Array Fail Unit3000Single Office Fan Fail6000Single Lab Fan Failure3000Single Critical Fan Failure600Pump Failure600Fan/Pump VFD Common Alarm1800600Fan Filter846003600Fan Temperature 60060Fan/Pump Pressure (Static/DP)30060Fan AirFlow72003600VAV Room Temperature60060VAV AirFlow3600600Leak Detector6010Freeze Detector6010 Alarm Syntax: • Alarm syntax shall be structured as follows: o Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm, Contact Shop  Note for “Contact Shop”, for Manhattan Main campus use the shops listed below. For Real Estate properties, Long Island Main Campus, Brooklyn Main Campus and LOH contact the facilities managers for proper shop designations. o Example: **** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm Contact Building Automation Shop • Return to Normal syntax shall be structured as follows: o Return to Normal (Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm) o Example: Return to Normal (**** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 549 2024 • Priority Designation: o ***** 5 Star Alarms:  Animal Facility/Vivarium Related Alarms  Animal Facility/Vivarium Fan failures, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Labs ABSL 3 Fan Failures, Space Temp/Humidity, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Fan Failures Affecting Operating Room, Isolation Rooms, Protective Environment Rooms (Fans include air handling unit supply, return, and exhaust fans)  Emergency Power Related Alarms  Medical Air System Alarms  Compressed Air Systems  Procedure Rooms Alarms  Data Center Alarms o **** 4 Star Alarms:  OR Temperature and Humidity Alarms  OR Fan System Failures  OR Reheat System Alarms  Sump Pit Overflow Alarms  Ejector Pit Overflow Alarms o *** 3 Star Alarms:  Vacuum System Alarms  General Reheat and Perimeter Space Alarms  General Lab Fan Failure Alarms  Sump Pit Alarms  Ejector Pit Alarms  Walk In Box Alarms o ** 2 Star Alarms:  Office Fan Failure Alarms  General Lab Temperature and Humidity Alarms  General Lab Airflow Alarm o Non Critical Alarms:  Office Temperature and Humidity Alarms • Critical vs. Non Critical: o The designation “Critical” shall be included in the alarm syntax only for 2, 3, 4, and 5 star alarms. For all other alarms not listed above, the designation “Non Critical” shall be used. • Building Abbreviations (for NYULH Manhattan Main Campus only): o Alumni Hall ALH o Berg BRG o Coles Student Laboratory Coles o Energy Building EB o Greenberg Hall GBH o Medical Science Building MSB o Millhauser Mil o Tisch Hospital TH NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 550 2024 o Schwartz Health Care Center HCC o Science Building SB o Skirball Institute Skirball o Smilow Research Center SRC o Kimmel Pavilion KP • Floor: o Identify floor where alarm is active (e.g., 2nd Floor, Lobby, roof) • System: o Utilize equipment tag or designation (e.g., AC3 7, AHU TH 18 1, Walk In Box Room 225, Filtration Water Holding Tank) • Alarm: o Identify actual device in alarm (e.g., Cooling Tower Trip Alarm, Fan Failure Alarm, Common Alarm, High Humidity Alarm). • Contact Shop (for NYULH Manhattan Main Campus only): o Building Automation Shop  All BMS Related Communication Alarms and Outages  All BMS AHU, VAV, HW System Alarms (Energy to Reassign Post Control Signal Confirmation/Verification)  All BMS AHU Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop)  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop) o HVAC Shop  All CHW FCU Related Alarms  All Pneumatic Related Alarms  All HVAC (AHU, FCU) Filter Related Alarms  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  All Low and Medium Steam Pressure Alarms, including HW System DP Alarms  All AHU Related Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  Building Engineers  All CHW Plant Related Alarms Building to reassign these alarms when applicable  All Fire System Alarms  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All High Steam Pressure Alarms  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Plumbing Shop is Primary) o Plumbing Shop  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Pump Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Medical Air System Alarms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 551 2024 o House Electricians  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Power Related Alarms o Refrigeration Shop  All DX AC/AHU related Alarms, including DX FCU’s  All Walk In Box Alarms  Refrigeration system cooling towers o Note: The term “dual assignment” means two (2) “shops” are assigned to these alarms. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Nursing • The BMS shall automatically generate alarms, via e mail to IPC and Nursing based on operating room humidity levels and pressurization level. E mail addresses shall be provided by the Facility Management Team. • Operating Room Humidity Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a humidity level either below RH or above RH, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. o If the humidity level continues to remain either below RH or above RH for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an email alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Operating Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. Note: Entrance door must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Protective Environment Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Isolation Room, Central Sterilizer, Bone Marrow, Air Locks, Vestibules, BSL3 Labs, etc.) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. The respective NYULH shop will be required to respond within 30 minutes. Note: Each door serving the room must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 552 2024 ii. Trends General Requirements: • Trends shall be established for each hardwired and software generated point associated with a system. For each project, trends shall be identified as critical or non critical trends by the Facility Management Team. Trend Point Collection: • Trends shall be stored for a minimum of 5 years prior to being overwritten. • Each trended point shall be supported by collection point hardware capable of storing a minimum quantity of trend samples for each point before any samples are overwritten. Where controllers do not have this capability due to either the number of trended points or inability to store trends, provide additional controllers to provide the required trend storage and memory capabilities. • Transmission between the point of collection device (DDC controller) and the trend storage device is critical. Each trend shall have its buffer size (the value at which the controllers sends its stored trend data to the collection software) set to a value equal to the smaller of either four (4) times the trend rate (i.e., the amount of samples per hour) or a maximum quantity of samples which. Under no circumstances shall the buffer value be set to more than the maximum quantity of samples. • Each time the buffer reaches its sample limit, the entire volume of software samples stored in the controller shall be sent. The collection software shall review the data and eliminate duplicate values (i.e., previous values already sent which have been successfully received at the collection software). • Critical trends shall have a software routine included (separate from the “standard” trending software) that regularly monitors the trend data and alerts the user when expected trend data has not been received. For each trend, provide a software routine that shall monitor the last received trend point’s time stamp and identify when it has “aged” sufficiently to generate an alarm. Aging limit shall be exceeded when the last data point in the trend has a time stamp which is greater than two (2) times the value of the buffer size divided by the trend rate. This software routine cannot reside in the DDC controller which is the collection device for this data set. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 553 2024 Analog Trend Points: • The following analog type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval or change of value passed a percentage of the sensor’s maximum value: o Space temperature  Non critical space: 5 minute interval as standard  Critical space: Change of value every 1 °F or 0.5°C o Space differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint (e.g. record COV every 0.05 in. change of a space with a 1 in. setpoint) o Air handling unit supply, return, mixed air and preheat coil discharge air temperature o Change of value every of setpointAir handling unit supply and return air humidity  Change of value every of maximum value (rh) o Air handling unit supply, return and outdoor airflow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Duct static pressures  Change of value every % of setpoint o Water temperatures  Change of value every of setpoint o Water systems differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint o Water flow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Btu meters (5 minutes as standard) o Set points, associated process variables and control signals (Note: sample rate based on variables listed above) o UPS voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o PDU voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o Distribution board voltage per phase, current per phase, kW output Digital Trend Points: • The following digital type points shall be trended based on change of state/value: o Run status (e.g., pump, fan, air conditioning unit, chiller, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Safety device (e.g., pressure switch, freezestat, leak detector, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Dry contact input from third party equipment such as packaged air conditioning unit common alarm contact (10 minutes as standard) o Door contact associated with room pressure monitors (10 minutes as standard) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 554 2024 Controller Data Trend Points: • The following status/data points shall be trended based on change of state: o Controller online/offline status o Controller reboot iii. Controller Network a. RS 485 Networks • Communication loops shall always be daisy chained in a line topology and shall not be T tapped or spliced in anyway • Unique MAC address and Device ID for each controller on the network. • A repeater after every 31 devices or after 2000 feet (whichever is reached first), and at each brand of a network comprised of multiple manufacturers/product types • Have one of the following in order to prevent signal distortions due to echoing and add bias: o A BT485 biasing terminator at each end (unless the segment is less than 10 feet long) o A ½ watt, 120 ohm terminator at each end iv. Controller Network Hierarchy General • The system architecture shall consist of a network of independent, stand alone direct BACnet I/P based digital control units and BACnet MSTP unitary controllers communicating over a two tier local area network. Each control unit shall perform all specified control functions independently, including scheduling, alarming and storage of trend data. Failure of one (1) control unit shall have no effect upon any other unit in the network. • Each direct digital control unit shall communicate with each other and with the existing servers. The DDC units, servers and workstations shall interface to the main communication network via multiple multi port managed communication switches. • To minimize network traffic and promote network health, point mapping shall be conducted as follows: o All direct mapping of networked points shall be through a main control router/global controller. o Direct peer to peer point mapping from controller to controller shall only be accepted if:  Controllers are on the same network bus.  No control router is present between controllers. o Outside Air point mapping: The outside air network points shall be pushed out (broadcast out) to all controllers with programming referencing these points. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 555 2024 v. Controller Network Protocols • Communication protocol between servers, workstations, DDC and unitary controllers shall utilize ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet. No manufacturer variations to ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet published communication protocol standards and rules will be accepted. Each BACnet communication alarm and subscription services shall be configured as Confirmed service or Unicast transmission. • For MS/TP communication efficiency, the following requirement must be adhered to: o All Devices must have a unique MAC ID and Device Instance. o All Software device instance are unique on the entire network. o Baud Rate must be the same of all devices including repeaters for given MS/TP trunk. o COV (Change of Value) Increment shall be set on ALL Analog Input and Value parameters with a number no less than 1. o Max Master on ALL Global Controllers shall be set according to Highest Node on MS/TP network trunk + 3. o EOL (End of Line) terminators shall be places on each end of a MS/TP trunk. Terminators resistance shall be determined by the BMS vendor recommended standard. No intermediate device shall have an EOL. o Voltage Polarity of RS 485 communication cable shall confirmed before adding additional controllers/devices. o MS/TP total length of twisted pair communication cable shall be less than 4000 ft. with 18 AWG, less than 2000 ft. with 22 AWG o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as 24 VAC power o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as conductors driven by Binary Outputs. o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run near electrical motors and only inside VFD plastic enclosures o Separate MS/TP communication loops shall be utilized for different equipment manufacturers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 556 2024 vi. Integrations General • OEM equipment identified below shall be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP; however, the BMS is capable of communicating via other industry standard protocols such as Modbus. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the equipment, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. o Equipment provider will be responsible for equipment start up and to verify that communication to BMS is established and functional. The BATC Contractor must participate with the start up to ensure proper communications. o On completion of the interface, the interface shall be demonstrated to the NYULH Facility Management Team and issues identified after start up demonstration will require corrective action by the responsible party. vii. Naming a. Point Naming • All point naming conventions shall be reviewed and accepted by the Facilities Management Team prior to being implemented. • Each point name shall consist of the following components: o First two or three letter prefix = building identification.  Controls contractor shall confirm with the Facilities Management Team that the building prefix is unique and the convention does not already exist. o The next two or three letter or numerals = Equipment Identification o The last two or three letters = Device identification o Example: KP_HX1_SWT or KPHX1SWT = Kimmel Pavilion_Heat Exchanger 1_Supply Water Temperature b. Controller Addressing • IP addresses shall be coordinated during the submittal stage of the project. BATC contractor shall discuss with MCIT and Control leads for the specific site address. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 557 2024 viii. Hardware Interlocks a. Safety Circuit Engineering • Safety devices (i.e., low temperature detectors, high pressure switches, low pressure switches, life safety shutdown relay contacts) shall be wired to starters and/or VFD’s such that equipment will stop regardless if operating in hand, automatic, manual, or bypass. • All safeties serving a variable frequency drive or starter (i.e., low temperature thermostat, fire shutdown contact, pressure switch, end switch, etc.,) must be wired to a terminal strip outside of the VFD/starter, in a standard, labeled enclosure where voltage readings can be taken to facilitate troubleshooting. Each safety should be wired to an individual pair of terminals and labeled as to what safety it is. In addition, all safeties must have individual auxiliary contact wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring. In lieu of a separate enclosure, it is acceptable to utilize the DDC field equipment panel. • All systems requiring interlock wiring shall be hardwired interlocked and shall not rely on the BMS to operate. Interlock wiring shall be run in separate conduits from BMS associated wiring. Examples: o Emergency generator to fuel oil pump interlock, emergency generator damper interlock, etc. o Motorized damper interlock to fan starter. b. Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. ix. HMI/Graphics General Requirements: • The project team shall reach out to the site specific NYULH Controls Manager for typical BMS graphics. • Dynamic graphics shall be created for each system interfaced with the building management system. • Summary graphics shall be created for systems as described herein. Summary graphics shall be updated, on a per project basis, as modifications are made to each respective system. The summary graphics are intended to be live documents that continue to evolve as various systems are added, removed and/or modified. • Where air handling or water systems serve areas other than Mechanical Equipment Rooms, provide dynamic color floor plan displays indicating the area served. The displays shall include all physical and virtual points associated with the respective system. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 558 2024 • The graphical interface shall allow users to access system schematics, floor plans, summary graphics, “as built” documentation, operation and maintenance manuals via a hierarchal graphical penetration scheme and menu selection. • Colors shall be used to indicate the status of points (e.g., RED = alarm, GREEN = normal) and these colors shall change as the status of the equipment changes. Provide a software program that shall notify the operator that a point has been placed in operator override. Notification shall be identified on the respective system graphic. • Dynamic temperature values, humidity values, flow values and status indication shall automatically update to represent current conditions without operator intervention and without predefined screen refresh rates. • All values displayed on the graphics shall include appropriate engineering units. • Values/icons for points which are placed in an override or locked state by an operator command shall clearly be identified and displayed in a manner that the operator can identify these locked points. • Performance overviews shall be provided for each building totaling its actual energy usage with a detailed comparison to its expected usage, on a month by month basis, as well as an annual basis. Sitewide Main Page shall contain the following: • Site map with links to each individual building. • Link to each campus summary graphic. • Common Critical Data: o Outdoor air temperature o Outdoor air humidity o Outdoor air CO2 o Outdoor air enthalpy o Outdoor air dewpoint. Individual Building Main Page: • Graphics should be organized by building and floor with links to all the equipment that serves that floor on the graphics link. • Each building shall be presented with an individual main page. The main page shall consist of the following: o Link to the sitewide main page o Link to each respective floor plan of the building o Link to building summary graphics for each of the following systems:  Condenser water system and all connected equipment (i.e., packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Chilled water system and all connected equipment (i.e., air handling units, packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 559 2024  Air handling unit relevant data such as run status, supply temperature, static pressure, and active alarm (tabular format).  Supply, return and exhaust duct distribution and all connected equipment (single line format).  VAV box relevant data such as temperature set point, actual temperature and list of rooms served. (Tabular Format).  Electrical distribution system, inclusive of all electrical status, alarm and metering points (single line format).  Environmental boxes, refrigerators and freezers (tabular format).  Instrument air systems pressure readings, interconnections, risers, branch piping, isolation valves.  Communication network indicating all controllers, wiring configurations, controller addresses, controller location. Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, VAV summary graphic should contain the AHU and reheat water system links. o Individual links to each piece of equipment and/or system within each group. All graphics must show the name of the system and its service area. All systems that serve the system illustrated on the graphic, must be identified and linked to. For example, if a fan system provides the outside air delivered to a fan coil unit, the fan system tag must be identified at the outdoor air intake on the graphic. If a system serves VAV boxes, this must be indicated on the system graphic with a link to the VAV boxes provided. o Refer to the Reference Section for sample graphic indicating a typical floor plan. Location Summary Graphics: • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, chilled water system summary graphic should contain links to each chilled water system. • Campus summary graphics shall be a compiled building system overviews. The campus single lines will be the summation of the building single line drawings. All systems should be grouped together with similar systems in a building. If there are no other similar systems in the building a new overview shall be started for that system with LED alarm bringing you to that page in the event of a critical alarm. NO GRAPHICS SHALL BE GROUPED OR LABELED “miscellaneous”. • Summary graphics shall be updated as the systems they represent are modified. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 560 2024 Floor Plans: • Floor plans shall display air and piping distribution systems in single line format. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment located on the floor (i.e., exhaust fans, air conditioning units, VAV boxes, environmental boxes, etc.) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment that is not located on the floor, but serves the floor (i.e., air handling units, exhaust fans and water systems) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall show dynamic variable monitoring space conditions (i.e., temperature, humidity, CO2, room pressures, etc.) in actual field installed location of sensing device. • Floor plans to indicate latest room numbers. Equipment: • Each individual equipment graphic shall include the following links: o Sitewide main page o Individual building main page o Each floor served by the equipment o Summary graphic associated with the system • For example: Air handling unit graphic is to include links to the following summary graphics: o Chilled water system o Steam or hot water system o VAV box summary system o Network communications • At the top of each graphic, indicate the equipment tag, location and what it serves (e.g., AHU TH 2 1, 2nd Floor MER, Floors 3 7) • Individual equipment graphics shall indicate all input/outputs points associated with the system. Points shall be shown in the appropriate locations. • Set point increments shall be defaulted as follows. Any modifications must be approved by the Facility Management Team. o Temperature: 1°F o Humidity: RH o Static Pressure: 0.1 in w.c. o Airflow: 100 cfm o Water flow: 50 gpm o Water differential pressure: 2 psig • Individual equipment graphics shall include links to graphic page of all points monitored via third party equipment interface. For example, provide link for display page of all data points associated with variable frequency drive. • Graphics shall clearly indicate the fail state positions for all BMS controlled devices. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 561 2024 x. Reports General Requirements: • Reports shall be generated on demand or via a predefined schedule. Predefined Reports: • The following predefined reports shall be created and updated as modifications are made to the respective equipment and/or facility: o Controller Online/Offline Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, online/offline status.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Controller Reboot Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, quantity of reboots and time of occurrence.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Equipment Uptime (per Building):  Report to include equipment tag, location, required uptime, actual uptime.  Report generated automatically on a monthly basis. o Operating Room Humidity:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location, humidity level over 24 hour period (highest, average, lowest).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Operating Room Pressurization:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location and pressurization level over 24 hour period (positive, neutral, negative).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Domestic Hot Water Temperature (per Building):  Report to include: Common supply water temperature Monthly hours Hours in Compliance (98 117.5°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (117.5 120°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (120 125°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (125 200°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (90 98°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (80 90°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (35 80°F) Identified by total hours and percentage NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 562 2024  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period o Room Pressurization (per Building Not Including Operating Rooms):  Report to include room tag, location, required pressurization mode, actual pressurization mode.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperature (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water temperature transmitter tag, location, actual temperature (highest, average and lowest). Note: Temperature data referenced in this report is only specific to each chiller plant’s common chilled water supply and return temperature.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Differential Pressure (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water differential pressure transmitter tag, location, actual pressure (highest, average and lowest). Note: Differential pressure data referenced in this report is only specific to each transmitter located in the campus chilled water loop.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. I. References i. Network Architecture a. BMS Network Architecture shall be reviewed by RED+F and MCIT b. Wherever possible, network architecture shall employ a Zone and Conduit strategy as per IASC99 ISA/ IEC 62443 series of standards ii. BMS IT Architecture and Remote Access Requirements • Architecture and remote access requirements shall be coordinated during the submittal stage of the project. BATC contractor shall discuss with MCIT and Control leads for the specific site address. END OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 565 2024 CLOSE OUT PACKAGE At the end of a project, close out packages are to be completed and submitted to RED+F per the Substantial Completion and Project Closeout Checklists shown below. The goal is to have all projects closed 120 days after the first user has moved in. The A/E Team shall request the latest version of these checklists from the RED+F PM at time of close out. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 566 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 567 2024 PHOTOGRAPHY The RED+F Project Manager shall engage a professional photographer pre approved by the Design Studio to photograph the project after construction is complete and before move in. The cost of this shall be included in the Project Budget. A professional photographer may also be engaged by the Architect to photograph the project. The Architect shall request pre approval from NYU Langone Health of the photographer they wish to use. The RED+F PM and GC/CM shall allocate sufficient time in the schedule to professionally photograph the project. The time shall be clearly shown on the project schedule. The length of time needed will be based on the size and scope of the project. At a minimum two days will be allocated for spaces up to 50,000 GSF. One more day shall be allocated for each additional 50,000 GSF. Final photography must be scheduled as follows:  After construction is complete and no contractors are on the premises  After final cleaning has occurred  Before any move in preparation has begun All the major public spaces and architecturally important components shall be photographed sufficiently to show the scope of the project. Final high resolution files shall be provided to the Design Studio at RED+F via the RED+F PM. Below are a few examples: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 568 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 569 2024 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS RED+F is continually seeking to improve the Design and Construction process of the built environment and has established a Built Environment Improvement Cycle. The cycle, which consists of Design Construction Occupancy Evaluation and back to Design, allows for continual improvement of the built environment by establishing a Post Occupancy Evaluation phase. The Post Occupancy Evaluation phase occurs after the users have moved in and utilized the space for a certain period of time, typically about a year. The intent of the Post Occupancy Evaluation is to provide feedback on the design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The RED+F Design Studio performs the Post Occupancy Evaluation. It is important the same group perform the evaluation in order to maintain a consistent basis of analysis between projects. Results of Post Occupancy Evaluations are then used to inform Project Teams and update the Design Guidelines. For example, materials and furniture that are not holding up well are removed from the Design Guidelines. Materials and furniture that are not part of the Design Guidelines but were approved for a particular project and have been holding up well are considered for inclusion in the Design Guidelines. This process reduces maintenance costs and streamlines the Design process. Built Environment Improvement Cycle DesignConstructionOccupancyEvaluationNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 570 2024 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATION FORM The intent of the Design Post Occupancy Evaluation Form is to provide feedback on the overall design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The information will be used to continually update the Design Guidelines.