Page 1 of 26 Health Equity Impact Assessment SECTION A. SUMMARY 1. Title of project NYU LH Schwartz HCC Renovations 3rd Floor Transplant 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Lisa Bowleg, PhD, MA • Melissa Corrado, MBA 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has more than 25 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with 20 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is a professor and Chair of the Department of Urban Education at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health equity. Lisa Bowleg is a national leader in health equity and intersectionality. She has more than 20 years of experience applying intersectionality to health equity research and practice. She is the founder and president of the Intersectionality Training Institute and a professor in applied social psychology and social Page 2 of 26 and behavioral sciences at the George Washington University. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 1/8/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 3/21/2024 7. Executive summary of project The Applicant’s proposed project is to relocate and consolidate transplant services for heart, lung, and liver to a single space at their main campus (550 First Ave, New York NY). The clinics where patients are currently seen are Rivergate (401 E. 34th Street, New York NY) and White Building (317 E. 34th Street, New York NY), which are 384 feet and 528 feet, respectively, from main campus. As a result of this relocation, patients in need of a transplant will receive evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits all in one designated space, rather than they and their care partners having to go to multiple sites. During their appointments, patients and their care partners will sit in one room while the care team, consisting of transplant psychiatrists, nurse educators, financial counselors, nutritionists, physicians, and surgeons, rotate through as needed. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) Based on our assessment, we are confident that this project will greatly benefit the medically underserved groups—and all patients—who receive heart, lung, and liver transplant services at the NYU Langone Health Transplant Institute. The consolidation of services and the rotating services in a single place is a gold standard of care for people with serious health conditions and who need care and services over time. It eliminates significant barriers and burdens related to access to care and services and improves health equity, particularly for low income people who do not have the luxury of taking multiple days off of work and losing income; older people and people with disabilities and health limitations for whom any travel is difficult; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency who need to arrange interpretation services and/or are not familiar with New York City. The project also increases the likelihood of patients receiving all the care and services they need, which we expect improve health outcomes. Those who we engaged for input overwhelmingly agreed that it would ease physical challenges, lift some of the emotional weight of being a transplant patient or donor, increase follow up adherence, and reduce exposure to Page 3 of 26 pathogens, among other benefits. Our assessment also showed that the Applicant has a robust infrastructure and processes for monitoring health equity and disparities and communicating the change. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area: Complete the “Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2” in the document “HEIA Data Tables”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance about what each Scoping Table Sheet requires. See Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2 in the “Transplant HEIA Scoping Sheets” document. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project:  Low income people  Racial and ethnic minorities  Immigrants  Women  Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people  People with disabilities  Older adults  Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition  Persons living in rural areas  People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits  People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage  Other people who are unable to obtain health care  Not listed (specify): 3. For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? Page 4 of 26 We leveraged the Applicant’s internal data and the NYULH Transplant Institute’s direct knowledge of the patient population to identify the medically underserved groups that would be impacted by the project. While robust internal data is collected, it did not reflect immigrant or disability status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Immigrants American Community Survey, 2021 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people NYSDOH Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey, 2021 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2021 • Older adults internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 Overall, a combination of internal and external data sources was used to identify the medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project. Although the BRFS Survey provided some information related to LGBTQ+ people, we were unable to filter data by county or zip code due to limitations of the data set. 4. How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Those navigating the NYULH Transplant Institute’s clinics on a typical day include patients undergoing initial evaluation, those on waitlists, those who are post transplant, and care partners. Depending on the organ system impacted, patients are seen at a variety of clinical locations for evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits. Currently, patients and care partners must further go to different hospital locations to access ancillary services, including lab services, radiology, etc. The proposed project will relocate and consolidate transplant services for heart, lung, and liver by relocating them to a single space at the main campus (550 First Ave, New York NY). The clinics where patients are currently seen are Rivergate (401 E. 34th Street, New York NY) and White Building (317 E. 34th Street, New York NY), which are 384 feet and 528 feet, respectively, from main campus. As a result of this relocation, patients in need of a transplant will receive evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits all in one designated space, rather than having to go to multiple sites. During their appointments, patients and their care partners will sit in one room while the care team, Page 5 of 26 consisting of transplant psychiatrists, nurse educators, financial counselors, nutritionists, physicians, and surgeons, rotate through as needed. The proposed changes will improve the patient experience for all medically underserved groups by facilitating patients’ access to necessary services and reducing the need to navigate among clinical areas. Even though the existing clinics are close to each other, this project will eliminate challenges that can serve as barriers to care, including navigating between buildings, scheduling multiple appointments, and coordinating multiple aspects of care. We expect that the greatest positive impact of the relocation of services will be experienced by: • Low income people who will not have to schedule multiple appointments on multiple days, which could reduce loss of income due to missing work. • Older adults and people with disabilities—for whom traveling even short distances can be difficult—who will not have to navigate between sites. • Immigrants, particularly those with Limited English Proficiency, who will not have to arrange interpretation services at multiple sites or, for those not from the US, are not familiar with how to navigate New York City. The stakeholders we engaged spoke positively about how this project would alleviate the physical and emotional burden of attending appointments in multiple locations. As one stakeholder said, “I support moving forward with the project. I think it might minimize the number of separate visits that patients have to coordinate and schedule and come and spend money to travel there and spend energy if they’re not feeling good.” We do not expect that any single group will be adversely affected by this project. 5. To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? Of the patients seen by NYULH’s Transplant Institute within the service area in 2022, relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment (with Medicaid as primary source of payment serving as a proxy for low income population), identified as racial or ethnic minorities, and identified as women. Although the Applicant expects that improvements to patient satisfaction will attract new patients to NYULH, it is anticipated that service utilization by all medically underserved groups will remain constant following the relocation of transplant services. Page 6 of 26 As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to immigrants and LGBTQ+ populations. Therefore, the Independent Entity is unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to these groups. 6. What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? The following hospitals are licensed to provide transplant services in the NY Metro Area (Source: https://profiles.health.ny.gov/hospital/#5.79/42.868/ 76.809) Hospital Location Transplant Designation Long Island Jewish Medical Center Queens Kidney Montefiore Medical Center Bronx Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver Mount Sinai Hospital Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver NYP Columbia Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver NYP NY Weill Cornell Manhattan Adult Heart, Kidney, Liver NYU Langone Hospitals Center Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver University Hospital Brooklyn Brooklyn Kidney, Liver North Shore University Hospital Long Island Nassau Adult Heart, Kidney, Liver Stony Brook University Hospital Long Island Suffolk Kidney Westchester Medical Center Westchester Kidney 7. What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? For the purposes of this project, market share is defined as the pool of transplant recipients residing within New York State (NYS) or within the project service area defined as Kings, New York, Nassau, and Queens counties. According to transplant volume data from the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) and United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), the Applicant held on average of the NYS transplant market from 2016 through 2023. Of the transplant centers within the service area, the Applicant held on average market share between 2016 and 2023 in terms of total volume of transplant procedures performed. The following tables demonstrate NYS adult and pediatric transplant volumes by calendar year, NYS adult and pediatric transplant volumes by market share, adult Page 7 of 26 and pediatric transplant volume by market share for the service area, and transplant growth year over year. Page 8 of 26 Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew York414441458487429538538581NYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew York146202289356320478600576NYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew York399389391370423515543552NYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew York260240307343262334297372NYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassau346511613396152234355NYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronx262245289334244318348346NYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroe126127159170192214202212NYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchester95104162125150189193161NYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErie128138144127134147148151NYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondaga1097811360619210594NYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolk8180816788897364NYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKings395853163436160NYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbany5460517573303634NYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronx15488201115NYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau 67106877Total Volume 21482238262426812489316733963580Service Area1 Volume 12921401162117151539206822802503Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew YorkNYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew YorkNYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew YorkNYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew YorkNYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassauNYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronxNYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroeNYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchesterNYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErieNYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondagaNYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolkNYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKingsNYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbanyNYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronxNYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew YorkNYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew YorkNYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew YorkNYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew YorkNYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassauNYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKingsNYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)2016 20172017 20182018 20192019 20203 2020 20212021 20222022 20232016 2023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew York NYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew York NYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew York NYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew York NYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassau NYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronx NYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroe NYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchester NYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErie NYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondaga NYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolk NYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKings NYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbany NYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronx NYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau NYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Volumes by CY1 Service Area defined as transplant centers located in Kings, New York Nassau, and Queens counties, highlighted in light purple.2 Value reflects comparison of Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical Center transplant volume from program inception in 2017 to 2023.3 Decrease in volume from 2019 to 2020 attributed to policies implemented to address the COVID 19 pandemic.Source: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024NYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Growth YOYSource: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Growth of Transplant Volume (All Facilities in NYS)Growth of Transplant Volume (All Facilities in Service Area1)Total Market ShareService Area1 Market ShareNYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Market Shares by CY Service Area1Source: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Total Service Area1 Market ShareNYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Market Shares by CYSource: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Page 9 of 26 Overall, transplant volume increased by in New York State between 2016 (2,148 procedures) and 2023 (3,580 procedures). Transplant volume increased in the service area by with 1,292 procedures performed in 2016 compared to 2,503 in 2023. Although all facilities in the service area experienced increased volume during this time period, the two facilities with the greatest increases include North Shore University Hospital/Northwell Health () and NYU Langone Health (). Although it is difficult to project future market share due to a variety of factors, the Applicant has a stated goal of making transplant services accessible to all, including by integrating into communities to meet patients where they are and by exploring innovative ways to expand the donor pool. The Applicant stated that they are working to increase their future market share by partnering with health networks in underserved communities to offer transplant evaluations and additional services to patients who were previously unable to access culturally competent care through the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program described in Step 4, Question 1. They are also spearheading xenotransplantation research to identify novel sources for donor organs in the future, and the Transplant Institute continues to develop new protocols to ensure that as many available organs are transplanted as possible. 8. Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to NYULH, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit healthcare system, NYULH’s stated mission above all is to provide the highest quality healthcare that patients deserve. NYULH provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay, and NYULH has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. In addition, NYULH offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23 (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement NYULH received for that care in FY23). The NYULH Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). NYULH’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Page 10 of 26 Description of the number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in this facility compared to the total number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in the region. NYULH is projecting that of visits at the transplant clinic will be for Medicaid patients in year one (total payor mix includes Medicare, Commercial, Medicaid, and other). According to US Census data, at the New York state level, the payer mix in 2022 was 42. public health insurance coverage (19. Medicare alone or in combination and 28. Medicaid alone or in combination), 65. private health insurance coverage, and 4. uninsured. Description of how this compares to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents for this facility compared to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents in the region. N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 9. Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. No negative impacts are expected. Due to the nature of the project being service relocation, no physician or professional staffing issues are expected. Since there will be no changes to the services offered as a result of the project, no staffing changes are needed. However, patients and care partners interviewed expressed an expected positive result, namely the potential for experiencing greater continuity of care by making it more likely that patients would see the same care team and staff if all in one location. 10. Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. Following is a summary of civil rights access complaints against the Applicant, including date of complaint filing, a summary of the complaint, and the current status of the complaint. Civil Rights Access Complaints against NYULH (not specific to Transplant Institute): • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation:  1 related to disability access Page 11 of 26  2 related to gender discrimination • 10 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed  5 related to disability discrimination  1 related to national origin discrimination  2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color  1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation 11. Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. No. There are no similar projects have been undertaken by the Transplant Institute in the past five years. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a. Improve access to services and health care b. Improve health equity c. Reduce health disparities Since transplant services cut across all patient groups, there will be a positive impact on each medically underserved group identified in Step 1, Question 2 with some additional benefits for some groups. a. Co locating the liver, heart, and lung transplant teams with transplant psychiatry, nutrition, and other services as described in Question 1.4 is expected to improve access to services and healthcare. Housing the range of services needed by patients who need organ transplants in a single space while also ensuring that patients can be seen by multiple providers during each visit increases the likelihood that patients will receive all the services suggested by the care team and have better health outcomes. b. As per the Office of Health Equity and Human Rights, “health equity means achieving the highest level of health for all people and shall entail focused efforts to address avoidable inequalities by equalizing conditions for health for those who have experienced injustices, socioeconomic disadvantages, and systemic disadvantages. Health equity is about addressing the needs experienced by individuals and communities.” (Source: https://www.health.ny.gov/community/health_equity/) While co locating services will likely benefit and equalize conditions for among patients and Page 12 of 26 care partners because it removes the burden of having to navigate among locations and schedule and go to multiple appointments. Removing this burden will likely improve health equity for medically underserved groups who experience the greatest burden, namely, low income people who will not have to risk losing income due to missed work; older adults and people with disabilities for whom any travel can be difficult; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency who need to arrange interpretation services for each appointment or, for those not from the US, are not familiar with how to navigate New York City. c. According to the Office of Health Equity and Human Rights, “health disparities means measurable differences in health status, access to care, and quality of care as determined by race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, a preferred language other than English, gender expression, disability status, aging population, immigration status, and socioeconomic status.” (Source: https://www.health.ny.gov/community/health_equity/) As above, the project may reduce health disparities if all patients, including those most burdened by the current state, are able to receive more of the recommended care and services due to the relocation and consolidation of services. 2. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. There are no unintended negative impacts to health equity expected as a result of the project. There are the positive impacts described in response to Question 2.1.b and 2.1.c, including improving health equity and reducing health disparities by equalizing conditions for health for all patients, improving access to care, and reducing barriers and burdens to care and services for some medically underserved groups, specifically low income people; older people; people with disabilities and health limitations; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency and lack of familiarity with New York City. In addition to the impacts already stated, we expect the renovation, accessible space will also solve some of the access issues we heard from patients who use wheelchairs. It is possible that consolidating service sin a single location could improve language access for people with Limited English Proficiency since there are fewer arrangements that need to be made to have interpretation services available. We also expect the cost of transportation for patients will decrease since they will need to come to fewer visits. As we heard from patients, that will be reduce a significant barrier for low income people. Page 13 of 26 3. How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. Following a review of the Applicant’s projected budget, the amount of indigent care the Applicant provides is not projected to change. The project will simply relocate the current services that are offered for liver, lung, and heart transplants and as such, it is not anticipated that the implementation of this project will impact the amount of indigent care provided. In FY23, NYULH contributed $93 million in charity care. 4. Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant's service(s) or care if the project is implemented. The access by public and private transportation is expected to remain unchanged if the project is implemented. As the project will move clinic locations to the main hospital campus (less than ~600 feet away), it is anticipated that patients will use the same public transportation options to get to their appointments. According to the Applicant, patients currently use a wide variety of transportation options. Some patients use private transportation and are accompanied by family members and other caretakers. For these patients, the hospital’s campus offers valet parking at the main entrance, which is not available at the current off site transplant clinics. Some patients may take public transportation such as subway, bus, and ferry, and some use Access A Ride Paratransit Services, provided by the MTA. For those taking the subway, the closest MTA Subway station will remain the 6 train at 33rd Street. The M34 and M34A Select Bus Service stops at 34th Street and 1st Avenue, in close proximity to both the current clinic sites and the hospital campus. The buses also make a stop at the East 34th Street Pier, which can accommodate travelers from the New York City ferry. The Applicant also has a process for patients who need to get to and from their appointments but are unable to cover the cost. In these cases, the hospital organizes and supports the cost of transportation to ensure they can access their care in a safe and timely manner. This is available to patients who express a need, regardless of their income status. 5. Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. As previously described, patients seen by the Transplant Institute for lung, heart, and liver transplants must currently navigate between multiple buildings and clinical areas to Page 14 of 26 receive necessary care. The proposed relocation of services into one space will reduce architectural barriers by eliminating patients’ need to navigate between multiple spaces during evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits. According to the Applicant, alterations of buildings within the New York City including the proposed third floor Transplant Outpatient Clinic at NYU Langone Health’s Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) are governed by the Accessibility Chapter (Chapter 11) of the New York City Building Code. Per Chapter 11; sites, buildings, structures, facilities, elements, and spaces shall be designed and constructed to be accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with ICC A117.1 and the New York City Building Code. In compliance with Chapter 11 the Transplant Outpatient Clinic includes the following accessible elements: • An accessible arrival point in compliance with NYC BC 1104.1 • An accessible public entrance in compliance with NYC 1105.1 • An accessible route connecting spaces within the building including HCC 03 Transplant Outpatient Clinic per NYC BC 1104.3 • Accessible toilet rooms including family and/or assisted use toilets along the accessible route in compliance with NYC BC 1109.2 • Accessible drinking fountains (quench filtered water coolers) in compliance with NYC BC 1109.5 • Accessible seating at tables, counters, and work surfaces in compliance with NYC BC 1109.11 • Accessible controls, operating mechanisms, and hardware in compliance with NYC BC 1109.13 • Accessible signage in compliance with NYC BC 1111.1 6. Describe how implementation of the project will impact the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services, as that term is used in Public Health Law § 2599 aa, including contraception, sterility procedures, and abortion. How will the project impact the availability and provision of reproductive and maternal health care services in the service area? How will the Applicant mitigate any potential disruptions in service availability? N/A. The project does will have no impact on the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services. Meaningful Engagement 7. List the local health department(s) located within the service area that will be impacted by the project. Page 15 of 26 New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH) 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? We spoke with two individuals within the Bureau of Equitable Health Systems in the Center for Health Equity and Community Wellness at NYC DOHMH about the project. Max Hadler is the Director of Policy and Immigrant Initiatives, Health Care Access and Policy Unit. Emma Clippinger is the Director of Healthcare System Policy and Legal Strategy. Mr. Hadler expressed that the clearest benefit of the move is that it would place less of the burden of navigating and receiving services on the patient, the community member, or their support network. He noted that reducing the number of variables that people, especially people in a situation of being evaluated for a transplant, must take upon themselves the better. “The more places you have to go, it's like a multiplier effect for people who are already at a disadvantage in terms of navigating physical space, like language, for example, or physical disability…The idea of having everything on one medical campus sounds relatively better than having to travel all across town.” The move was identified as an opportunity to address language access barriers by making it more efficient for in person interpreters to support non English speaking patients. Mr. Hadler and Ms. Clippinger both raised broader transportation and access issues that this move may not address, such as the challenge of getting to the NYULH medical campus for transplant patients. Mr. Hadler noted that while conceptually, having things under one roof makes sense, he cautioned that it is important to ensure it is not pulling services from community settings that may be more conveniently located to a specific community that disproportionately tends to access those services and to ensure that patients understand services they are receiving and any related billing. We made three attempts, one during the interview and two via follow up emails, to obtain a verbatim statement from the DOHMH representatives but did not receive one. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders: Complete the “Meaningful Engagement” table in the document titled “HEIA Data Table”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance. See Meaningful Engagement table in HEIA Data Table attached. Page 16 of 26 10. Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern about the project or offered relevant input? As part of our meaningful engagement of stakeholders, we spoke with 13 stakeholders about the project. We conducted seven patient interviews; held two community conversations with CBO leaders, staff, and community members; and interviewed a social worker who works with the transplant community. Patients included lung, heart, and liver transplant recipients, including a double transplant recipient, and a living donor. One of our community conversations included the parent of a pediatric heart transplant patient. We spoke with five members of a racial and/or ethnic minority groups, two immigrants/refugees, two individuals identifying as LGBTQ+, two individuals over 65 years old, three people living with a disability, two people living in a rural area, four low income individuals, and four Medicaid recipients. The stakeholders most impacted by the project are transplant patients experiencing various health conditions pre and post transplant that make traveling to multiple locations for appointments challenging, low income