NON TUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIAL INFECTION EPIDEMIOLOGY & EVALUATION Pulmonary disease Non HIV Population DAVID L. KAMELHAR, M.D. CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE CO DIRECTOR: NYU BRONCHIECTASIS AND NTM PROGRAM NOVEMBER 2017 Epidemiology: The branch of medicine that deals with the incidence, distribution, and possible control of diseases • Updates re epidemiology of the disease • Many of you know much of this, but… • Understand why epidemiology is important in understanding the disease • Understand why epidemiology is important in evaluating the individual patient • Gain perspective on how the host factors are the pivotal factors in acquiring the infection GOALS OF TALK • Outline current evaluation algorithm Often multifactorial Emphasize importance of systematic evaluation • Evaluate the organism • Evaluate the patient • Implications of findings • Implications for management As always, a lot to cover! EVALUATION • Adjemian, Olivier, Seitz, Holland, Prevots, NIH. 2012 • Purpose: Assess prevalence of PNTM • Medicare claims 1997 2007 • Age 65+ • Annual prevalence rose from 20/100,000 to 47/ 100,000 • 8. per year increase • Women 1.4 more likely than men to be PNTM case than men EPIDEMIOLOGY: PREVALENCE DATA • Contacted all labs in Oregon performing mycobacterial cultures on all age Oregon residents • 2007 2012 • Defined “cases” of PNTM “disease” as those meeting ATS criteria of 2 or more positive cultures or one BAL specimen(more precise) • Median age was 69 years (0.9 97) • Female to male 56:44 • Under age 60 more likely male • Incidence increased with age • Prevalence increased slightly over interval (not significant) • MAC . M.abscessus/ chelonae PREVALENCE: POPULATION BASED Henkle, Winthrop, et al. 2015 • Studied distribution of patients with at least ONE positive culture • 2008 2013 • Maryland, Mississippi, Maryland, Wisconsin, Ohio • Prevalence rose 8.7 to 13.9 per 100,000 over that five year period • Mississippi: Cases greatest ages 80+ • Wisconsin: Cases greatest ages 60 69 PREVALENCE: FIVE STATES 2008 2013 Donohue et al. 2 16 Distribution of MAC by United State geographic region in PremierTM Healthcare Database, 2009 2013. • Significant geographic variation exists in the distribution of NTM species in the US • M. avium complex much more common in the South • M. abscessus in the West • ***Probable significant under coding of disease based in ICD 9 coding Geographic Distribution of NTM identified among Clinical Isolates in the US, 2009 2013 Spaulding, et al. Annals ATS 2017 • Reviewed study above of Ford noting that most patients ran into clinical trouble based on co morbidities rather than NTM • Studied country of origin of patients: M. fortuitum increased in Asian born M. lentiflavum increased in African born • Pathology specimens indicate that NTM reside in sub epithelia of small airways of bronchiectatic airways and biofilms THUS: Is it possible that individuals harbor organisms far longer than we think AND that they cause bronchiectasis? EPIDEMIOLOGY: ENVIRONMENTAL MYCOBACTERIAL LATENCY Schraufnagel, 2017 • Followed 369 patients with respiratory NTM isolates 2005 2006 • MAC • 35. died within 5 years • Slight increase in those meeting ATS criteria (> 2 positive cultures): 28.7 vs. 23.4 • Conclusions: Number of positive cultures does not correlate with outcome, i.e. “cases” do not do worse than non cases Most patients died from causes other than NTM EPIDEMIOLOGY: COURSE OF DISEASE Winthrop, et al. 2017 • Washington State NTM cultures 1998 2011 examined • Bronchiectasis most common co morbidity for NTM isolation • of 168 followed had one major co morbidity • 56 patients met ATS criteria for treatment; 22 treated; abscessus and kansasii • ***Mortality rate most often from co morbidities rather than from NTM OUTCOMES: RISK FACTORS AND SPECIES Ford, et al. 2017 Division Name or Footer 12 If you take care of your overall health, you are likely to do fine! IMPORTANT IMPLICATION • Reviewed in 2014 2015 patients with one or more isolates 2005 2006 • 172 patients studied. M. avium cases and non cases • had multiple pos. isolates; non cases became cases • cases and of baseline non cases were treated • Of those alive at 10 years, had persistence of positive CT findings had persistence of positive cultures Conclusion: It is usually a long term infection EPIDEMIOLOGY: LONG TERM OUTCOMES Henkle, Winthrop, et al. 2017 Division Name or Footer 14 EPIDEMIOLOGY II SOURCE OF THE ORGANISM • NTM are saprozoic organisms Grow within engineered water systems Less well understood Not human to human spread OPPP’S Opportunistic premise plumbing pathogens • The slimy film that coats all (non copper) pipes • All water mains, pipes leading to the home and in the home have them • All but impossible to eliminate BTW: Plastic rather than copper pipes proposed as a reason for uptick in NTM from showers, etc. BIOFILM • M. abscessus less adherent than • M. avium and M. intracellulare on surfaces BIOFILM AND NTM • High risk Highlands, FL 1.9 Santa Barbara, CA 2.0 New York, NY 2.7 Kalawao, HI 3.7 Plaquemines, LA 6.5 • Low risk Washington, RI 0.5 Iosco, MI 0.4 Roane, WV 0.4 RELATIVE RISK OF CLUSTERS OF PULMONARY NTM AMONG MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES “The process by which water is transferred from the land to the atmosphere by evaporation from the soil and other surfaces and by transpiration from plants” EVAPOTRANSPIRATION • Retrospective chart review 65 children in Florida • 21(32.) had 2+ positive sputum cultures NTM • 3 year follow up • CF patients who lived within 500 meters of water were 9.4 times more likely to have NTM • Perhaps a new in between level of water exposure: • Not the ambient climate and not the pipes in your house PREVALENCE: PROXIMITY TO WATER CF CHILDREN Bouso et al. 2016 • M. chimaera isolated from multiple patients who had undergone bypass procedures • Is it possible that non sterile water used in hospital heating and cooling devices can cause contamination and clinical infection EPIDEMIOLOGY: HOSPITAL ACQUIRED INFECTION Division Name or Footer 23 • Mycobacteria are from water biofilm • Ambient water and home water are both factors Hawaii and Louisiana “atmospheric” Plumbing “in your four walls” ****Living near a stream new level of concern • There is no true “safe haven from NTM; you just change the relative risk of which organism • The host factors seem to prevail • Play your cards right re overall health and you’ll do OK re NTM! EPIDEMIOLOGY CONCLUSIONS Division Name or Footer 24 EVALUATION • Source of the isolate Sputum Induced sputum Bronchoscopy • How many isolates? • How many organisms? • What are our expected findings? Per geography M.simiae • What other organisms are isolated? Pseudomonas? Aspergillus? EVALUATION: THE ORGANISM • M. avium Count on macrolide sensitivity (clarithromycin/ azithromycin) Test clarithro as same class as azithromycin Other antibiotic (e.g. ethambutol, rifamycins) tests far less reliable Commercial labs less reliable Amikacin can be tested Ethambutol used “anyway” • When to request sensitivity? Repeat treatment Treatment “failure” • Too slow to convert sputum • Patient worse EVALUATION: THE ORGANISM • Rapid growers(RGM): • Separate M. abscessus from chelonei and fortuitum • Further identify abscessus • Inducible resistance Erythromycin ribosomal methylase gene, erm(41) modifies the binding site for macrolides resulting in resistance in presence of macrolide Functional gene present in most M. abscessus subspecies abscessus and bolletii M. abscessus massiliense does not possess this gene EVALUATION: THE ORGANISM • Water and soil organism • Agriculture workers • Hot tubs • (Steam rooms, room humidifiers, others?? • Problem: It is in everyone’s home Husband and wife Apartment and pool health club Different M. avium subtypes and home sources!! • Geography Regional Hawaii, Louisiana vs. desert states Proximity to water EVALUATION: THE ENVIRONMENT HOST FACTORS LIKELY OUTWEIGH ALL OTHERS EVALUATION: THE PATIENT • Anatomic predisposition Bronchiectasis • Location and extent COPD Interstitial lung disease Other lung damage • Sarcoidosis • Immune deficiency Immunoglobulin deficiency Alpha 1 antitrypsin def Cystic fibrosis (younger patients) subclinical types sweat test/blood Ciliary dysfunction Most other genetic abnormalities not clinically relevant EVALUATION: THE PATIENT • Recent additions: • Swallow dysfunction (Dr. Balou) routine • Esophageal dysfunction (Dr. Khan) routine • Vocal cord dysfunction (Dr. Amin) per above We are particularly fortunate to have these specialists involved EVALUATION: THE PATIENT • Immune compromise: External factors • Medications: • Immune modifying • Need to be specific Prednisone/ systemic steroids • Relative • How much? • For how long? Biologics/ TNF alpha inhibitors Inhaled/ topical steroids • New to the list • Relative as well EVALUATION: THE PATIENT TWO HIT/ MULTI HIT HYPOTHESIS • Environmental Organism virulence Organism exposure burden • Genetic Single gene Polygenic Other intrinsic factors CONCLUSIONS FOR NOVEMBER 2017 THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION


NON TUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIUM: MANAGEMENT Doreen J. Addrizzo Harris,MD Professor of Medicine Co Director, NYU Bronchiectasis Program Associate Director for Education and Faculty Affairs Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine Division Name Conflict of Interest • Principal Investigator for bronchiectasis trials Insmed Aradigm Novartis US Bronchiectasis Research Consortium NTM Management First Steps Non Pharmacologic Therapy Bronchopulmonary Hygiene • Airway hygiene techniques Chest percussion and postural drainage Autogenic drainage Positive expiratory pressure (PEP) therapy Airway oscillation valves High frequency chest compression • Pharmacologic Agents Bronchodilators (e.g., beta adrenergic) Hypertonic saline , , 0. normal saline 4 Vibratory PEP Devices • Presentation Title Goes Here 5 Flutter® Device Quake® Device Acapella™ Device High frequency chest compression • Nutrition Accurate assessment of caloric intake Formal nutrition consult • Exercise Program Structured Cadiopulmonary program Cardiopulmonary Assessment with independent exercise program Routine exercise program Who Should Be Treated with Antibiotics? 7 Yes Probably/maybe no • Clinical symptoms Pulmonary Constitutional • Radiographic findings Extent of disease Disease progression • Other factors Younger Age Co morbidities •Immunosuppression • Minimal to no symptoms Pulmonary Constitutional • Minimal radiographic findings • ?how often to scan • Other factors Very advanced age Co morbidities • Co infected with other organisms Bacterial cultures Fungal cultures MAC fibronodular Fibronodular bronchiectasis 9 MAC Fibronodular Macrolide sensitive Medication dosage frequency macrolide Clari 1000 mg OR azithro 500mg Three days per week ethambutol 25mg/kg Three days per week rifampin 600mg Three days per week aminoglycoside N/A MAC Fibronodular Lung Disease: Treatment • 180 patients Completed > 12 Months of macrolide/azalide therapy No differences in clarithromycin vs azithromycin Treatment modification increased in daily () vs intermittent () Treatment success achieved in of patients Microbiologic recurrences in after completion of therapy reinfection isolates/ true relapse » Wallace RJ, et al Chest 2014 Aug 146:276 82 10 MAC Fibronodular Lung Disease: Treatment • Relapse vs Reinfection of Mycobacterium Avium Complex Pulmonary Disease Patient characteristics and macrolide sensitivity Boyle et al, Ann Am Thor Soc 2016 • suffered a clinical recurrence; relapse/ reinfection • Median time to recurrence was significantly lower in the relapse to reinfection group (210 days vs 671 days, P= .004). • MIC for macrolides were significantly more likely to increase in the relapse group vs reinfection group ( vs , P= .002). • Conclusion: • True relapse patient with pulmonary NTM recur earlier than reinfection • Routine use of pulse field gel electrophoresis may be beneficial as those with relapse have an increasing macrolide MIC compared to reinfections • Need for susceptibility testing in patients with recurrences? 11 MAC Fibrocavitary Fibronodular bronchiectasis 13 MAC Fibrocavitary medication dosage frequency macrolide Clari 500mg/BID Azithro 250 mg daily ethambutol 15 mg/kg daily rifampin 600 mg daily Aminoglycoside Localized amikacin IV Surgery uncertain Additional therapies/treatment • Inhaled amikacin • Clofazamine • Oxazolidinone (linezolid, tedozolid) • Bedaquiline Quinolones (moxifloxacin, levofloxacin) no evidence of in vitro or in vivo efficacy 14 • Phase II, efficacy and safety study of liposomal amikacin for inhalation, double blind placebo controlled • 89 patients were enrolled; 57 with MAI, 32 with M abscessus (of these 17 also had CF) • LAI vs placebo was added to multi drug regimen in patients with persistently positive sputums after a minimum of 6 months of treatment; of patients were on at least 1 year of therapy and were on 2 years or more. • After 84 days; all patients entered an open label phase of 84 days Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 • Primary endpoint was change from baseline to day 84 on a semi quantitative mycobacterial growth scale. • Other endpoints included sputum conversion, 6 minute walk distance, and adverse events. • Primary endpoint was not achieved (P=0.072); however, a greater proportion of the LAI group demonstrated ≥1 negative sputum cultures ( [14/44] vs. [4/45]; P=0.006) and improvement in 6 minute walk test (+20.6 vs. −25.0 meters; P=0.017) at day 84. • Treatment effect was predominantly in patients with non CF MAI patients. Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 Adverse events • The majority (~) of patients in both groups experienced at least one treatment emergent adverse event; most were mild to moderate • LAI versus placebo • dysphonia (43. vs. 8.) • bronchiectasis exacerbation (38. vs. 20.) • cough (31. vs.13.) • oropharyngeal pain (20. vs. 2.) • fatigue (15. vs. 8.) • chest discomfort (11. vs. ) • wheezing (9. vs. 2.) • infective pulmonary exacerbation of cystic fibrosis (9. vs. 2.) Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 Serious events • In the double blind phase, the overall incidence of serious adverse events was higher in the LAI group compared with the placebo group (18. vs. 8.) • bronchiectasis exacerbation (2 LAI; 1 placebo) • pneumonia (1 LAI; 2 placebo) • Renal events 1 mild event; Audiology 5 events Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 Conclusions • This study indicates that in select patients with treatment refractory non CF MAI disease, LAI added to guidelines based therapy can achieve early and sustained negative sputum cultures. • No patient isolate with a molecularly determined amikacin resistance mutation or a MIC of greater than 64 μg/ml achieved culture conversion. • Culture conversion in response to treatment with LAI may be associated with improvements in functional capacity; • Relative to treatment with parenteral amikacin there is limited systemic toxicity. Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 • Phase III CONVERT trial closed. • Demonstrated the addition of liposomal amikacin to guideline based therapy eliminated evidence of NTM lung disease caused by MAC in sputum at month 6 in compared with in the placebo group( P< 0.0001). Randomized Trial of Liposomal Amikacin for Inhalation in Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Olivier, et al Am J Resp Crit Care Med 2017 • Retrospective review of patient with MAC lung disease treated and monitored at least 6 months post treatment. • Aim was to evaluate clinical and microbiologic response in patients treated with clofazimine and/or rifampin • 107 patients were included • 90 () clofazimine/ethambutol and macrolide • 14 () rifampin/ethambutol and macrolide Long term follow up of Mycobacterium Avium Complex lung Disease in Patients Treated With Regimens Including Clofazimine and /or Rifampin. Jarand J, et al. CHEST 2016 •Results • Ethambutol was the drug most commonly stopped (14 patients) in either arm due to visual changes (12 patients) • Of the 93 patients who received clofazimine, 6 (6.) stopped due to side effects • 5 due to skin darkening or rash; 1 due to hallucinations •Summary • In this cohort, both initial outcomes and re treatment rates were better or as good in the clofazimine arm vs the rifampin containing regimens. • Clofazimine should be considered as an alternative drug for the treatment of MAC lung disease Long term follow up of Mycobacterium Avium Complex lung Disease in Patients Treated With Regimens Including Clofazimine and /or Rifampin. Jarand J, et al. CHEST 2016 • Observational cohort study to assess clofazimine safety, tolerability and clinical outcomes in patients treated with clofazimine as part of a multidrug regimen between 2006 2014 • Included pediatric and adult patients with CF and non CF disease with pulmonary and extra pulmonary NTM infection • Results • 112 patients included; 24 with CF • had refractory disease with failure to previous therapy • had M. abscessus; had M. avium complex; mixed • Median use of clofazimine was 383 days • (41 of 82) of patients with pulmonary disease converted to negative cultures within 12 months Safety and Effectiveness of Clofazimine for Primary and Refractory Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infection Martinino, et al CHEST 2017 • Summary • Clofazimine is a safe and reasonable alternative in this cohort, both initial outcomes and re treatment rates were better or as good in the clofazimine arm vs the rifampin containing regimens. • Clofazimine should be considered as an alternative drug for the treatment of MAC lung disease Clofazimine Therapy Jarand J, et al. CHEST 2016 Martinino, et al CHEST 2017 Yang, et al Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 2017 Treatment duration and monitoring • Treatment is usually 18 24 months; • A minimum of 12 months after culture conversion • Monitor patient closely for response and for side effects; need baseline and serial: •Labs •EKG •Audiometry •Ophthalmology exam •Physical exam and weights •Monthly sputums for AFB •Follow up CT scan/ PFTs 26 M. Abscessuss • Need speciation • M. Abscessus/Chelonea (not the same!) • M. Abscessus subsp abscessus (massiliense and bolletii) •Erm gene in •Macrolide resistant •Often need multiple IV antibiotics •Base decisions on treatment on sensitivities •Sample regimen •Macrolide, IV amikacin, IV tigecyclin, linezolid •Can back down to oral and inhaled therapy at times •Need to have 12 months of negative cultures 27 When to consider surgery?? • Refractory to antibiotic treatment/toxicity • Significant recurrent hemoptysis • Baseline pulmonary function permits surgical resection • Localized disease • Experienced surgeon • Good follow up for treatment regimen Pre and post surgery 28 Treatment and management pearls • Discuss your options with your physician • Don’t be afraid to ask questions • Follow your physicians recommendations; do your airway clearance; exercise; monitor your diet • Track any changes in symptoms or side effects and contact your physician early • Seek additional assistance through local patient groups; NTMir; COPD Foundation 29


Abraham Khan, MD Assistant Professor of Medicine Director, Center for Esophageal Disease Department of Medicine, NYU School of Medicine The Association of Reflux and Aspiration with NTM Aspiration/Reflux and Mycobacteria How could they be related??? The Basics • The Esophagus Tubular structure • Major purpose: transport swallowed food from throat to stomach Length: 18 to 22 cm on average Swallowing Aspiration Who is Involved? • Many specialists and practitioners may be involved along with pulmonologists and primary care Including but not limited to: • Oral specialists/dentistry • Otolaryngologists (ENT) • Swallow center specialists • Gastroenterologists Esophageal/motility specialists Swallowing Disorders •An oropharyngeal disorder Could be due to a problem in throat or larynx, may need ENT practitioner involved Could be due to a neuromuscular problem in this area, may need swallow therapist involved and particular swallow xrays •An esophageal motility (neuromuscular) disorder: problem with pushing food and/or liquid through esophagus into stomach Examples •Esophageal spasm, achalasia Can result in contents ascending up into airway •*These problems may be mild and patient may not know there is a swallowing “problem” Esophageal Disease • Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Definition: a condition that develops when the reflux of stomach contents causes troublesome symptoms and/or complications Gastroesophageal reflux Symptoms Damage Symptoms • Typical symptoms Postprandial heartburn Effortless regurgitation • Atypical symptoms Potentially due to GERD Includes trouble swallowing, chest pain, cough, hoarseness, excessive throat clearing, wheezing, feeling of a lump in the throat Potential Complications Current Knowledge • 2007 study of 58 patients with NTM1 had GERD by pH study and of these only had typical symptoms of GERD The GERD patients had worse bronchiectasis and lung inflammation on imaging • 2011 review on bronchiectasis and GERD2 Included many patients with NTM Large amount of patients (studies to ) with bronchiectasis have symptomatic or ‘silent’ GERD GERD may influence severity of bronchiectasis *Cause and effect has not been established* 1Koh et al. Chest 2007 2Lee et al. Pulm Med 2011 Treating GERD • Often a PPI is chosen • Potential side effects of PPIs Low quality evidence or conflicting: dementia, cardiovascular events and stroke, kidney disease, calcium and bone problems, pneumonia Certain vitamin deficiencies (magnesium and B12) appear rare or are treatable and reversible • However Understand if need to be on this type of drug long term *Weigh risks versus benefits* Questions Needing Answers •Does GERD predispose a patient to develop NTM? •Can GERD make NTM worse? •If GERD is involved, is the problem from acid, bile, or any type of reflux? •How should we treat GERD in patients with NTM? •Could an esophageal motility or swallowing problem complicate the picture? •*The answers to these questions remain very individualized* Procedures to Help • Upper endoscopy Procedure through mouth with anesthesia Good for looking at lining of esophagus and excluding complications in the esophagus from GERD Cannot disprove GERD Minimally useful for motility of the esophagus Procedures to Help • pH study #1: wireless pH capsule Small capsule placed on endoscopy Transmits acid data to recorder on outside of body for 48 96 hours Capsule falls off on own and does not need another procedure to retrieve Recorder returned by patient when recording has stopped Procedures to Help • pH study #2: pH impedance testing Catheter through nose and into stomach, attached to a recorder worn by patient Records acid, bile and all liquid reflux for 24 hours Recorder returned the next day by patient and data is then downloaded Procedures to Help • Esophageal manometry Deciphers if there is a motility problem in esophagus Catheter placed through the nose and attached to computer on the outside of body Study takes 5 to 10 minutes, about 10 swallows of liquid needed Catheter is then removed and data is interpreted by physician GOAL Utilize specialty swallowing and esophageal testing to identify and appropriately treat esophageal disorders in our patients with NTM Thank You Contact Information: Abraham Khan, M.D. Office: 212 263 3095