New York University UNIVERSITY POLICIES Title: NYU Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment Effective Date: September 2013 Supersedes: NYU Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment, August 24, 2012 Issuing Authority: University Provost Responsible Officer: Senior Vice Provost for Research Purpose of this Policy The purpose of this policy is to establish consistent guidelines for Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment. Who Needs to Know this Policy Faculty, administrators and staff in the NYU Academic Community LIST OF CONTENTS I. General Principles II. Policy Definitions III. Conflict of Commitment A. Definition B. Policy and Discussion IV. Conflict of Interest A. Definition B. Policy and Discussion C. Types of Conflict of Interest (1) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities (a) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities Generally (b) Outside Research Activities (c) Outside Teaching Activities (d) Requirements Related to Permissible Outside Activities, including Consulting, by NYU Faculty and Investigators (2) Scholarship and Other Academic Activities (3) Activities Creating a Conflict of Interest (a) Improper Use of NYU Resources (b) Obtaining, Using or Disclosing Confidential Information (c) Failing to Disclose and Assign Inventions and Discoveries (d) Competing with NYU (e) Business Arrangements For Personal Benefit 2 (f) Gifts Intending to Influence (g) Compliance with University Policies D. Circumstances Under Which Conflicts of Interest May Be Permitted E. Training V. Procedures: Disclosures, Review and Responsibilities A. Disclosures (1) Faculty and Other Investigators: Annual Disclosures (2) Faculty and Other Investigators: Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements (3) Faculty and Other Investigators: Ad Hoc Disclosures B. Review Procedures (1) Review of Annual and Ad Hoc Disclosures (2) Review of Research and Other Sponsored Projects Disclosures C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine D. Appeals E. Enforcement F. Record Retention Exhibit A: Examples of Conflict of Interest Exhibit B: Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES New York University (NYU) believes that a great university should be engaged in the world and should actively foster the transfer of knowledge gained in scholarship and research for the benefit of the public. NYU encourages its faculty to serve these goals through their primary commitment to engaging in teaching, research, including sponsored research, and collegial support activities that are consonant with our values as an institution of higher education. Insofar as is consistent with that commitment, it also is appropriate and often desirable for faculty members to participate in public and private activities beyond their NYU association by engaging in other professional and academic activities including public service, pro bono work and consulting activities that may benefit the participants, NYU, and the larger public. Normally it is expected that there will be no conflict between faculty commitment to NYU and other activities in which faculty members may engage, that faculty and Investigators (as defined below) will conduct their affairs so as to avoid or minimize conflicts of interest, and that should there be any actual, potential or appearance of conflicts between the individual’s private interests and his or her professional obligations to NYU, the faculty member or Investigator will promptly disclose and resolve any issues before engaging in the activities. NYU recognizes, however, that in undertaking activities as a part of a primary commitment to NYU or in outside endeavors, a divergence can occur between the personal interests of a faculty member or an Investigator and his or her professional obligations to NYU, in which case a conflict of commitment or conflict of interest can arise. 3 The purpose of this policy, including the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, is to assist the faculty in determining whether and to what extent such other activities may conflict with the faculty’s primary commitment to teaching, research and collegial responsibilities; to educate faculty and Investigators about situations that generate the potential for conflicts of interest or conflicts of commitment; to clarify expectations about disclosing interests and activities that might result in conflicts; to identify means to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflicts; and to promote the best interests of students and others whose work depends on the direction of faculty members and Investigators. Every NYU faculty member and Investigator has an obligation to become familiar with and abide by the provisions of this policy. If a faculty member or Investigator has a question about whether an activity is permitted under this policy, the faculty member or Investigator should disclose the potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, or the Office of the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), or the Office of the General Counsel. This policy covers conflicts of commitment and conflicts of interest. While this policy is of general applicability to faculty and Investigators, the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, which is appended hereto as Exhibit B, includes specific provisions regarding conflicts of interest arising in connection with Research and Other Sponsored Projects. The Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, without reference to the other provisions of this policy or other NYU policies, is intended to meet NYU’s obligations to maintain a policy on financial conflicts of interest in research funded by federal sponsoring agencies (including the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation). For purposes of this policy: (a) references to the “Provost” means the “Provost or his or her designee; and (b) references to the “Executive Vice President for Health” means “the “Executive Vice President for Health or his or her designee.” Individual Schools may wish to supplement this policy with policies applicable to their faculty and/or Investigators. To ensure consistency with NYU policies, such School policies must be approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). II. POLICY DEFINITIONS A Conflict of Commitment, as discussed in greater detail in Section III, occurs when a faculty member’s Outside Activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the faculty member’s obligations to NYU. A Conflict of Interest, as discussed in greater detail in Section IV and in the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including the Immediate Family Members of the individual) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question 4 whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. A conflict of interest under the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects constitutes a Conflict of Interest under this policy. Consulting refers to any remunerated Outside Activity involving an individual’s professional competence. Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role means a position involving service, in either a personal or representative capacity, as an employee, executive, manager, officer, director, trustee, or equivalent in a business, enterprise or entity other than NYU or an entity that is or more owned or controlled by NYU. Entity includes the entity itself and entities that own or control, are owned or controlled by or are under common ownership or control with the entity, with ownership and control defined as a or greater direct or indirect interest. Immediate Family Members include an individual’s spouse or domestic partner or person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, and any other family members residing in the same household. Investigator means the principal investigator or program director, and any other person, regardless of title or position, who is responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, or who proposes funding for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, at or under the auspices of NYU. For purposes of this policy, other than for the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, Investigator only includes members of the University Community. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. NYU includes the Schools and other units of NYU, NYU’s Global Network University sites, and all University Affiliates (as each term is defined in NYU’s Developing University Policies, as amended from time to time). Outside Activities include any external Consulting or other business activities and external professional or academic endeavors, such as public service or pro bono work, performed outside of the faculty member’s appointment to NYU or an Investigator’s employment or association with NYU. Ownership Interest means holding a financial or ownership interest in a business or entity, including stock, stock option, warrant, convertible debt, partnership interest, or LLP/LLC interest, or other ownership interest or right to obtain an ownership interest. The value of an Ownership Interest is determined through reference to public prices or other reasonable measures of fair market value where public prices are not available. Remuneration includes salary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees, honoraria, paid editorial or authorship activities). Income for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU from seminars, lectures, teaching engagements or service on advisory committees or review panels sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, or an 5 institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education, for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars, editorial or authorship activities, service on advisory committees or review panels (including professional associations), are excluded from the definition of Remuneration. Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any research project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and any externally funded training or professional service project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any systematic investigation, study or experiment designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, including basic and applied research (e.g., a published article, book or book chapter) and product development (e.g., a diagnostic test, drug or device), and non research projects such as training, clinical services, educational conferences, exhibitions, performances, archives, workshops, and library projects for which external funding is received. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any such activity for which funding is available from external sources through a grant, contract or agreement, including, but not limited to, research grants, career development awards, center grants, individual fellowship awards, infrastructure awards, institutional training grants, program projects and research resources awards. School means each NYU school, college and institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant, CUSP, and SoE), each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai) and also may include for purposes of this policy other global sites as designated by the Provost. School Dean means the dean, or his or her designee, of each NYU school and college, the director or each NYU institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant and CUSP) and the Vice Chancellor of each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York and Abu Dhabi). In the case of other NYU global sites that have faculty and/or Investigators, the Provost may designate someone to fulfill some or all of the duties of a School Dean as described herein with respect to such global sites. University Community means NYU faculty, including visiting faculty; researchers, including persons participating in research at or under the auspices of NYU; employees; professional staff, including medical, dental and nursing staff; volunteers; fellows, trainees and post doctoral appointees; students; and consultants, vendors and contractors. III. CONFLICT OF COMMITMENT A. Definition A Conflict of Commitment occurs when a faculty member’s Outside Activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the faculty member’s obligations to NYU. Full time NYU faculty members owe their primary professional allegiance to NYU, and their primary commitment of time and intellectual energies should be to NYU’s teaching, research, and clinical programs. 6 The specific responsibilities and professional activities that constitute an appropriate primary commitment to NYU will differ across Schools, departments and units, but they should be based on a general understanding between the faculty member and his or her department chair and/or School Dean. Even with such understandings in place, however, attempts of faculty to balance NYU responsibilities with Outside Activities can result in conflicts regarding allocation of time and energies. Normally, it is expected that there will be no Conflict of Commitment between faculty commitment to NYU and other activities in which faculty members may engage. Furthermore, to the extent any questions of possible Conflict of Commitment arise, it is anticipated that the faculty member will quickly resolve the issues. Outside Activities that do not constitute a Conflict of Commitment are permissible only if they also do not result in an impermissible Conflict of Interest (as discussed in Section IV and the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects attached to this policy as Exhibit B) and are in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the applicable School. B. Policy and Discussion (1) Faculty must maintain a significant physical presence on their assigned campus throughout each semester or summer period while they are compensated by NYU. A full time appointment conveys an obligation for a faculty member to have a significant physical presence on his or her assigned campus (e.g., New York, Abu Dhabi or other global campus), to be accessible to students and staff, and to be available to interact with NYU colleagues on that campus throughout every semester or summer period while the faculty member is receiving compensation from NYU (i.e., holds a compensated appointment and is not on leave), unless the department chair and/or School Dean has granted specific prior approval for extended or frequent absences from campus. Fulfillment of these obligations requires a primary commitment of expertise, time, and energy. Because requirements for field research and other reasons for absence from campus differ across NYU, Schools and departments may define for their faculties what qualifies as inappropriate, extended, or frequent absences. (2) Faculty must not allow Outside Activities to detract from their primary allegiance to NYU and should be guided and governed in their consideration of an offer of ancillary employment or other Outside Activities by their primary obligation of furthering NYU’s essential missions. Appointment as a full time faculty member is inconsistent with engaging in significant Outside Activities. Full time faculty are permitted to spend no more than an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) on Outside Activities during any semester or summer months in which they receive compensation from NYU. Uncompensated scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars sponsored by governmental or non profit entities, service on advisory committees or review panels for government or non profit entities, including professional associations, and service on the editorial board of a journal in the field of the faculty member’s appointment, may be excluded from the definition of Outside Activities by the School Dean or the Provost (the Executive Vice President 7 for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) for purposes of this paragraph. In addition, full time faculty members may not have executive or managerial responsibilities in a private or public entity outside of NYU. Exceptions to the prohibitions against engaging in Outside Activities more than one day per seven day week or having executive or managerial responsibilities in a private or public entity outside of NYU limitation are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made only with the prior written approval of the School Dean and Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Outside Activities may detract from a faculty member’s obligations to NYU. For that reason, Outside Activities must be consistent with the principles outlined in this policy and other applicable NYU policies. In particular, when judging the appropriateness of any such Outside Activity, faculty members must consider the time commitment involved and the potential impact of such Outside Activity, together with all of the faculty member’s other Outside Activities, on the fulfillment of NYU’s institutional goals. Part time faculty members may accept outside employment as long as it does not create a Conflict of Interest or otherwise interfere with any of their obligations to NYU. IV. CONFLICT OF INTEREST A. Definition A Conflict of Interest means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including Immediate Family Members of the individual), may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. B. Policy and Discussion NYU is committed to operating in a highly ethical manner and in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Undisclosed or inappropriate Conflicts of Interest can compromise the integrity of NYU, can reflect negatively on faculty and Investigators, and can result in financial and other sanctions on NYU. It is therefore the policy of NYU that Conflicts of Interest, including actual, potential and appearances of conflicts, be disclosed (see Section V.A below) and permitted only in appropriate cases, after being evaluated in accordance with this policy and managed to the extent determined advisable (see Section V.B below). Faculty or Investigators who are unclear as to whether a matter must be disclosed should err on the side of disclosure. NYU has broad power to require disclosures of Conflicts of Interest to determine whether a Conflict of Interest exists, to investigate Conflict of Interests, to manage or eliminate Conflicts of Interest, to impose appropriate sanctions on faculty and Investigators who violate this policy, to release 8 information about Conflicts of Interest and to require faculty and Investigators to take Conflict of Interest training. By way of example, the types of management actions that NYU may take in response to a Conflict of Interest include: reviewing and, where appropriate, monitoring the conflict; imposing conditions or restrictions intended to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflict; requiring disclosure of the conflict or of additional information; obtaining background documents; prohibiting a conflicted person from involvement, including exercising personal influence, in connection with a matter; obtaining waivers, consents and/or authorizations; appointing an oversight body to monitor the conflict or other activities; requiring relinquishment of interests and/or restructuring or severance of relationships that contribute to the conflict. In addition, NYU can eliminate the conflict, as for example by prohibiting a faculty member or an Investigator from participating in the activity or by requiring action that eliminates the conflict as a condition of participating in an activity. C. Types of Conflict of Interest A Conflict of Interest can arise in numerous situations. The following discusses some of the more common types, although Conflicts of Interest may arise in varying circumstances not encompassed in the categories below. This policy applies to any circumstance that may constitute a Conflict of Interest, regardless of whether specifically described herein, and regardless of whether it is effectuated directly or indirectly. For example, while an individual's personal interests are defined to include only those of the person and his or her Immediate Family Members, there also may be situations where the interests of other persons, such as a close friend or other family member, create a Conflict of Interest. Unless otherwise specifically stated, a faculty member or an Investigator may not engage in an activity prohibited by this Section IV.C. unless the activity is expressly permitted in the faculty member’s or Investigator’s employment contract with NYU or such activity is approved in advance in writing by the School Dean and Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Any such approval may be subject to a plan to manage, reduce or eliminate the Conflict of Interest. In addition, all permissible activities must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. (1) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities. Faculty must not allow Outside Activities or other personal activities to detract from their primary allegiance to NYU, as discussed in Section III relating to Conflict of Commitment. In addition, faculty and Investigators must undertake their Outside Activities and other personal activities in compliance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. In particular, a faculty member’s Outside Activities that involve teaching at another institution require special disclosure and review. (a) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities Generally The following Outside Activities and other personal activities create a Conflict of Interest: (i) Competing, directly or indirectly, with NYU in the provision, purchase or sale of any property, goods or services or in other activities in which NYU is or might reasonably and appropriately become engaged; and 9 (ii) Appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the person knows or should know that NYU is pursuing or is considering pursuing or reasonably might be interested in pursuing if it were aware of the opportunity; and (iii) Soliciting business that the person knows or should know would or might disturb an existing professional or business relationship that NYU has with any member of the University Community or outside entity. (b) Outside Research Activities Full time faculty members and full time Investigators may not act as a principal investigator under the auspices of another institution. All permissible outside research also must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. See in particular the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects attached to this policy as Exhibit B. (c) Outside Teaching Activities A teaching engagement outside of NYU competes directly with NYU’s core educational mission. Accordingly, a faculty member may not accept a concurrent faculty appointment at another academic institution; provided, however, that a faculty member may accept a concurrent faculty appointment at another academic institution while on unpaid leave from NYU with the prior approval of his or her School Dean. All Outside Activities involving teaching require prior approval from the School Dean, other than: (i) Delivering a limited number of lectures at other academic institutions, at conferences, or at public gatherings (with or without compensation); (ii) Teaching summer courses, at NYU or elsewhere, by faculty not receiving other summer compensation from NYU for the period in question; and (iii) Posting of uncompensated, non interactive educational materials on a website. The above exceptions are not absolute. For example, faculty should not teach courses designed for NYU at another institution or in connection with non NYU distance learning ventures, even during a period when they are not compensated by NYU, without prior consultation and opportunity for comment by the department chair and/or School Dean. These rules with respect to outside teaching activities apply primarily to full time faculty. Part time faculty members are expected to disclose their teaching activities outside of NYU as part of their appointment and whenever a material change has occurred and to engage in teaching activities outside of NYU only to the extent they do not interfere with any of their teaching obligations to NYU. In addition, the provisions cited above regarding teaching courses designed for NYU outside of NYU apply to part time faculty as well. 10 (d) Requirements Related to Permissible Outside Activities, including Consulting, by NYU Faculty and Investigators All faculty and Investigators who engage in Outside Activities, including Consulting, must conduct the activities in accordance with the following unless otherwise approved in accordance with this policy: (i) The Outside Activities must be consistent with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. (ii) The Outside Activities of full time faculty may not constitute a Conflict of Commitment as discussed in Section III above. (iii) Faculty and Investigators must disclose in writing to NYU all Outside Activities, including the entity(ies) for which activities are to be performed and the nature, scope, duration and compensation for such activities, in accordance with NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. Such Outside Activities must not constitute a Conflict of Interest without prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan. (iv) Prior to beginning any Consulting, faculty and Investigators must inform the party for whom the Consulting is to be performed of NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents, and this policy, and the obligations of the faculty member and/or Investigator under such policies. It is strongly encouraged that faculty and Investigators obtain recognition in any Consulting agreement of NYU’s rights and priorities under such policies to the extent they apply. (v) Faculty and Investigators may not use NYU resources, including facilities, personnel or equipment, except in a purely incidental way, as part of or in connection with their Outside Activities. Use of NYU funding, NYU intellectual property and NYU confidential information is never incidental and may not be used as part of or in connection with Outside Activities. In particular, faculty and Investigators may not use NYU students, staff or postdoctoral scholars in any tasks that relate to the Outside Activities of the faculty member and/or Investigator or for potential or real financial gain. (vi) Faculty and Investigators may not use the NYU name, or any NYU mark, symbol or logo, as part of or in connection with Outside Activities, other than reference to their NYU affiliation for identification purposes. (vii) Faculty and Investigators must make it clear that their Outside Activities are personal, NYU has no involvement in or liability for such activities and NYU is not endorsing such activities. 11 (viii) Faculty and Investigators may not grant any outside person or entity access to NYU resources, including research results and materials or products generated from NYU teaching or research activities. (ix) Faculty and Investigators may not make or offer inappropriate inducements or take actions that are illegal or unethical in connection with their Outside Activities. (x) Faculty and Investigators may not either (i) receive funds for the faculty member’s and/or Investigator's NYU research from a party for whom compensated Outside Activities are being performed or (ii) engage in compensated Outside Activities for a party from whom funds are to be received for the faculty member’s or Investigator's NYU research, without prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan. (xi) NYU has no responsibility or liability for the Outside Activities of faculty or Investigators. Faculty and Investigators are encouraged to consider all risks before undertaking Outside Activities. NYU insurance coverages do not protect faculty and Investigators engaged in Outside Activities. (2) Scholarship and Other Academic Activities. The heart of a university is its commitment to academic values and the failure of faculty and Investigators to carry on scholarship and other academic activities in an ethical and appropriate manner can damage NYU’s reputation and otherwise harm the NYU community, creating a Conflict of Interest. Consistent with NYU's mission and its prevailing academic ethos, faculty and Investigators are expected to foster an atmosphere of academic freedom by promoting the open and timely exchange of results of scholarly activities, ensuring that their advising of students, fellows, trainees and postdoctoral appointees is independent of personal commercial interests, and informing students and colleagues about outside obligations that might influence the free exchange of scholarly information between them and the faculty member or Investigator. Faculty and Investigators must ensure that: (a) The results of research or scholarship undertaken at NYU are disseminated on an open and timely basis to the broader scholarly community and public; and (b) The academic activities of student, fellows, trainees and postdoctoral appointees are free from the outside personal interests of the faculty member or Investigator; and (c) The work of students, fellows, trainees, postdoctoral appointees, and others is not inappropriately used in the course of a faculty member's or Investigator’s outside obligations. To this end, faculty members and Investigators should be open about their involvements with and obligations to outside third parties who could benefit from the work or ideas of their students, staff and colleagues. Similarly, students, staff and faculty collaborators should have access to information about the sources of funds that support their research and their contributions to such research should be properly credited; and (d) They have made a sufficient contribution under pertinent professional academic standards to warrant the authorship credit to be given them; and they must not permit their 12 identification as an author of a publication that they know or should know was written by sources who are not properly identified and credited (i.e., ghostwritten). For further information see the NYU Guidelines for Sponsored Research (Faculty Handbook), http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies guidelines compliance/policies and guidelines/faculty handbook.html. (3) Activities Creating a Conflict of Interest. The following activities create a Conflict of Interest (a) Improper Use of NYU Resources. NYU facilities, personnel and other resources are provided to further NYU’s educational, administrative, research, clinical and other goals. These resources may not be used for personal use, including Outside Activities, except in a purely incidental manner. Personal use may not adversely affect work performance or add more than a negligible amount to the cost of these resources for NYU. All such incidental or other personal use must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. The personal use, including in Outside Activities, of NYU funding or NYU intellectual property is never permitted and is never considered purely incidental. NYU does not ensure the security or privacy of any faculty work arising from personal use of NYU resources. (b) Obtaining, Using or Disclosing NYU Confidential Information. (i) Obtaining, using or disclosing NYU confidential information for direct or indirect personal interest, profit or advantage or, for a purpose that may be detrimental to NYU. (ii) Use of NYU confidential information for a purpose that is not authorized by NYU or disclosure of NYU confidential information to a person who or entity that is not authorized by NYU to receive it. For purposes of this policy, NYU confidential information includes, but is not limited to: medical, personnel, security, academic, background check, conflict of interest, identifiable biometric records and other non public information about individuals; business records; contracts and business terms; business and donor relationships; computer system passwords and security codes; proprietary and competitively sensitive information, including non public information about anticipated material requirements, price actions, programs, and selection of contractors and subcontractors in advance of official announcements; unpublished grant proposals, non public research data, manuscripts and correspondence; non public financial, procurement, health safety, audit, insurance and claims information; and non public information relating to internal investigations, pre litigation and litigation and administrative agency charges, audits and inquiries; and other information whose confidentiality is protected by law or NYU policies. (c) Failing to Disclose and Assign Inventions and Discoveries. Inventions and discoveries by faculty members, Investigators and others subject to NYU's Statement of Policy on Patents, http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies guidelines compliance/policies and guidelines/faculty handbook.html), must be disclosed and assigned on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of that Statement of Policy as in effect from time to time. 13 (d) Competing with NYU. (i) Engaging in activities that are in direct competition with NYU. (ii) Holding, directly or indirectly, an ownership or other financial interest (such as a royalty interest) or having an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role in an enterprise that is a competitor of NYU or promoting the interests of such enterprise at NYU. Holding, directly or indirectly, an Ownership Interest will not, by itself, be deemed to be a Conflict of Interest where: the interest is in an enterprise held through a diversified investment vehicle (such as a broad based mutual fund or exchange traded fund) in which neither the faculty member or Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family Members, collectively, has a or greater direct or indirect interest; or where the interest is held in publicly traded securities in which neither the faculty member or Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family Members, collectively, holds directly or indirectly securities valued in excess of $5,000 or that represent more than a interest of any class of a company’s stock or shares; (e) Business Arrangements for Personal Benefit. Participating, directly or indirectly, in the selection, award or administration (including attempting to influence the purchase of products or services as through a recommendation or involvement in the subsequent performance of the business arrangement) of any business arrangement involving NYU and an enterprise in which the faculty member or Investigator holds, directly or indirectly, an ownership or other financial interest (such as a royalty interest) or has an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role. (f) Gifts Intending to Influence. Accepting gifts (including entertainment), a loan (other than an arm’s length loan made in the ordinary course of business from a banking or other financial institution) or a favor of more than nominal value from any person or entity with a business relationship, or seeking to have a business relationship with, NYU or its faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients if the offer or acceptance of the gift could reasonably be viewed as intended to influence the business relationship. (g) Failure to strictly comply with NYU policies and other rules, regulations and standards of conduct. Examples of specific Conflicts of Interest intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this Section IV.C. are set forth in Exhibit A to this policy. D. Circumstances Under Which Conflicts of Interest May Be Permitted It is recognized that certain Conflicts of Interest may arise in situations in which a faculty member or Investigator does not know or have reason to know of the conflict. In such situations the person should disclose the Conflict of Interest immediately upon learning of it. While Conflicts of Interest must be disclosed, they normally will be permitted where they are a minor, but an inseparable, part of a larger business relationship, or as a practical matter cannot realistically be eliminated, provided they are highly unlikely to pose a significant Conflict of Interest and the faculty member or Investigator is 14 not in a position to influence NYU in its decision making regarding the transaction or to benefit from NYU’s transaction with the outside entity. In considering whether a Conflict of Interest arising from a faculty member’s or an Investigator’s Outside Activities may be permitted, favorable factors include: (a) The faculty member or Investigator fully disclosing in advance to NYU the material facts of the proposed Outside Activity, including the specific financial interest(s) and/or role(s) the faculty member or Investigator proposes to undertake; (b) The faculty member or Investigator refraining from voting or exercising any personal influence whatsoever in connection with the selection, award or administration of any matter that gives rise to a Conflict of Interest; (c) The faculty member or Investigator otherwise avoiding participating in any dealings between NYU, or its faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients, and the person, entity or company with whom or in which the faculty member or Investigator (or Immediate Family Member) has a financial interest or an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role, including with respect to the selection of such person, entity or company as a vendor or business partner of NYU (or as a supplier of goods or services to NYU faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients) or the subsequent award or administration; (d) The Outside Activities are conducted on an arm’s length basis at fair market value; and (e) NYU determines in accordance with Section V of this policy that the Conflict of Interest is not inconsistent with the best interests of NYU. Where a Conflict of Interest arising from a faculty