together in a multicultural environment. NYU Langone’s CPE programs are accredited by the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE) and we offer full- and part-time options. After a thorough orientation, interns are assigned to clinical units to provide spiritual care to patients, families, and staff. Interns are supervised by educators and supported by preceptors and mentors. Chaplain interns learn how to listen to and engage with patients and their loved ones, build rapport, and respond to verbal and nonverbal communication. Students develop a deeper understanding of themselves, others, and the ministry. Chaplain Internship Program at NYU Langone Our chaplain internship program is open to ministers of all faiths, theological students, qualified laypersons, and any professionals who are engaged in related work or studies. Students are required to spend 400 supervised hours of ministry practice, including 300 hours on clinical work plus 100 hours in the classroom and on individual education. Our part-time units, held in spring and fall, both require 18 hours per week of clinical visits, done on a flexible schedule. The spring extended unit lasts from early January to early May, and the fall extended units goes from late August through late December. The full-time summer unit, which requires 40 hours a week, lasts 11 weeks, beginning in late May and ending in early August. Below is our internship schedule for 2025 and beyond. Spring 2025 Extended Unit January 6 to May 9 (18 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–2:30PM Clinical Work: 18 hours per week, on a flexible schedule Summer 2025 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 27 to August 8 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM Clinical Work: Monday through Friday, 9:00AM–5:00PM, when CPE class is not being held Fall 2025 Extended Unit August 19 to December 19 (18 weeks) Spring 2026 Extended Unit January 5 to May 8 (18 weeks) Summer 2026 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 26 to August 7 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesdays 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM CPE classes typically take place at 550 First Avenue, Manhattan. CPE clinical placements are at the following locations: , 550 First Avenue, Manhattan , 434 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 430 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 301 East 17th Street, Manhattan , 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY Requirements and Application Prospective students must have earned a bachelor’s degree or equivalent, and one or more years of theological or religious training is preferred. Applicants must undergo a background check and health clearance. We believe students from a variety of backgrounds and experiences help inspire excellence and address inequities in healthcare in our patient communities. We promote respect, tolerance, and expanding the diversity of our community. Students of underrepresented backgrounds, including but not limited to those who identify as Black or African American, Latinx, Native American, Native Pacific Islander, or Native Alaskan, are encouraged to apply. CPE applications are received on a rolling basis until all openings are filled. Once the program is at capacity, applications may be held on a waiting list for consideration in the next available unit. Tuition is $800 per unit, with a nonrefundable deposit of $300 due with your acceptance materials. The $500 balance is due on the first day of your CPE program. Your ecclesial body or seminary may be able to provide funding to help defray the costs. Please complete the ACPE application use of clinical materials consent form and mail them to this address: Rev. Young-Ki Eun, CPE Director 545 First Avenue Floor C-Room 019 You can also email your application to Young-Ki.Eun@NYULangone.org For more information on our CPE programs, please contact SpiritualCare@NYULangone.org Our Specialties Our neurologists are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Dysautonomia Center Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Neuro-Ophthalmology Program Neuropalliative Care Pediatric Epilepsy Program Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis Center tDCS Program Ranked No. 1 in the U.S. ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery. Top Ranked Specialties NYU Langone has 13 top-ranked specialties in the nation, according to When it comes to your brain, only the best will do. NYU Langone neurologists are dedicated to providing exceptional patient care, driven by innovative scientific research. Our record of excellence is reflected in our No. 1 ranking in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery in U.S. News and World Report’s “Best Hospitals.” We’re advancing our knowledge of neurology through innovative research and clinical trials. We also train the next generation of world-class neurologists. With more than 260 faculty and over 100,000 outpatient visits annually, we provide outstanding, compassionate care and treat a broad range of neurological conditions, from headache autonomic disorders , to more rare conditions, such as atypical facial pain myasthenia gravis A Team Approach to Neurology Care As leaders in the field of conditions that affect the brain and nervous system, NYU Langone is home to the country’s most prominent programs and centers, and our cross-disciplinary expertise helps us unravel the most complex clinical puzzles. Experts at our provide personalized treatment plans for people living with multiple sclerosis (MS) , while doctors at our , take a humanistic and empathetic approach to care for people who have such as , essential tremor, and dystonia. Comprehensive Stoke Center , certified by The Joint Commission, provides the most advanced care 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and is part of the integrated , which benefits from close work with specialists across NYU Langone. Brain Recordings Reveal How All Minds Plan Speech Together with our colleagues at the , we have improved diagnosis, while our is among the largest epilepsy and seizure disorders treatment programs in the United States, specializing in treating challenging forms of epilepsy, including epilepsy in children Specialized Care for Brain and Nervous System Disorders We monitor our patients’ neurological status with state-of-the-art diagnostic techniques and work to develop increasingly effective therapies to manage their conditions. Our provides genetic testing and evaluation to identify and better understand conditions that effect the brain and nervous system, and doctors at our analyze eye movements to aid in the diagnosis of a variety of neurological conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements, such as double vision and optic neuritis. , our team provides early diagnosis and the appropriate treatments for Alzheimer’s disease memory loss , coupled with support services for families and caregivers. With our vast expertise and depth of knowledge, our neurology team emphasizes compassion and comfort, and we customize our treatments to meet your unique needs. Our neurologists are available at throughout the New York City area and the surrounding suburbs of Long Island. Our Neurology Centers and Programs We offer immediate diagnosis and treatment, as well as rehabilitation services, in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our experts offer superior clinical care for people with autonomic disorders. We help people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders to achieve the highest possible quality of life. We offer support for people with multiple sclerosis, while also working toward a cure. We provide high-quality care to people with disorders affecting vision and the nervous system. Our experts provide diagnosis and treatment of neurogenetic conditions. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory loss. We provide expert diagnosis and treatment for children and teens with epilepsy. We provide treatment and support for children living with multiple sclerosis. We offer at-home tDCS sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. New Drug Offers Relief for Treatment-Resistant Epilepsy Rapid Stroke Treatment Is Lifesaving for Brooklyn Patient Teleneurology Challenges Met by Training Curriculum How Doctors Solved the Mystery of the Dancing Scar Restoring Key Brain Rhythm May Help Treat Depression Stressful Events Worsen Long COVID Symptoms Research Partnership Tackles Parkinson’s Disease Progression Cognitive Neurology Expert Reflects on World Alzheimer’s Day NYU Langone Is an Integrated Comprehensive Stroke Center Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health Care Team At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our patients are cared for by a team of medical professionals who are specially trained to help people learn how to manage diabetes. Clinical nutrition coordinator Emily Johnston and nurse Courtney Albert discuss a patient’s case. Inpatient Glycemic Management Service Our inpatient nurse practitioners care for people who have diabetes and glucose problems while they are in the hospital, and provide inpatient discharge services that help you transition to managing your condition at home. Our inpatient services are available to people at NYU Langone’s E. Dessa Garnett, MSN, FNP-BC, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Garnett is a board-certified nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She works with patients while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level, and creates plans to help maintain their health at home. Ms. Garnett earned her master of science degree in nursing from SUNY Downstate. Yonit Lipkind, MSN, FNP-BC, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lipkind is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She works with people who have diabetes while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level. She also educates patients on ways they can properly control their blood glucose levels once they return home. Annie D. Lu, MSN, ANP-BC, BC-ADM, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lu is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner who has more than 10 years of experience helping people with diabetes better manage the condition. She is board certified in advanced diabetes management and specializes in providing diabetes care in a hospital setting and helping people as they transition back home. She earned her master of science degree in nursing from Columbia University. Victoria Maffey, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Maffey is a board-certified family nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator who helps patients who are newly diagnosed with type 1 or type 2 diabetes learn how to control blood glucose levels. She also helps patients struggling with glucose control learn better ways to manage the condition. Her goal is to improve her patients’ overall health and teach them ways to easily and actively manage diabetes in their everyday lives. Iryna Sasinovich, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Sasinovich is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She assists doctors and nurse practitioners to help hospitalized patients who have type 1 and 2 diabetes achieve better glycemic control. This can shorten the length of a hospital stay and reduce the risk of infection. She also specializes in helping people who are newly diagnosed or have poorly controlled diabetes better manage the condition. Sandra Waugh, DNP, FNP-BC, MSN, RN, Nurse Practitioner Dr. Waugh, who holds a doctorate in nursing practice, is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She educates patients and their families about diabetes and how best to manage the condition in everyday life. Her goal is to help patients maintain a healthy blood glucose level, which in turn improves their overall health. Dr. Waugh received her doctorate from Robert Morris University and both her master of science degree in nursing and family nurse practitioner degree from Molloy College. Center for Diabetes and Endocrinology Outpatient Care Team Our team of certified diabetes educators, registered dietitians, and registered nurses assist patients at several of our outpatient locations. Courtney Albert, BSN, CDE, Registered Nurse Ms. Albert, a certified diabetes educator, takes an individualized approach to educating patients on the best ways to manage diabetes. This includes helping people adapt to life with diabetes, understand their medications, and manage symptoms that can accompany the condition. She also helps patients identify and put into practice the lifestyle modifications that are most likely to improve their overall health. Angela T. Amendola, MS, PA-C, RD, CDE, Physician Assistant Ms. Amendola is a physician assistant, certified diabetes educator, and registered dietitian. She earned her master of science degree in applied physiology and nutrition from Columbia University and completed her physician assistant studies at Hahnemann University. She provides diabetes education and nutrition counseling to patients. She also educates and advises them on ways to improve their glycemic control and diabetes management. Abigail Kennedy-Grant MS, RD, CDE, CDN, Registered Dietitian and Certified Diabetes Educator Ms. Kennedy-Grant completed her master of science degree in clinical nutrition and dietetic internship at New York University. She specializes in diabetes and nutrition education, especially for those who have type 1 diabetes. She is a certified dietitian nutritionist and a certified trainer on multiple insulin pump models and continuous glucose monitors. Ms. Kennedy-Grant is excited to help patients master the healthy habits that lead to achieving diabetes control, weight goals, and best health. Sunhi Shin, MA, RN, CDE Ms. Shin is a registered nurse and certified diabetes educator. She is passionate about diabetes education and uses education and lifestyle changes to help her patients manage their health. Ms. Shin practices at Concorde Medical Group. Diana Ventimiglia, RN-BC, BSN, Registered Nurse Ms. Ventimiglia is a board-certified medical–surgical registered nurse. She educates patients on ways to manage diabetes, including proper use of medication, and provides support to help them achieve their diet and exercise goals. If you’ve been diagnosed with , the right medication and lifestyle modifications can significantly improve your health. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our team of experts helps find the treatment approach that is right for you. Dr. Michael Bergman tests a patient's glucose levels. We determine whether oral medications, insulin, or newer medicines that improve blood glucose control while reducing appetite to trigger weight loss are best for you. Lifestyle modifications, such as improving diet and exercise to achieve meaningful weight loss, also have a huge impact on your health. We identify the changes that can be most helpful, and provide the support you need to make them part of your everyday life. Care for Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes occurs when the body is unable to use its natural insulin to keep blood glucose levels in a normal range. High blood glucose levels cause damage throughout the body, such as the heart, eyes, kidneys, and nerves. High blood pressure and uncontrolled cholesterol, which occur frequently in people with type 2 diabetes, worsen these complications. With the right treatment, it is possible to limit the impact of type 2 diabetes. Our endocrinologists determine which medicine provides you with the best blood glucose control. Our nurses, who are certified diabetes educators, help you to understand what it means to have type 2 diabetes and the best way to manage everyday life with diabetes. Our nutritionist is available to help you create a healthy eating plan that fits with your lifestyle. For some people, medical or surgical weight loss can put a stop to diabetes’ damaging effects on the body. We can connect you with NYU Langone’s Our goal is to help you gain control over type 2 diabetes so you can avoid the dangerous conditions that may accompany it, such as neuropathy , and vision loss. Type 2 diabetes care is provided by the following physicians: Nidhi Agrawal, MD Michael Bergman, MD Sonal Chaudhry, MD Aaron R. Chidakel, MD Sandra T. Foo, MD Ira J. Goldberg, MD Alina Gouller, MD Akankasha Goyal, MD Loren Wissner Greene, MD Gillian Katz, MD Sanjiv Kinkhabwala, MD Olga Leonardi, MD Valerie H. Peck, MD Stephen B. Richardson, MD Lawrence Rosman, MD Nina Sundaram, MD Stuart Weiss, MD Susan Zweig, MD For people with type 1 diabetes, taking insulin each day is a fundamental part of keeping blood glucose levels in check. But this is only one aspect of managing type 1 diabetes. Patient education and support are also crucial. Our experts provide patients with the tools needed to successfully manage type 1 diabetes. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, we determine the treatment plan that is best for you, while also providing the tools and information you need to ensure your health and wellbeing. Focused Care for Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body fails to make its own insulin, a hormone that is essential for moving blood glucose into cells where it is used to produce energy. People with type 1 diabetes are usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood, but their medical needs last a lifetime. Whether you’ve been treated at NYU Langone’s or you’re an adult who is new to NYU Langone, our care team can develop a treatment plan to keep you healthy and help you successfully manage type 1 diabetes. Our endocrinologists monitor your insulin needs, which can change as you age. We determine the type of insulin that provides the best blood glucose control, and which delivery system is best for you, such as syringe injections, insulin pens, or an insulin pump. For patients that can benefit from using continuous glucose monitors, we’re experts in using these devices. Our certified diabetes educators and registered dieticians help you understand the impact that dietary carbohydrates and food choices have on insulin levels, and how to adjust your medicine accordingly. We also teach you how to recognize and treat spikes and dips in blood glucose levels, and help you understand how exercise and illness affect your diabetes control. As people with this condition age, if diabetes, blood pressure and cholesterol are not well controlled, the chances of foot ulcers increase. People with type 1 diabetes are also at greater risk of hypoglycemia, which is dangerously low blood glucose levels. Proper blood glucose control helps reduce these risks. If these conditions do develop, we have the expertise to help you manage them. Our goal is to help you maintain your everyday health, so you can live a long, healthy life on your terms. Type 1 diabetes care is provided by the following doctors: Sanjiv V. Kinkhabwala, MD Financial Information for International Patients At NYU Langone, we understand that the cost of medical care is a determining factor in where you choose to receive treatment. For that reason, our International Patient Services team provides high-quality healthcare services at competitive prices. As part of our service to you, our team seamlessly provides a fair and honest assessment of what you can expect to pay for your treatment. Your dedicated international coordinator provides you with an estimate of your medical costs, including both hospital and physician (professional) charges. The coordinator also helps with collecting the payment prior to your receiving care. The only exceptions are people who receive health coverage through their foreign embassy or people who participate in an international insurance program accepted by NYU Langone. In this case, your coordinator works with you on securing a letter of prior authorization either from your embassy or insurer. +1-212-263-3588 The spiritual care team at NYU Langone includes chaplains, rabbis, priests, and imams who are available to counsel people of all faiths, as well as those who do not have a spiritual practice. Our chaplains are board-certified or eligible for certification, meaning they have finished their theological and clinical pastoral education and are completing an additional 2,000 hours of clinical work as well as a professional board review. Our chaplains are available at our inpatient facilities in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Manhattan Spiritual Care Team Chaplains at NYU Langone’s are available weekdays from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Chaplains at are available by request . If you would like to speak to a chaplain, rabbi, priest, or imam after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Rabbi Amy Ruth Bolton, MA, BCC Rabbi Bolton is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master of arts in rabbinic studies and ordination from the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies at American Jewish University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Bolton served as a hospice chaplain with VNS Health. She has more than two decades of experience providing care in home, assisted living, long-term care, and hospital settings. Her professional experience also includes addiction recovery and adult and youth education. Rabbi Bolton is a co-founder of Lifestorms, a program offering integrated psycho-emotional and spiritual support. She speaks English and Hebrew. The Reverend Young-ki Eun, MDiv, ACPE Clinical Pastoral Educator (CPE) Rev. Eun is an ordained Presbyterian minister with more than 20 years’ experience working as a CPE educator, chaplain, university faculty member, and parish minister. He graduated from the University of Toronto/Knox College with a master’s degree in divinity. He has completed postgraduate studies in theology, English, linguistics, and psychoanalytic studies, as well as four years of clinical training in psychotherapy. Rev. Eun started his CPE journey in 1999 at Toronto General Hospital, Canada. His work as a CPE supervisor includes New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center; The Hospital of St. Raphael (now Yale New Haven Hospital-St Raphael Campus), Connecticut; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston; Ochsner Health System, New Orleans; and Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee. As an ACPE-certified educator, Rev. Eun has a passion for empowering chaplain residents and interns to gain a deeper connection with their authentic selves in a genuine, diverse, and trustworthy learning environment, and to forge and strengthen their own personal and professional identity in their spiritual-care ministry of compassion. Ahmet M. Atlig, PhD, BCC Staff Chaplain and Imam Dr. Atlig began his career at the Imams and Preachers Seminary in Izmir, Turkey, where he was ordained as an imam and Muslim cleric. He received his doctorate in philosophy from the Theology Department at the University of West Coast, and then served as the imam of New Peckham Mosque, in London. After relocating to the United States, Dr. Atlig completed the Clinical Pastoral Education program at VA New York Harbor Healthcare System and became a board-certified chaplain with HealthCare Chaplaincy Network in 2019. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as a chaplain at various New York City hospitals. Dr. Atlig speaks Turkish, Arabic, and English, and is married, with three children. Shaul Praver, BCC, DMin Staff Chaplain and Rabbi Chaplain Praver is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains and ordained by the Jerusalem Rabbinate. He received his doctorate in ministry from Hartford International University for Religion and Peace and completed his clinical training at Norwalk Hospital, both in Connecticut. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as chaplain–rabbi with the Connecticut Department of Correction. Prior to that, Chaplain Praver served as the spiritual leader of Congregation Adath Israel in Newtown, Connecticut. The Reverend W. Kaytlin Butler, MDiv Rev. Butler is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York, and she is an ordained teaching elder in the Presbyterian Church (USA). Before joining NYU Langone, she served as a chaplain for six years at Mount Sinai Hospital, where she also completed her clinical training. She is a widely respected speaker on subjects of spirituality and health. Rev. Butler serves as children’s services chaplain for Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care at Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone. The Reverend Rosemarie Napoli Associate Staff Chaplain Rev. Napoli is a Minister of Word and Sacrament in the Presbyterian Church USA. She has special interest in working with people with addictions and those living with HIV and AIDS. Rev. Napoli serves as the Associate Pastor at Fourth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The Reverend Dwayne McClary, MDiv Rev. McClary received his master of divinity at Yale University and is ordained by the American Baptist Churches USA. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Rev. McClary completed his clinical training at Bridgeport and Norwalk Hospitals, both in Connecticut. He is also a seasoned music executive who has held marketing posts at Motown, Universal, and MCA Records. Rev. McClary holds a bachelor’s degree in journalism/communications from Rutgers University and certification in marketing from NYU’s School of Professional Studies. The Reverend Stephen Okeke Roman Catholic Priest Father Okeke received his master’s degree in pastoral theology from St. John’s University and his doctorate in pastoral counseling from Hebrew Union College—Jewish Institute of Religion in New York City. He worked in Nigeria for three years as an associate pastor and a chaplain with the St. Stephen’s Society. Father Okeke is also chaplain to the Igbo Catholic community in the Bronx, serving people whose roots are in West Africa. Jenelle Halley Department Secretary Ms. Halley’s passion for maintaining a positive and respectful work environment led her to our spiritual care team, where she manages all department events, meetings, patient requests, services, and training. Ms. Halley also provides administrative support to our department, and serves as the liaison between patients, the spiritual care team, and hospital leadership. Brooklyn Spiritual Care Team Chaplains are available on-site at on weekdays between 9:00AM and 5:00PM and on Sundays from 12:00 to 4:00PM. For more information, please call the Spiritual Care office at ; you can also request a nursing consult for spiritual needs. If you have an urgent spiritual need outside of the hours listed, please ask your nurse to call or the hospital operator for available resources. The Reverend Ray Lewis Jr. Rev. Lewis is a board-certified chaplain and pastoral counselor ordained by Hartford Memorial Baptist Church in Michigan. He received his master’s degree in divinity from Emory University in Georgia and his doctorate in pastoral care from the United Lutheran Seminary of Philadelphia. Rev. Lewis is currently pursuing a diplomate in pastoral supervision at The College of Pastoral Supervision and Psychotherapy. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he served as an adjunct instructor, pastor, and chaplain with the Florida Department of Corrections, VITAS and VNA hospice care, and the Level 1 Trauma Center at Penn Medicine. The Reverend Emmanuel Conduah Father Conduah has a postgraduate diploma in education from the University of Cape Coast in Ghana. He is working towards his doctorate in educational leadership at Fordham University and his clinical pastoral education certification with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains, under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn. Monica-Lisa Mills Monica-Lisa Mills received her master’s degree in divinity from New York City’s Episcopal Divinity School. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, she completed her clinical training at NewYork-Presbyterian’s Columbia University Irving Medical Center and its Brooklyn Methodist Hospital. Chaplain Mills is a visual artist and musician and previously worked as a high school ethics and religion teacher. Long Island Spiritual Care Team on weekdays between 8:30AM and 11:00PM. Please call to arrange a visit. If you have an urgent spiritual need after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Learn how you can support our Spiritual Care Program Learn more about the Learn more about the staff of NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, which provides parent education and support. Victoria Masterson, CLC, CSPT, Program Coordinator Ms. Masterson has been a member of the NYU Langone family since 1987, beginning her career as a credentialing coordinator for the Emergency Department and managing training for all incoming resident and attending physicians. After transferring to Perinatal Education and Lactation in 2007, she is now responsible for the administrative support for all parent education programs, handling day-to-day operations for all classes, and is the administrative coordinator of our Lactation Telehealth Program.  Ms. Masterson holds a bachelor’s degree in child development, is an American Heart Association (AHA) cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor, a nationally certified child passenger safety technician, a baby sign language instructor, and a certified lactation counselor. Rachel Leibson, RN, BSN, IBCLC, BA, Nurse Coordinator of Lactation Services Ms. Leibson has been with NYU Langone since January of 2020. She was hired as a lactation specialist and became a nurse coordinator in 2021. Ms. Leibson’s career has included postpartum nursing, pediatric outpatient nursing, and inpatient and outpatient lactation consulting. She believes in respectful care of every family and is passionate about helping them meet their feeding goals with nonjudgmental support and education. She coordinates a team of lactation specialists at Tisch Hospital and is proud of the empathetic and skilled care they provide to their patients. Elizabeth Lampert, RN, MSN ED, CLC, LCCE, Nurse Coordinator for Parent Education and Community Outreach As a doula and childbirth educator, Ms. Lampert has worked as a maternal–child health nurse and educator for more than 20 years at hospitals in New Jersey and New York. She is an advanced and basic cardiac life support and neonatal resuscitation instructor and a TeamSTEPPS master trainer. The recorded Ready, Set, Baby! information session guides you through what happens from the time you arrive at the hospital to delivery, discharge, and your return home. Links are available for those delivering at NYU Langone’s , and they include photos and videos showcasing our units and special programs. For more information, please email register online The following eClasses, from NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, are available in your choice of eight languages: English, Arabic, Spanish, French, Portuguese, German, Japanese, and Chinese. You can progress at your own pace: after you first sign on, you have nine months to complete or review the class before you lose access. eClasses can be viewed on your smartphone, computer, or tablet, and their sections can be viewed in any order. Understanding Birth Consider this class your go-to guide for answers you can trust on pregnancy, labor, comfort techniques, medical procedures, and newborn and postpartum information. This interactive online course also highlights ways partners or support persons can help throughout the process. You’ll also get a sense of what labor is really like as you watch several birth stories, and you’ll also have the opportunity to create your own birth plan. : $150 Understanding Fatherhood This class will help guide you through your fatherhood journey—from pregnancy to birth and beyond. Using video clips featuring real fathers and interactive activities, this eClass can help you feel more prepared. We recognize that there are all types of dads and families. No matter what your situation, this inclusive class will offer helpful information as you prepare for this life transition. : $45 Understanding Your Newborn Babies do not come with an owner’s manual, but this online class to is the next best thing. Through instructive video clips, animations, and interactive games, this comprehensive class teaches you how to care for and bond with your newborn. Sleep patterns, comfort techniques, and basic baby care are all covered. : $75 Understanding Breastfeeding Breastfeeding can be an amazing experience, but it is not always easy. This class, which discusses the benefits of breastfeeding and common challenges in a nonjudgmental way, gives you the tools to make the best choice for your family. : $60. Understanding Grandparenting Birth and babies haven’t changed, but what we know about them has. Now you can prepare yourself for your new role from the comfort of home. This interactive online class covers the current evidence-based knowledge about birth, breastfeeding, baby care, and infant safety, and it provides ways for new grandparents to offer support and assistance to the new family. In just a few hours you will learn what’s new, refresh what you already know, and feel more comfortable when called upon to help care for your grandchild. Get ready to take on one of life’s most rewarding roles. The program includes videos, animations, tools and trackers, and an audio library, with lullabies. : $40 We’re excited that you have chosen to deliver your baby at NYU Langone. As you prepare for your baby’s arrival, we encourage you to select an obstetrician and a pediatrician, complete a birth plan, and learn ways to maintain your health during and after . We also provide tips on how to To make the admission process easier when you are in labor, we ask that you fill out our pre-maternity registration packet . Please submit the completed packet to our obstetrics pre-admitting specialists by faxing it to 646-754-9572 or emailing it to ObPre-Adm@NYULangone.org . If you have questions, please call us at 646-501-3967 We can help find the right doctor for you or your child. For expecting mothers, our obstetricians provide specialized care before and after your baby is born. Our pediatricians care for infants, children, and teenagers at Your Birth Plan In order to provide the birthing experience that you want, we encourage you to share your hopes and expectations for childbirth with your doctors and nurses. To start the discussion, please fill out our . After completing the form, please discuss the answers with your doctor and anyone else you plan to have present during the birth such as your partner, birth coach, or midwife. For example, we want to know if an epidural is part of your pain management plan, whether or not you plan to breastfeed, and if you would like your baby to remain in your room for the duration of your stay. Please keep in mind that a birth plan is a guide, not a guarantee. By its nature, birth is dynamic and unpredictable. It’s important to be open and flexible in your expectations, as circumstances can change unexpectedly. We are fully committed to your active participation in the decision-making process throughout the course of your labor. Our goal is to provide you with a beautiful, safe, and memorable birth experience. Psychological Wellbeing At NYU Langone, our psychiatrists provide evaluation and treatment for women with pregnancy-related and postpartum psychiatric disorders. These include mood disorders such as anxiety disorders , postpartum blues, postpartum depression, postpartum obsessive-compulsive disorder, and postpartum psychosis. We can also answer questions about using psychiatric medications during pregnancy and while breastfeeding. Pain Management During Labor and Delivery Our doctors offer different types of pain management options during labor, based on your preferences and needs. Learn more about pain relief during labor and delivery Prenatal and Postpartum Exercise Program Pregnancy and childbirth put a considerable amount of physical stress on the body. As a result, you might ache in places for the first time, such as your neck, lower back, pelvic area, and your joints. Some women also deal with female urinary incontinence You may find relief from this discomfort with the exercise and strength-training techniques taught in the women’s health program at Rusk Rehabilitation Routine Medications After Birth All newborns receive a vitamin K injection and erythromycin eye ointment after birth. The vitamin K injection reduces the risk of bleeding due to a vitamin K deficiency. The erythromycin reduces the risk of severe eye infection. Both treatments are required by law for all infants born in New York. Hepatitis B Vaccine Hepatitis B is a serious and sometimes fatal liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus. People who are infected with hepatitis B may or may not feel sick, but can still transmit the virus to others. When babies get infected, the virus usually remains in the body for a lifetime. Babies can get the virus from their infected mothers at birth or, more commonly, from an infected person who cares for the baby or works in the home. The hepatitis B vaccine is a baby’s best defense against being infected with this virus. Experts from the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention all recommend vaccination