in the intensive care unit for several days and for 10 to 14 days in the hospital. Your care team may recommend spending some time at the program at to build up your strength and stamina before going home. Balloon Pulmonary Angioplasty Our interventional cardiologists at may manage CTEPH with a balloon pulmonary angioplasty, which is less invasive than surgery. For this procedure, a doctor threads a catheter into a lung artery and inflates a balloon to open the blood vessel, improving blood flow. This approach may be recommended for people who are not candidates for surgery. Pulmonary Hypertension Medication Another option for managing CTEPH is to prescribe pulmonary hypertension medications to reduce the pressure inside the pulmonary arteries and to improve the function of the right side of the heart. People who cannot have surgery or an angioplasty or people who have residual pulmonary hypertension after these interventions may benefit from taking these medications. Testing Offered at the Voice Center , we provide the specialized testing required to accurately diagnose the cause of your voice, swallowing, or breathing-related condition. Testing for Voice Disorders At the Voice Center, we provide an individualized treatment plan based on the results of our advanced diagnostic testing for voice problems. Advanced voice disorder testing, performed by experts like Dr. Aaron Johnson, offers insight into many voice conditions. Stroboscopy Stroboscopy is a way to examine the vibratory nature of the vocal cords. The technique uses a strobe light that is linked to the frequency of the patient’s voice. When a person utters a tone, the light flashes at a frequency that is close to that of the person’s voice. The result is a set of images that mimic the vibration of the vocal cords. Doctors use this information to diagnose and evaluate the vocal cords for the presence of cancer, scar tissue, or stiffness, as well as muscle tone. Voice Analysis Hoarseness is often a complicated condition to evaluate because vocal changes can be very subtle. We use a series of tests to analyze your voice and help determine the cause. Typically, the evaluation involves a voice recording, which is then run through a series of computer programs that analyze the data. This analysis provides information on your vocal quality and ability and helps us determine the best way to help you get better. Testing for Swallowing Disorders Our team may use one of several methods to examine and evaluate your swallowing problem during a visit to the Voice Center. For more information about our testing options, please call Whether it’s illness, injury, or subtle changes to the speaking or singing voice, the experts at NYU Langone’s understand that no concern is too minor when it comes to ensuring the health of your voice. Voice Center experts, including Dr. Paul E. Kwak, specialize in helping singers and actors achieve and maintain vocal health. Our specialists have a unique understanding of the professional voice. Paul E. Kwak, MD , the director of the center, are otolaryngologists who specialize in medical and surgical care for the performing voice. Aaron M. Johnson, PhD , the center’s co-director, is a speech–language pathologist who provides treatment and therapies for professional vocalists. Our patients include acting and singing students, aspiring artists who spend their days auditioning, and established professionals. They are vocal athletes, and just as in sports, vocal athletes benefit from a team approach. Our experts are uniquely equipped to manage issues specific to the elite performing voice. Diagnosis and management of vocal problems is highly individual and often complex. Our doctors conduct advanced diagnostic testing to pinpoint the causes of the problem and develop a treatment plan to get you back on stage as quickly as possible. We offer baseline vocal examinations, and highly encourage singers and actors to have this done early in their careers. This information can help us identify subtle changes in vocal quality that can impact performance. We also teach healthy vocal habits, including efficient voice use, that can help preserve your voice over the long term. We are also actively involved in into how the voice works, so we can come up with new and better ways to ensure your best, lifelong vocal quality. For more information, please call Payment & Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery After you have completed all of the steps to prepare for weight loss surgery , our staff at NYU Langone’s is able to discuss payment options. If you are planning to pay for the surgery yourself, known as out-of-pocket payment, please make sure you bring the correct documentation to your first appointment. If you are planning to have your surgery covered by insurance, you need to complete the authorization process required by your insurance carrier. NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program is recognized as part of the Aetna Institutes of Quality Bariatric Surgery Network, a Cigna Bariatric Center of Excellence, a Blue Cross Blue Shield Blue Distinction Center for Bariatric Surgery, and a HIP Emblem Center of Excellence. Insurance Coverage for Weight Loss Surgery Insurance coverage for obesity surgery varies according to the insurance carrier. Those that cover bariatric, or weight loss, surgery often limit their coverage to certain types of surgery. Insurance companies that cover bariatric surgery have varying requirements. Some may require medical records documenting that you have medical problems caused by your weight or records of your participation in medically supervised weight loss programs. In fact, many insurers require at least six months’ participation in a supervised weight loss program within two years of your proposed surgery date. Our office participates with many insurance plans. But whether we participate or not, our surgical scheduler can work with you and your insurance company to obtain authorization for your surgery. Each insurance plan is unique, and getting authorization for surgery can be a long, labor-intensive process. Prior to visiting our office, please do the following steps: Call your insurance carrier and make sure your plan provides coverage for weight loss surgery, and that you have covered benefits for morbid obesity surgery. Policies can change daily. Regardless of your insurance carrier, call to check your coverage. Keep in mind that although you may have completed all the necessary steps in order to schedule surgery, your insurance plan may not authorize it. Write down the name of the person you speak with, including first name, last name, and direct phone number. Your insurance carrier may request the name of the surgery and the CPT/ICD-9 codes. Insurance companies use the following codes to identify the type of procedure or surgery: Lap Gastric Bypass: 43644 Lap Gastric Sleeve: 43775 Lap Gastric Banding: 43770 Diagnosis Code (ICD-10) for Morbid Obesity: E66.01 Your call to the insurance company should be for informational purposes only. Our office initiates the formal insurance authorization process after you meet with the surgeon and schedule your surgery date. Our surgical scheduler cannot initiate the authorization process until you have a surgery date, even if you have already attended our required information session and scheduled an appointment with the psychologist and nutritionist. If you initiate your surgery authorization process without having seen our surgeon, your insurance company may close your authorization case. When you have a surgery date, it may take another two weeks to two months to obtain approval from your insurance carrier. Insurance Appeals In almost all instances in which your insurance plan denies preauthorization for your surgery, you have a right to appeal that denial. Our program would not have submitted you for approval if we did not determine that surgery was medically necessary, so if the insurance plan denies the procedure, we think filing an appeal is justified. Appeals can be filed by you as a plan member, or you can appoint someone to assist you. If you intend to appeal, with or without assistance, you should carefully review and research what is needed to make a strong appeal. Center for Esophageal Health Leadership leadership team is dedicated to providing advanced diagnosis, treatment, and care for complex esophageal symptoms and conditions. Tanuja Damani, MD Surgical Director | General Surgery Dr. Damani has been in practice for more than 15 years and has completed more than 1,000 robotic surgeries, with a focus on the esophagus and stomach. She specializes in fundoplications and magnetic sphincter augmentation with LINX Reflux Management System—procedures to treat , hiatal and paraesophageal hernia repairs, and myotomy, a surgical procedure used to treat . Dr. Damani also has significant expertise in robotic surgery to correct prior failed surgeries for those conditions. She is a recognized expert and educator in the field and her robotic procedures are broadcast internationally to educate surgeons. Dr. Damani has published many articles and book chapters on robotic and esophageal surgery. Abraham R. Khan, MD Medical Director | Esophageal Gastroenterology Dr. Khan specializes in the advanced diagnosis and treatment of persistent symptoms or conditions that affect the esophagus, such as GERD, achalasia, and swallowing disorders. He has expertise in specialized esophageal and motility diagnostic procedures, such as high-resolution esophageal manometry and functional lumen imaging probe technology, as well as therapeutic techniques including esophageal dilation on upper endoscopy for swallowing disorders. As medical director of the Center for Esophageal Health, Dr. Khan oversees medical care at the center with the goal of partnering with each patient to provide integrated, multidisciplinary care. He is a recognized national expert in esophageal conditions. He speaks and teaches nationally, and his research is well published in major medical journals. After Weight Loss Surgery If you are contemplating weight loss surgery, you are probably thinking ahead to the results and what to expect during recovery. Weight loss surgery typically brings health benefits, but you may also experience some undesirable changes that can occur when a substantial amount of weight is lost in a short period of time, either through surgery or other means. , we want to help you prepare for and understand the effects, immediate and longer term, that you may experience after your procedure. Hair Loss During the first six months after surgery, almost everyone who has weight loss surgery experiences hair loss or thinning. Hair loss is alarming, but it typically doesn’t lead to baldness and is reversible. When your weight stabilizes and you consume more protein, your hair grows back. Chemical hair treatments, such as straighteners and perms, should be avoided. Nausea or Dumping Syndrome Because your new stomach pouch is quite small, you cannot eat as much food as you once did. Therefore, if you get full but continue to eat, or eat quickly without chewing thoroughly, pain and vomiting are likely to occur. You have to learn to eat more slowly, to chew food thoroughly, and to stop eating when you feel full. Overeating or consuming concentrated sweets or carbohydrates can lead to nausea and dumping syndrome, which occurs when the contents of the stomach quickly enter the small intestines, causing profuse sweating, nausea, dizziness, palpitations, and weakness. If you don’t have problems eating during the first month after surgery and then suddenly experience nausea or vomiting after eating or drinking, you may have developed a stricture, or narrowing, at the point where the stomach pouch connects with the small intestine. This can be serious—you should call your surgeon for further evaluation. Nutritional Deficiencies Nutritional deficiencies can occur, particularly in patients who have a gastric bypass or biliopancreatic diversion, which causes food to skip the duodenum—the section of the small intestine where most iron and calcium are absorbed. Left uncorrected, this can lead to anemia or , among other conditions. After a biliopancreatic diversion—which is designed to dramatically reduce nutrient absorption—patients have to take even greater care to avoid nutritional deficiencies. The good news is that these problems can be avoided by eating the correct foods in small amounts, taking daily vitamin and mineral supplements, and getting regular medical checkups that include blood testing. Lactose Intolerance After certain bariatric surgeries, lactase, the enzyme needed to digest milk and other dairy products, does not reach food in the usual fashion. Consequently, you may become lactose intolerant, leading to gas, cramping, and diarrhea. Try avoiding dairy products and switching to alternatives, such as soy milk, rice milk, or lactose-free milk such as Lactaid. Changed Bowel Habits Weight loss surgery can change your food intake as well as your digestion. Some patients experience constipation, which can be treated with a mild, natural stool softener or by simply drinking more fluids. After a biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch, patients may experience diarrhea. This is usually caused by having too much fat in the diet. If that is not the case, a small amount of pancreatic enzymes may be required to help your digestion, which can be prescribed by your surgeon. Loss of Muscle Mass Because you’re consuming far fewer calories and less protein, your body burns other energy stores to maintain itself. The body prefers to use protein-rich muscle for energy before it taps into fat. Therefore, your initial weight loss may come at the expense of your muscle mass. This is most common after a gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, or a biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch. Fortunately, loss of muscle mass can be avoided by exercising every day and consuming more protein. We recommend both regular aerobic activity and weight lifting. These activities can be alternated, but should be done at least three times a week for 20 to 30 minutes, though daily exercise is ideal and should be your goal. Regular exercise increases fat burning, builds and tones muscle, and raises your energy level. With any rapid weight loss, there is an increased risk of developing gallstones. About 1 in 10 people who undergo bariatric surgery ultimately need to have their gallbladders removed. At NYU Langone, we do not routinely remove gallbladders at the time of weight loss surgery because most people would have their gallbladders removed unnecessarily. Instead, anyone who still has a gallbladder at the time of gastric bypass or biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch surgery is prescribed a medication that prevents gallstones from forming after surgery. If your gallbladder still needs to be removed, it can be done laparoscopically at a later date. Excess Skin After weight loss surgery, your body may be left with excess skin. Our doctors can refer you to an NYU Langone who can remove extra skin, as well as tighten and contour your skin to your new shape. Gastric Band Adjustments If you have gastric band surgery, band adjustments are critical to the success of your surgery. If your weight loss plateaus, or if you continue to be hungry after eating, your band needs tightening. This is a simple procedure that your surgeon or nurse can usually perform in our office. On occasion, this needs to be done in the radiology department. We can also help you if you’ve had Lap-Band surgery elsewhere and require an adjustment. Weight Loss Surgery Support Groups hosts free support groups for prospective, new, and existing patients. Support groups play an important role for those who have had bariatric surgery and other weight management procedures. At NYU Langone, these groups provide a safe and encouraging environment in which people managing their weight can share experiences, celebrate milestones, and navigate challenges together. In addition, these groups may feature guidance from healthcare professionals, ensuring members receive information on nutrition, exercise, and lifestyle changes. For more information about a support group near you, visit our location pages: We look forward to hearing from you. People who are affected by obesity and have had limited success losing weight on their own may benefit from medically supervised weight loss through the Weight Management Program at NYU Langone. Our nonsurgical medical weight loss methods focus on proper nutrition, physical activity, and making healthier lifestyle choices. We work with you and your primary care physician, exercise experts, nutritionists, psychologists, and other specialty providers as necessary. The program welcomes anyone who has a weight concern and hopes to gain a sense of control over their weight. Please contact our locations to learn about the medical weight loss services they provide. Our main locations are: Nonmedical weight loss programs include meal replacement programs and exercise guidance. Meal Replacement Programs Meal replacements can be an effective tool choosing nutritionally balanced, low-calorie foods. They offer a convenient and controlled way to manage calorie intake while ensuring nutritional needs are met. These products are designed to replace one or more meals per day and are often formulated with balanced macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals to support overall health. When used as part of a structured program, under the supervision of one of our weight management providers, meal replacements can help to achieve and maintain weight loss goals. Medical Evaluations of Weight-Related Conditions Many medical conditions can worsen as a person gains weight. Weight loss is often the best way to manage these conditions, which include metabolic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes, and movement issues, such as . We help you manage these conditions while you lose weight and optimize your overall health. Women who have polycystic ovary syndrome or a history of gestational diabetes have unique vulnerabilities related to insulin resistance. Our providers work intensively with you to develop safe, effective meal plans that can jump-start and accelerate weight loss. We have several options for those who need to lose weight prior to a medical procedure. We can even help people who have tried traditional diet plans but have been dissatisfied with the results. Review of Medications Many medications used to manage conditions such as diabetes, seizure disorders , arthritis, and contribute to weight gain. There may be alternative medications or ways to manage these conditions that allow you to take less medicine. Our clinicians work with your primary care physician to suggest helpful strategies. Medications for Weight Loss that control feelings of hunger can often help you stick with a new eating plan. Medications are a tool for weight loss and work best when used as part of a comprehensive weight management plan that includes dietary changes and exercise. Metabolic Rate Testing Metabolism analysis helps to determine your metabolic rate, which is a calculation based on body fat, muscle mass, age, gender, and fluid retention. Your metabolic rate helps to determine how many calories your body burns while at rest. This information is used by our experts to come up with a diet strategy focused on consuming fewer calories than you burn in a day. The testing, which uses a body composition analyzer, is quick, painless, and does not require a blood test or fasting. Individual Meal Planning Planning out meals in advance, awareness of the nutritional value of the foods you choose, and being accountable to your goals can be crucial for weight loss success. We teach you how to create a healthy eating plan and maintain a food diary. Mindful Eating and Nutrition Planning Mindful eating is a cornerstone of our care. We discuss your eating habits, what triggers eating, and how to distinguish “head hunger,” which is wanting to eat even though you are not truly hungry, from your body’s true metabolic needs. We also discuss ways to manage stress that do not include food. Knowing how to read food labels and menus to find the best choices, as well as understanding food composition, plays a part in mindful eating. Our registered dietitians teach you how to incorporate nutritional knowledge into your busy life while also balancing your family’s food preferences. Self-Monitoring Tools The bathroom scale, food diaries, and label reading can all help you reach your weight loss goals and maintain a healthy weight. We help you figure out which self-monitoring tools are best for you, and how often you should use them. Exercise Guidance Our providers help you set exercise goals that are aligned with your current fitness level and that can be used at your local gym, at home, or in the community. We understand how difficult it can be to add regular physical activity into your busy lifestyle, so we also provide guidance that makes physical activity more enjoyable, and therefore easier to maintain as a healthy habit. Our recommendations are based on professional guidelines such as those from the American College of Sports Medicine. To make an appointment to learn more about our nonsurgical medical weight loss options, please schedule with one of weight loss experts We offer in-person follow-up appointments, or you can also choose to have an online provider visit through the . Please check with your insurance providers about whether these online visits are covered. These video visits are not covered by insurance and must be paid out of pocket. Plastic surgeons at NYU Langone reconstruct the breast after surgery and improve the overall appearance of the breast for those seeking reconstructive or cosmetic plastic surgery. We offer all of the latest reconstruction techniques, including the following: breast reduction using the short scar method, which involves a smaller incision than traditional techniques and thus has more cosmetically appealing results breast lift surgery, or mastopexy secondary breast reconstruction and augmentation surgery, which is performed as a separate procedure after surgery to remove all or part of the breast We also perform breast reconstruction using perforator flaps. In this procedure, performed using microvascular surgical techniques, a new breast is created by using tissue removed from either the stomach or buttocks. Techniques we use include the deep inferior epigastric perforator, known as DIEP, and superior gluteal artery perforator, also known as S-GAP. Our plastic surgeons, including Dr. Eduardo D. Rodriguez and Dr. Nolan S. Karp, specialize in the latest techniques to perform breast reconstruction and cosmetic breast surgery. Our surgeons are experts in the treatment of the following conditions: breast sagging, also known as breast ptosis breast hyperplasia or macromastia, a benign condition resulting in the overgrowth of breast cells breast hypoplasia, known as underdevelopment Breast in a Day Breast in a Day is an innovative surgery for women diagnosed with breast cancer and for those who are at increased risk for cancer. It involves performing two procedures at the same time in one day—a nipple-sparing mastectomy , in which the whole skin envelope of the breast is saved, leaving the nipple and areola intact, and breast reconstruction using implants. For many women who choose a double mastectomy, breast reconstruction is often performed in multiple surgeries and can take up to a year to fully complete. Breast in a Day requires fewer surgeries, which means less time in the hospital. Many women find that immediate reconstruction performed in one step, known as direct implant reconstruction, can play a significant role in physical and emotional recovery. Breast in a Day is an option for women who are at high risk for breast cancer or have breast cancer that does not involve the nipple areola, and who choose to have a prophylactic mastectomy before any cancer develops. At NYU Langone, women who choose to have a mastectomy with implant reconstruction may be candidates for direct implants instead of temporary implants or expanders. NYU Langone seamlessly brings together the best in oncologic and reconstructive breast surgery. Our breast surgical oncologists at and our plastic surgeons maintain ongoing communication throughout the planning process, and create a customized surgical plan for each patient. We use three-dimensional imaging to assist in preoperative planning, long-term evaluation, and follow-up care after breast reduction, reconstruction, or augmentation. Our breast plastic surgery services are offered as part of our internationally renowned Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. We offer innovative and technologically advanced techniques for all types of reconstructive and cosmetic breast surgery. Our Breast Plastic Surgeons Our team of plastic surgeons has vast expertise using the newest techniques to perform breast reconstruction and cosmetic breast surgery. These surgeons are available at . To schedule an appointment, please call Daniel J. Ceradini, MD Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD Pierre B. Saadeh, MD The following surgeons practice at Mihye Choi, MD Nolan S. Karp, MD The members of NYU Langone’s cleft and craniofacial team perform procedures that correct facial differences that can affect function and appearance. We provide surgical and orthodontic treatment for facial skeleton malformations that are a result of congenital disorders, trauma, and treatment for Our plastic surgeons, dentists, and orthodontists take a collaborative approach to care that includes shared doctor’s visits that allow you to meet with several members of your care team on the same day. For people with complex conditions that require intensive treatment, we work closely with our colleagues in psychology, speech therapy, and social work to help patients and families manage all aspects of treatment. Many of our psychological and social support services are available through the For children born with a cleft palate and who also experience velopharyngeal dysfunction (VPD), we offer specialized care and support through our Velopharyngeal Dysfunction Clinic. This holistic approach, which addresses physical, social, and emotional aspects of cleft and craniofacial treatment, is a key component of our care. Cleft and Craniofacial Surgery Our plastic surgeons have extensive experience with complex , and bring those skills to treatment for both adults and children. We focus on treatment that improves or restores function, while also aiming to achieve the best possible cosmetic result. Our craniofacial specialists, including nurse practitioner Amanda Young and Dr. David A. Staffenberg, provide compassionate care for children and adults. Treatment for adults often involves reconstruction after injury or trauma, or a surgical procedure to treat cancer or another condition that has affected the face or skull. We also correct or update surgeries for congenital anomalies that occurred in childhood, such as ear, eyelid, nose, or jaw deformities. In addition to appearance, surgery can improve breathing and hearing function. Using techniques to repair damaged nerves, we restore facial movement and provide pain relief. For people who had surgery to remove part of the skull, we work with NYU Langone neurosurgeons to perform cranioplasty to repair the skull and improve the head’s shape and appearance. Plastic surgery for children who have craniofacial conditions such as cleft lip and cleft palate is provided through Orthodontic Services Our craniofacial dental and orthodontic team focuses on surgical jaw corrections, dental implants, and orthodontic care for people with craniofacial conditions that affect the face, jaws, and teeth. Our dental laboratory features advanced equipment that allows doctors to diagnose underlying craniofacial problems and develop appropriate treatment plans, including the following: digital radiography for instant dental X-ray imaging advanced cone-beam CT scanning for a three-dimensional image of the teeth and jaw three-dimensional printers and simulators for predicting tooth movement three-dimensional intraoral scanning and CT scans that allow orthodontists to create customized devices used in preparation for surgery and during surgery We care for adults and children who have a cleft lip or cleft palate, developmental jaw growth disturbances, sleep apnea, and genetic conditions, such as Apert syndrome and Pfeiffer syndrome, that affect the shape of the head and jaw. We also treat those with an irregular or asymmetric smile or who are missing one or more teeth. We use orthodontic devices to treat jaws that are misshapen or asymmetrical, or that have been injured or altered by trauma or cancer surgery. We provide the full range of standard orthodontic treatment using fixed metal braces, clear braces, Invisalign, and orthopedic appliances such as retainers and other devices that improve teeth alignment and appearance. Our Cleft and Craniofacial Team Cleft and craniofacial disorder treatment and head and neck cancer reconstructive surgery are complex procedures that require a team approach. Our specialists work closely together to provide outstanding results and compassionate care. Plastic, Craniofacial, and Oral–Maxillofacial Surgery Dental Plastic Surgery and Orthodontics Pradip R. Shetye, DDS Preparing for Your Appointment To make an appointment at NYU Langone’s Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program, call us at . Please make sure to check whether your insurance requires a referral from your primary care or referring physician. Your first visit with us will be a comprehensive appointment. Here is what to bring to save time and facilitate your care: contact information for your referring physician(s), primary care physician, and any other doctors, including addresses and phone numbers a list of questions that you wish to ask the doctor during your visit your completed health history form a list of your medication allergies and current medications, including all over-the-counter medications; aspirin, arthritis, or pain medications; herbal remedies; and supplements copies of relevant medical records Some relevant medical records include doctors’ notes, letters, or previous surgery reports; laboratory tests such as blood work, hearing tests, and vestibular testing; imaging studies including X-rays, CT scans, and MRI scans. You can also ask any doctors you have seen outside NYU Langone to fax medical records relevant to your current problem to Risks & Benefits of Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, comes with risks and benefits. We encourage you to discuss these with your family and doctors before you choose to have a weight loss procedure at NYU Langone’s Benefits of Weight Loss Surgery Weight loss surgery can improve your quality of life in many ways. The constant feelings of hunger you experience diminish, and you may become less preoccupied with food. As you lose significant amounts of weight, you have more energy, and everyday activities no longer leave you short of breath. Just a few months after surgery, you may begin to feel proud of the way you look and feel as you start to fit into smaller clothing. As your focus on food lessens, you may discover more outside interests. Feelings of self-consciousness may be gradually replaced by feelings of confidence and self-control. Bariatric surgery not only helps you lose excess weight and keep it off, it also improves or eliminates most medical problems associated with . When you begin to lose weight, you can usually cut down, or stop taking, medications for these various conditions. For instance, many people with diabetes see their blood sugar levels normalize within days of the operation. It is important to remember, though, that bariatric surgery is not a magic elixir for weight loss. It is a tool to be used along with diet and exercise to achieve a healthier life. Surgery is not a substitute for a healthy lifestyle, but it allows diet and exercise to actually work. The ultimate measures of bariatric surgery are how much weight is lost, how long the weight loss lasts, the improvement in your health and quality of life, and safety. Risks of Weight Loss Surgery Bariatric surgery does come with several risks to your health. Atelectasis Atelectasis is the partial collapse of the lungs. It is very common after surgery, especially in people who are obese, to have the bottom portion of the lungs become “squashed,” opening only with coughing and very deep breaths. This can lead to problems such as fever, pneumonia, or shortness of breath. Atelectasis can be prevented or alleviated by performing deep-breathing exercises and coughing after surgery. is a blood clot in the lungs. The problem begins in the legs, where blood clots can form in the veins of the calves or thighs, especially if the legs are stationary. Such clots can cause swelling or pain in the leg. However, they present the most danger if they break off and travel to the lungs. A large clot can cause shortness of breath or completely block blood from entering the lungs, causing death. People who are overweight have a higher risk of forming blood clots in the legs, particularly during or soon after surgery. To prevent pulmonary emboli during and after surgery, your legs are fitted with sequential compression boots. They act like blood pressure cuffs to massage your legs and prevent blood clots from forming. You are also given a small dose of blood thinner, called heparin, at the time of surgery. The best prevention, though, is to get out of bed and walk around soon after surgery. Bowel Leakage Leakage of bowel contents—from the new connection between the stomach and the small intestine or between two parts of intestine—is the most serious complication of gastric bypass and biliopancreatic diversion. A leak from a burst staple line in the sleeve gastrectomy can also occur. Such leaks can cause a high heart rate, pain in the abdomen or back, fever, infection, and even death. Treatment usually entails antibiotic therapy or surgical repair, depending on the size of the leak. In the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, a new stomach pouch is made from the top of the stomach, and the rest of the organ is detached and left alone. The stomach remnant remains alive, but it shrinks in size. In rare instances, a blockage can develop in the stomach remnant, causing a backup of fluid and leakage of bowel contents. This condition can be difficult to diagnose because it does not cause vomiting. If it occurs, you need to have an abdominal CT scan. If your stomach is found to be inflated, you are given local anesthesia, and it is deflated with a small needle. Difficulty Eating In gastric bypass surgery, the connection between the new stomach pouch and the intestine is created using a stapling technique. As with all surgical healing, a scar forms. Sometimes, this scar can tighten around the connection and cause it to narrow to a point where food cannot pass through. This problem typically occurs four to six weeks after surgery. It can be corrected by stretching the narrowed opening, which is done endoscopically. A gastroenterologist inserts a tube down your throat while you are lightly sedated to widen the opening. In people who have had a sleeve gastrectomy, the banana-shaped stomach may become too narrow due to scar tissue, leading to difficulty eating or even drinking. Stretching by endoscopy may be necessary; or in extreme cases, corrective surgery, also known as , may be required. In people who have had gastric band surgery, the opening between the upper and lower stomach pouches can also become too narrow. This can be corrected with a simple adjustment to loosen the band. In rare instances, the gastric band can slip and cause constant regurgitation and heartburn. Symptoms can be relieved by loosening the band in an office visit. The diagnosis is confirmed with a barium-swallow study. If this happens, the band would likely need to be repositioned with another operation, which is done laparoscopically. A special diet of liquids, shakes, and purees for the first month after surgery helps prevent this condition. Other Risks On rare occasions after gastric band surgery, the band erodes into the stomach. This does not cause pain, but may result in inadequate weight loss. This is diagnosed by endoscopy. The condition is repaired with surgery, which we perform laparoscopically. As with any operation, the incision site can become infected. In overweight patients with more fat in the abdominal walls, the infection can be deeper than usual. You are prescribed oral antibiotics for a minor infection. Deeper, more serious infections may require opening the wound and packing it with gauze in addition to giving antibiotics. Sometimes, weight loss surgeries do not work. You may not lose enough weight to improve your health, or you may regain weight. If this is the case, you should make an appointment to see your surgeon at NYU Langone’s . Your surgeon may suggest a procedure to revise or change your weight loss surgery that may be helpful. Due to adhesions and scar tissue from the original operation, revisional surgery is more complex than the first weight loss procedure. At NYU Langone, we have some of the most extensive experience in the country in performing revisional surgery. Our surgeons and support staff are here to help. Weight Loss Surgery Options Weight loss procedures performed at NYU Langone’s include gastric sleeve, gastric bypass, single anastomosis duodeno-ileal bypass with sleeve gastrectomy (SADI-S), one-anastomosis gastric bypass (OABG), and laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, commonly known as Lap-Band surgery. These procedures are performed using laparoscopic or robotic surgical techniques, which involve the use of long, slender instruments that are inserted through several small abdominal incisions. Because the incisions are small, people typically recover faster compared with those who’ve had traditional surgery, which requires a larger incision. There is no one method that is best for everyone. Each type of surgery has its own advantages and disadvantages. Several factors determine which procedure is best for you, including your body mass index, any medical conditions you may have, and your eating habits. If you’re deciding whether to have bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, you must balance the risks against the rewards of losing a large amount of weight. It’s very important to discuss the risks and benefits of each type of surgery with your surgeon and your family. surgery for obesity at NYU Langone Register for a Weight Loss Surgery Seminar Before coming to NYU Langone’s for a surgery consultation, you must attend a free information session. This session helps you decide if bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, is right for you. One of our bariatric surgeons discusses each procedure option and the risks and benefits associated with surgery. At the conclusion of the seminar, you receive information about how you can join our program. Visit one of our locations to learn more about scheduling a seminar. Scheduling a Consultation