FCNS System Senior Director, Nursing Research and Program Evaluation Nancy Sanchez, executive vice president and vice dean for human resources, is responsible for strategic human resource initiatives, practices, and overall operations that support more than 40,000 faculty, staff, and students across NYU Langone Health. Having started her career in human resources (HR), she has held numerous leadership roles in areas of compensation, benefits, employee and labor relations, recruitment, and training. Ms. Sanchez developed an early business philosophy: build an effective team with high service expectations and a partnership with all levels in the organization. This has been critical to her goal of designing programs and initiatives that support the growth of those who aspire to assume leadership roles, while also fostering the overall development of faculty and staff. Among her recent efforts, Ms. Sanchez has led initiatives that support the vision and mission of the health system through automation and redesign of systems and processes to simplify the administration of HR services for faculty and staff, while also ensuring compliance with the exponential increase in external regulations. As the health system continues to expand, she redesigned how HR services are provided to sustain high quality and manage new challenges. Operating under the belief that the most important and valued resource of the health system is its employees, she and her team continue to focus on talent management strategy, based on a competency model, to foster the development of faculty, staff, and leadership. In partnership with leaders throughout the organization, Ms. Sanchez promotes the continued expansion of career development programs offered to faculty and staff within the newly established NYU Langone Academy, which are both interdisciplinary, as well as focused on specific mission areas. Representing the “voice of the employee,” she continues to be a strong employee advocate within the organization by building strong relationships at all levels, as well as externally by participating in national employer councils. Ms. Sanchez holds a master of science from the Baruch/Cornell Program of Industrial and Labor Relations and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from Hofstra University. Bret J. Rudy, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations of . Dr. Rudy, who has also served as NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s chief medical officer, has been instrumental in the hospital’s transformation and implementation of quality initiatives and clinical programs. Dr. Rudy facilitated the integration of what was formerly known as Lutheran Medical Center with NYU Langone Health, building a full complement of medical and technological services while implementing the same high standard of patient care for the Brooklyn community. Since Dr. Rudy’s appointment in 2016, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn has received multiple quality and safety accolades, including being the only hospital in Brooklyn to receive an “A” rating in the fall 2022 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grades and the first hospital in Brooklyn to receive Magnet designation for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Board-certified in adolescent medicine, Dr. Rudy is professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and has been on the staff of NYU Langone since 2009. Before being named to his post at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he was vice chair of the Department of Pediatrics and spearheaded the expansion of inpatient services and quality initiatives for children’s services, as well as faculty recruitment and program development. He helped lay the groundwork for establishing pediatric subspecialty services, including pediatric gastroenterology, pulmonology, cardiology, and a pediatric hospitalist program. Dr. Rudy is internationally recognized as a leader in HIV care and research in adolescents and young adults. He led numerous nationwide studies involving novel treatment and prevention strategies. His extensive research has been presented at national and international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. A graduate of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Dr. Rudy completed his residency in pediatrics and fellowships in hematology–oncology and in general pediatrics/HIV at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, where he was associate chief and then acting chief of the Craig-Dalsimer Division of Adolescent Medicine. Nader Mherabi, executive vice president and vice dean, chief digital and information officer, is responsible for all information technology (IT) activities for NYU Langone Health and for information technology’s development as a strategic organizational asset. He previously was vice president for IT product solutions and chief technology officer for NYU Langone, responsible for technology strategy, infrastructure engineering, networks, data centers, application architecture, systems deployment, and support across the institution. Mr. Mherabi currently leads NYU Langone Health’s digital transformation initiative, driving the integration of the institution’s workflows, revolutionizing the digital patient experience and clinical environment, and empowering the institution with big data and advanced analytics to improve care delivery and efficiency. Mr. Mherabi has designed and implemented many large-scale, diverse systems for NYU Langone and has extensive experience in hospital clinical systems integration, research information technology, and education systems. He has developed an operational architecture for in-house application development and integration, as well as an electronic data repository, warehouse and dashboards center, research-specific infrastructure for computation and collaboration, and scores of mid-size applications for research, education, and clinical care environments. During his more than 30 years in the information technology field, Mr. Mherabi has implemented large-scale systems for top Fortune 500 companies worldwide, such as Credit Suisse and CitiGroup, and held several prominent IT management positions including senior director at Mount Sinai–NYU Health, vice president at Credit Suisse First Boston, vice president at Citibank, and senior application developer at AT&T and Aurora Consulting. As executive vice president for development and alumni affairs, Grace Ko leads NYU Langone Health’s fundraising efforts, which support the institution’s exceptional healthcare, medical schools, and research. Ms. Ko and her team foster relationships with transformational partners and have grown donations of every level. Additionally, Ms. Ko oversees efforts to build and sustain the powerful alumni community of NYU Langone’s medical schools. Under her leadership, NYU Langone has experienced unprecedented philanthropic growth, culminating in raising over 750 million dollars annually. Since joining NYU Langone in 2007, Ms. Ko has partnered with NYU Langone’s chair of the Board of Trustees, dean and CEO, and a multitude of constituencies to raise more than 4.9 billion dollars. This work has ignited NYU Langone’s ambitious campus transformation throughout New York City, Long Island, Palm Beach, FL, and beyond. Ms. Ko’s efforts have also helped NYU Langone launch “tuition-free” programs at both medical schools, which is a major source of pride for her and the entire medical community. Ms. Ko’s work has helped the health system to develop groundbreaking medical research, bring healthcare and material support to vulnerable communities, and more. Ms. Ko has grown her department into a sophisticated, thriving team that mirrors the aspirational drive of NYU Langone. Ms. Ko has consistently earned the trust of donors, who have recently given almost one billion dollars of unrestricted philanthropic support, allowing NYU Langone to direct funds to the areas of greatest need. Flexible funding at this level is rare and a clear sign of the giving community’s confidence in our executive leadership and the institution‘s ability to find the best ways to use philanthropic funds. Ms. Ko has extensive experience designing, leading, and managing national and international campaigns. She previously served as executive director of CCS Fundraising, the largest fundraising strategy and management firm in the world, and she has experience in local and national politics. Ms. Ko holds a bachelor’s degree in English from Barnard College of Columbia University. The NYU Langone Art Program and Collection integrates artwork of the highest quality into the healing environments of new and recently renovated spaces at NYU Langone locations including our ambulatory sites. Conceived by , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, the program’s diverse portfolio of works includes paintings, photographs, sculptures, installation art, and murals, by both emerging and established professional artists. The collection is built through acquisitions, commissions, and donations of art, as well as through other visual arts-related programming consistent with NYU Langone’s mission to be a world-class, patient-centered academic medical institution. In addition to the collection, curated exhibitions of a variety of artworks are hosted at the NYU Langone Art Gallery, which is adjacent to the Sid and Ruth Lapidus Health Sciences Library at 550 First Avenue. Spot, 2018. Donald Lipski. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff The Moon’s Eyelid, 2018. Alyson Shotz. Kimmel Pavilion. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: Frank Corr Energy of Endless Universe (Ekpyrotic String VI), 2017. Mariko Mori. Science Building. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff In recent years, art has become increasingly important to many healthcare environments. Studies have shown that art in this setting can improve patients’ overall health outcomes, treatment compliance, and quality of life. Art also helps create a positive environment for caregivers, helping to reduce stress, and for employees, improving overall workplace satisfaction. The NYU Langone Art Program fosters a welcoming, healing environment that supports our mission to treat the whole patient by addressing emotional as well as physical needs. Fred Alvarez manages the program and collection. Contact him at Fred.Alvarez@NYULangone.org Current Art Exhibitions NYU Langone’s art gallery hosts regular exhibitions throughout the year. For more information, contact Art@NYULangone.org Past Art Exhibitions Previous art exhibitions on display at NYU Langone include the following: Metamorphosis: Agents of Change This exhibition features works by Boeke Lab, and artists Jaq Chartier and Laurie Frick. Inspired by DNA, this set of works uses color to develop visual expressions of life through time. Date: November 14, 2019, to February 14, 2020 In the Deep Heart’s Core This exhibition featured artworks that convey how our emotions and feelings are so closely linked to our heart and thus may influence its health, for better or worse. Artists include: Andrea Deszö, Dan Funderburgh, Cal Lane, André Lemos Pinto, Gianni Lillo, Cara Lynch, Andrea Mastrovito, Raymond Pettibon, Antonio Riello, Kako Ueda, and Tricia Wright. January 24 to April 26, 2019 Luminosity This exhibition featured a series of artworks by Cate Woodruff that illustrated light, color, and space. They were images that are not often seen with the naked eye and appeal to our sense of perception. September 13 to November 25, 2018 Victory Over the Sun This exhibition featured an art intervention by Monika Bravo that utilizes geometry and whimsical elements to create a sense of presence. April 25 to August 31, 2018 Our Cosmic Brain This exhibition featured artworks that celebrate the universe within our brain. Artists included Julia Buntaine and Laura Jacobson. January 11 to March 31, 2018 Herbarium This exhibition featured artworks that emphasize the role of plants in medicine through the times. Artists included Tatiana Arocha, Nancy Blum, Jody Guralnick, Portia Munson, Christopher Russell, Francesco Simeti, and Joy Taylor. September 7 to December 1, 2017 Manifest This exhibition featured data-driven works of art by artist Laura Splan. The works provide a new vocabulary to manifest our feelings and emotions, which are directly linked to our bodies. June 28 to August 24, 2017 Earth Rites This exhibition featured works by artist Portia Munson, which serve as a reminder of the profound impact we have on our environment, and a call to respect it. April 13 to June 16, 2017 Invisible Origins A multifaceted artist, Dong Hee Lee creates countless patterns centered on one of life’s most complex forms—the cell. Invisible to the human eye, the cell is revealed in its most gentle and simple form, a reminder of the constant yet unseen transformations within all living organisms. January 30 to March 24, 2017 Synapse This exhibition featured works by Filipe Cortez, which serve as a mirror of the memories created in the places we inhabit, and as a reflection of who we are as human beings. November 30, 2016 to January 13, 2017 Dermatographia This exhibition featured works by artist Ariana Page Russell, whose art brings to light the beauty behind dermatographia, a skin condition she has that is characterized by red or pink welts that appear when the skin is scratched. October 10 to November 18, 2016 1138385_RR00100550 Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Job ID: 1138385_RR00100550 Shift: M-F 9a-5p with 3 weekend days per month will require a rotation to 109 West 27th Street as need Department: Nursing, Ambulatory/Outpatient Obs/Gyn-IVF FGP (S440) is one of the nation’s top-ranked medical schools. For 175 years, NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history and enrich the lives of countless people. An integral part of , the Grossman School of Medicine at its core is committed to improving the human condition through medical education, scientific research, and direct patient care. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to med.nyu.edu , and interact with us on Glassdoor Position Summary: We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF. The Ambulatory Care Nurse will support the coordination integration communication implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures In this role the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling Specific activities include but are not limited to: • Performs physical examinations and diagnostic tests • Collects patient health history • Records information in electronic health record • Provides information counsel and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications including vaccination IV therapy oxygen administration provides comprehensive wound care and performs phone and in person patient triage for clinical concerns • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments procedures and anesthesia • Assesses and interprets patient information making treatment decisions as appropriate • Consults with clinical supervisors and licensed providers to determine best treatment plans for patients • Directs supervises and delegates to licensed practical nurses medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Performs other duties as needed Clinical Responsibilities • Supports the coordination integration communication implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Ensures clinical compliance with Patient Safety initiatives and reporting • Supports key quality initiatives e g MIPS Care gap management to impact clinical outcome measures • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies • Supports the missions philosophy standards goals and objectives of NYULH Departments of Nursing and FPG • Participates in coordination of on site activities to provide patient care in a healing humane and caring environment • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships • Serves as a support and resource for nursing other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence based practice • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality NYSED 2009 • Provides emergency care in accordance with organizational policy • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team • Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification Professional • Engages in self assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse • Procures and applies new knowledge related to medical treatment and technology • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice • Maintains awareness of current patient centered evidence based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Acts as a mentor to peers and colleagues • Fulfills obligation to identify and report professional misconduct appropriately Implementation / Provision of Care • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: physicians dentists nurse practitioners certified midwife physician assistants podiatrists • Assessment: Assess patients identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness condition or disability • Case finding: Identify unidentified co morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered • Co ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists physical therapists social workers physicians nurse practitioners dieticians navigators and discharge planners • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling TASK/PROCEDURE • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data • Performs onsite testing e g : POC lab testing EKG specimen collection including phlebotomy auditory & visual test psychiatric & physical risk screening fetal monitoring ante partum and non stress test spirometry allergy skin testing bladder tb skin testing and result evaluation • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care provider orders and NYSBON scope of practice • Perform procedures e g : hot & cold applications placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances casts splints suture and staple removal urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter ear irrigation • Applies and removes dressings and performs wound care • Assists with Minor and Major Procedures • Performs patient monitoring including pre intra post procedure testing medication administration medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: IM PO SQ ID IV topical inhalation ocular vaginal rectal as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies This includes oxygen therapy • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider prospective authorization in EMR • Administers IV therapy: including blood blood products IV fluids chemotherapy with proper certification IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines • Maintains peripheral and central IV lines and manages complications with appropriate certification Communication and Message Management • Ensures clinical in baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner • Receives documents and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results follow up and explanation to patients as directed by provider • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings then notifies provider for final verification • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed Health Promotion & Education • Identifies through case finding and critical analysis patient family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments • Analyzes assessment data to determine health status and nursing diagnoses • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment • Identifies barriers to optimal care e g physical cognitive language literacy socioeconomic cultural and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes Patient Experience Serves as NYU Langone Health Faculty Group Practice Brand Ambassador by upholding the NYULH Mission vision and values and promoting excellence in the patient experience during every encounter •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off •   Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging •    Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles Additional Position Specific Responsibilities: Fertility education of patients and partners To qualify you must have a A Baccalaureate degree in Nursing is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York Bachelor s degree in Nursing required Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association Fluent written and spoken English language skills. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Cert ACLS certification Membership in pertinent professional organizations NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $136,500.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138566_RR00101029 Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Job ID: 1138566_RR00101029 Shift: 3:00 PM – 11:00 PM, rotating weekends and holidays Department: Nursing, NSG – Inpatient Holding Acute (W6818) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to nyulangone.org We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings. In this role, the successful candidate assists in implementation of the nursing process by performing direct and indirect patient care to assigned patients under the supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse. Assists in maintaining an orderly and safe patient care environment and unit. Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property checklist  and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration, per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports any abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission as ordered, and as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patient’s condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the healthcare team Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended. Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Discusses personal or unit-based educational goals/plans with the Nurse Manager and/or Nursing Professional Development Specialist, as appropriate. Demonstrates accountability for supplies, equipment, and environmental support. Assists in the collection of data for the units Quality and Performance Improvement Program that includes patient satisfaction and other measures. Provide instruction and demonstrate desired skills before NA¿s are expected to undertake new tasks within their scope. Share feedback to both new and current NA¿s as it relates to areas where there are opportunities for development. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must be a High School Diploma or equivalent required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant Program, certified as a CNA and at least 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills. NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $49,721.28 – $51,863.68 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. , also known as the Perelman Emergency Center, opened in April 2014. Located at 570 First Avenue at 33rd Street, the 22,000-square-foot facility more than triples the size of the former emergency department. It is equipped with 40 treatment spaces, including 3 triage rooms, 3 resuscitation rooms, and 3 negative-pressure isolation rooms. An on-site pharmacist is on duty 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and there are separate entrances for ambulance and walk-in patients. In December 2013, NYU Langone’s longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews and Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50-million gift to create the Perelman Emergency Center . NYU Langone built the facility with flood mitigation measures that will help protect the facility against severe storms. Plans for a new, larger, and more modern emergency room began years before the impact of Superstorm Sandy forced the existing emergency room to close, but the closing afforded us the opportunity to accelerate construction of the new facility, and the Perelman Emergency Center opened 18 months after Superstorm Sandy hit. The Perelman Emergency Center maximizes clinical efficiencies and new technologies in emergency medicine. Its main features include: spacious treatment rooms and bedside registration state-of-the-art imaging facilities for quick testing and diagnosis efficient intake and discharge processes to make treatment areas available sooner for incoming patients new KiDS Emergency Department , which provides a child-focused and family-centered environment expedited service for less urgent, non-acute patients direct access to NYU Langone’s , a nationally recognized program The Perelman Emergency Center was designed to be flexible and scalable so that its space can be adapted to fluctuations in patient volume. Since opening, it has already been enhanced with the addition of five patient treatment bays in December 2017, and another two treatment bays in June 2018. 1138316_RR00100700 Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU Job ID: 1138316_RR00100700 Facility: NYU Langone Hospitals Shift: day/night rotation, 11.5-hour shifts Department: Physician Assistants, MICU-APP (H1814) NYU Langone Hospitals is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center, known for its excellence in clinical care, research, and education. It comprises more than 200 locations throughout the New York area, including five inpatient locations a children’s hospital three emergency rooms and a level 1 trauma center. Also part of NYU Langone Health is the , a National Cancer Institute designated comprehensive cancer center, and , which since 1841 has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. nd interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision coordination and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care performance of therapeutic corrective and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Langone Health Supports the mission philosophy standards goals and objectives of the institution department and clinical service Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges Prescribes medical equipment devices physical and occupational therapy and home health services per practice protocol Prescribes in patient and discharge medications according to New York State law including controlled substances with DEA authorization Physical stamina manual dexterity visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills effective communication skills creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical surgical and other specialty areas Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials including patient screening enrollment and data collection Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service Assists in the preparation implementation and evaluation of research protocols when applicable Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise Uses evidence based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals Maintains PA board certification Maintains annual CME requirement for re appointment and privileging Maintains current expertise in area of practice Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role Functions as a respectful member of the health care team Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services e g home care other facilities appointments with MDs etc Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members house staff other disciplines and ancillary services Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols pathways and other means “Physician Assistants working at the Helen L & Martin S Kimmel Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center “Hyperbaric Center” will have additional duties assigned to them as outlined in the “Role of the Physician Assistant” policy for the Hyperbaric Center ” To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor s Degree BA PA Current New York State Physician Assistant License NCCPA Board Certification BLs or ACLS PALS NRP Provider Neonatal Resuscitation Program NALS per delineation of privileges. Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred NYU Langone Health provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military