placement of signage? Are there any devices (electrical outlets, light switches, thermostats, fire alarm strobes, etc.) or other signs nearby that should be considered when determining placement of signage (with respect to height, alignment, etc.)?  Programming Documentation & Clarification The programmer should issue documents for sign vendors to produce message layouts and shop drawings. Draft documents should be submitted to the RED+F PM, end user representative, and the Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group at RED+F for approval and comments. A unique sign number shall designate floor/location ID (if applicable), designation ID and sign type ID. Typical questions to ask: What is the proper name of the facility? Are there any donor recognition signs? NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 170 2023 FURNITURE In accordance with both our Mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research and our Design Principles of providing timeless designs that are cost effective, efficient, functional and practical, RED+F has compiled a collection of furniture and accessory items that we have found to be successful at NYU Langone Health. Our goals in listing these items are to:  Streamline the design process  Assist the Architect and Interior Designer with specifying furniture and accessory items  Comply with the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, eliminating the use of formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), antimicrobials, and all flame retardants from all furniture and finishes  Create spaces that are timeless, durable, easily maintainable and cost effective  Create a consistent NYU Langone brand The Architect and Interior Designer should use this as a guide for specifying furniture and accessories on NYU Langone capital projects. This information does not relieve the Architect or Interior Designer of specifying products that are appropriate and code compliant for specific spaces. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Also, the Architect and Interior Designer may suggest other products if they believe those proposed products will support our mission, design principles, and the design intent of the project. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: A. Case Goods B. Prefab Casework C. Workstations D. Tables E. Seating F. Storage G. Accessories H. Outdoor Furniture Note: For trash and recycling receptacles see the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 171 2023 A. CASEGOODS In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical casegoods used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize casegood selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to casegoods:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  All wood office desks and credenzas are for use in VP level offices and above.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface.  Credenza and/or lectern selection must be coordinated with the NYU Langone AV/IT team. Any proposed alternates must be similarly vetted. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F A1 Private Office F A2 Lecterns F A1 PRIVATE OFFICE Geiger Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1a Levels * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Provide wood front overheads (Catalyst model). Include wardrobe if possible. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 172 2023 Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1b EE6 * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Provide wood or glass front overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. F A1 PRIVATE OFFICE (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1c Canvas * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide laminate or metal overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1d Answer * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide laminate or metal overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. Three h Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1e Premier * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide overheads and wardrobe if possible. Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1f Expansion * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide overheads and wardrobe if possible. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 173 2023 F A2 LECTERNS Custom Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2a Custom * Location: Lecture Hall / Auditorium Remarks: Consult with AV/IT and RED+F for lectern design and drawings. F B2 LECTERNS (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2b High Tech Lectern / Column * Location: Seminar / Multipurpose Room Remarks: Consult with AV/IT and RED+F for lectern requirements and preferred model. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 174 2023 B. PREFAB CASEWORK In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical prefabricated casework used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize casework selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to casework:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F B1 Prefab Casework F B2 Casework Hardware F B1 PREFAB CASEWORK Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1a Ethospace * Location: Nurse / MA Station Remarks: OFS Carolina Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1b Mile Marker * * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing Exam Room / Patient Room Family Lounge / Waiting / Pantry / Lactation Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 175 2023 Dirtt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1c Dirtt Casework * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing / Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1d Mora * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing / Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. Groupe Lacasse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1e Neocase * Location: Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. F B2 CASEWORK HARDWARE Hafale Model / Finish Clinical Non ClinicalF B2a Veranda Bar Handle #117.05.600/ #304 Stainless Steel * Location: Casework Remarks: 3.78” hole spacing, 5.74” length, 1.45” depth, 0.55” thickness NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 176 2023 C. WORKSTATIONS In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical workstations used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize workstation selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to workstations:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface.  Vertical storage is preferred to overhead storage. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. F C1 WORKSTATIONS Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1a Answer * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1b Canvas * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 177 2023 Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1c Leverage * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. F C1 WORKSTATIONS (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Three h Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1d Multistations+ * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Laminate only. CBR Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1e Standard * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 178 2023 D. TABLES In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical tables used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager, NYU Langone AV/IT and the Design Studio to finalize table selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to tables:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Table selection must be coordinated with the NYU Langone AV/IT team. Any proposed alternates must be similarly vetted.  Coordinate power/data troughs and core drill requirements with the NYULH Furniture Dealer, Architect or NYU Langone AV/IT.  Plug in tables in public areas must be UL approved and have USB and outlet options.  Occasional tables in public areas must be provided with power and data.  Furnishings for In Patient Rooms have been evaluated by Nursing, Epidemiology, Facilities Operations, Environmental Services, Rehabilitation Medicine and Sustainability. All proposed alternates must be similarly vetted. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F D1 Conference Tables with Integrated Technology F D2 Conference Tables without Power F D3 Self Check in Tables (where built in counter is not feasible) F D4 Height Adjustable Bases F D5 Training Tables F D6 Café Tables F D7 Occasional Tables with Power / USB Outlets F D8 Occasional Tables without Power F D9 Patient Tables NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 179 2023 F D1 CONFERENCE TABLES WITH INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1a Trace * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Typical table approved for NYU Langone Health; Floor stub ups to be noted as “VIF”. Final location to be identified in field by NYULH Furniture Dealer. Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1b a.k.a. wall * Location: Conference Room / Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Top and base ordered separately. Bullnose end for top available. Coordinate base location with power and data feeds. Provide ganging kit to attach table to credenza/wall assembly unit. Salamander Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1c Unifi Huddle * Location: Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coordinate finish selection with RED+F. Salamander Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1d Unifi Huddle Lite * Location: Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coordinate finish selection with RED+F. Notes: 1. Conference Rooms with occupancy of 12 or more persons require a trash/recycling credenza. Refer to the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 180 2023 F D2 CONFERENCE TABLES WITHOUT INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2a Convene * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Floor stub ups to be noted as “VIF”. Final location to be identified in field by NYULH Furniture Dealer. Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coalesse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2b SW1 * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2c Elite * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. F D2 CONFERENCE TABLES WITHOUT INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2d Universal * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 181 2023 Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2e Everywhere * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Notes: 1. Conference Rooms with occupancy of 12 or more persons require a trash/recycling credenza. Refer to the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information. F D3 SELF CHECK IN TABLES (where built in counter is not feasible) Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D3a Avelina * Location: Self Check in Kiosks Remarks: Permitted for self check in kiosks only when built in millwork counter is not feasible (Approval by RED+F required). Single station: 30”w x 20”d x 34”h w/ 1x PP1 DC* Double station: 60”w x 20”d x 34” w/ 2x PP1 DC* Triple station: 90”w x 20”d x 34”h w/ 3x PP1 DC* * PP1 DC power/data accessories shall be nickel finish, inclusive of female/female data port, and located 4” o.c. from back of table, 15” o.c. from either end of table, and 30” o.c. between units where more than 1 is provided. F D4 HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE BASES Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4a Ology * Location: Workstation Remarks: Worksurface height range is 22.6” 48.7”. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 182 2023 Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4b Renew * Location: Workstation Remarks: Worksurface height range is 22” 48”. Electric extended. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. F D4 HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Gen2 Office Furniture Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4c Gen2 Up * Location: Workstation Remarks: Work surface height range is 25 50”. 1” leveling glides can add up to 3 3/4” of adjustment. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. Worksurface not included. Humanscale Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4d Float * Location: Workstation Remarks: Pneumatic, power not required. Worksurface not included. Humanscale Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4e Efloat Go 2.0 * Location: Workstation Remarks: Accommodates worksurfaces 48” 72” long x 24” 30" deep. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. Worksurface not included. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 183 2023 F D5 TRAINING TABLES Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5a Fleet * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Nesting training tables available with optional ganging connectors, variety of table leg configurations and power/data accessories. Halcon Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5b Skill * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Nesting training tables available with optional ganging connectors, variety of table leg configurations and power/data accessories. F D5 TRAINING TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Senator Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5c Array * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Rectangular C Leg, flip top table Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5d Flirt * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 184 2023 F D6 CAFÉ TABLES Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6a Atlantis Series Table & Disc w/ Cover base * Location: Cafeteria / Public Spaces / Administrative Spaces Remarks: Spec with Krystal Cast for Cafeteria / Public Spaces. Spec with formica for Administrative use. Coor’d edge detail w/ RED+F. F D6 CAFÉ TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6b Everywhere * Location: Cafeteria / Public Spaces / Administrative Spaces Remarks: Leland Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6c M2 * Location: Staff Lounge / Cafeteria Remarks: Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6d Universal * Location: Staff Lounge / Administrative Spaces Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 185 2023 F D7 OCCASIONAL TABLES (WITH POWER / USB OUTLETS) Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D7a Adler Drum * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Spec with side power/data port installation only. Must spec mouse hole when plugging into wall outlet. Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Stainless Steel Outlet: COV 2US V Black Outlet: COV 2UB V Gloss White Outlet: COV2UW V Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D7b Abbott Cube * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Spec with side power/data port installation only. Must spec mouse hole when plugging into wall outlet. Spec plinth for use with floor outlet. Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Stainless Steel Outlet: COV 2US V Black Outlet: COV 2UB V Gloss White Outlet: COV2UW V F D8 OCCASIONAL TABLES WITHOUT POWER Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8a Chance * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top surface to be either Corian or wood. Spec at 23” or 27” high. Studio TK Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8b Envita * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as task / occasional tables and square / rectangle coffee table. Top surface to be either Corian or wood. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 186 2023 F D8 OCCASIONAL TABLES WITHOUT POWER (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Krug Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8c Faeron * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Available as side and coffee table. For Lactation Rooms provide side table with solid surface top and wood base to match approved Krug Faeron Lounge Chair (Highback). Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8d Flirt Occasional Table * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as side and coffee table Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8e Adler Drum * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8f Abbott Cube * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Coalesse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8g Await * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 187 2023 Koleksiyon Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8h Bremen * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Peter Pepper Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8i Pickup * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: 23” high portable and stackable table F D9 PATIENT TABLES Kimball Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9a Sanctuary * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Bedside table with Corian top. Spec with one locked drawer and unlocked cabinet door below. Cabinet door is handed. Specify left or right opening. Kwalu Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9b Auburn * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Bedside table with Corian top. Spec with one locked drawer and unlocked cabinet door below. Cabinet door is handed. Specify left or right opening. Stryker Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9c Tru Fit Overbed Table * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Overbed Table. Do not spec with drawers or flip surface. Provide w/ u base. ICU/PACU Split Top w/ Vanity #3150 000 300 Other Split Top w/o Vanity #3150 000 200 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 188 2023 MedViron Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9d Guardian Bassinet * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Kimball Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9e Aidin * Location: Infusion Remarks: Tops available in soft rectangle or D shape; top materials include ¾” thick TFL/HPL w/ matching 2mm rim, or 1” thick 3DL; optional spill groove with cup holder is available on 3DL tops; pneumatic height adjustment on base is 28.5” 44.25”; two locking / two non locking white with grey, dual wheel casters; platinum metallic finish on base with textured aluminum column NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 189 2023 E. SEATING In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical seating used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize seating selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to seating:  All task seating selections must allow for ergonomic adjustments, such as adjustable arm heights, seat depths, seat heights, etc.  Provide seating selections with hard casters for carpeted areas and soft casters for hard floor surface areas.  of all seating in Waiting Areas must meet Bariatric seating requirements.  Mesh and upholstery shall be PVC free. Consider silica as an alternative upholstery fabric.  Foam shall be formaldehyde free.  Use manufacturer’s graded in upholstery for items identified as Cost saving Alternatives. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F E1 Conference Seating F E2 Task Chairs F E3 Task Stools F E4 Private Office Guest Seating F E5 Stacking / Nesting Seating F E6 Café / Staff Lounge Seating F E7 Waiting Area Lounge Seating F E8 Waiting Area Tandem Seating with Power / USB Outlets F E9 Waiting Area Tandem Seating without Power F E10 Bench Seating F E11 Banquet Seating F E12 Clinical Guest Seating F E13 Specialty Seating F E14 Recliners F E15 Inpatient Sleepers NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 190 2023 F E1 CONFERENCE SEATING Keilhauer Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E1a Vanilla #5462 * Location: Conference Rooms (NYU Langone Health Preferred) Remarks: Mid back, slim line, polished aluminum arm and base. Use sloped arm version. Coordinate arm heights with table heights to avoid conflict. 300 lb. capacity Keilhauer Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E1b 6C * Location: Conference Rooms Remarks: Coordinate arm heights with table heights to avoid conflict. 300 lb. capacity F E1 CONFERENCE SEATING (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Keilhauer Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E1c Vanilla #5531 * Location: Conference Rooms Remarks: Low back, border with piping, black urethane arm. Use sloped arm version when not using urethane arm cap. Coordinate arm heights with table heights to avoid conflict. 300 lb. capacity VIA Seating Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E1d Proform 171 * Location: Conference Rooms Remarks: Mid back w/ 97A contemporary cantilever arm. Coordinate arm heights with table heights to avoid conflict. 300 lb. capacity NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 191 2023 F E2 TASK CHAIRS Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2a Aeron * Location: Private Office / Workstation Remarks: Typical model #AER1B23DW ALP. Typical model includes Aeron B size standard height range chair with adjustable tilt lumbar and seat angle and non upholstered fully adjustable arms. 300 lb. capacity (size A) and 350 lb. capacity (sizes B and C) Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2b Gesture* * * Location: Private Office / Workstation / Clinical Workstation Remarks: Typical model #442A30. Specify w/ upholstery, shell back, adjustable seat depth, 360 degree arms, 5” pneumatic seat height adjustment. Fully upholstered back required at clinical workstations. 400 lb. capacity Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2c Leap* * Location: Private Office / Workstation Remarks: Typical model #46216179. Specify w/ height, width, pivot, depth adjustable arms; lumbar option; 5” pneumatic seat height adjustment. 400 lb. capacity Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2d Think* * Location: Private Office / Open Workstation / Reading Room / Dry Laboratory Workstation Remarks: Typical model #465A000. Provide with height, width, pivot, depth adjustable arms, adjustable seat depth and sliding lumbar support. Fully upholstered option preferred for management offices. Mesh back option preferred for all other locations. 400 lb. capacity NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 192 2023 Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2e Amia* * * Location: Private Office / Open Workstation / Clinical Workstation / Wet Laboratory Workstation Remarks: Typical model #4821410U. Provide with height, width, pivot, depth adjustable arms; live lumbar feature and 5” high seat range. Fully upholstered back required at clinical and laboratory workstations. 400 lb. capacity Haworth Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2f Zody* * Location: Private office / Open Workstation Remarks: Typical model # SZT 20 721MA5 Provide with PAL back system, 4D arms, tension tilt control, multi position backstop. Model above is standard with plastic base and hard casters. 250 lb. capacity F E2 TASK CHAIRS (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) AllSeating Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2g YouToo * Location: Private office / Open Workstation Remarks: Typical model #85040 4D BKN 21R SS BHA AWK LH KD F PBLA AS. Provide medium seat, 4D arms, mid back, seat slider, adjustable width bracket knob, back height adjustment, standard lumbar. Highback version “You” shall be used only when deemed necessary as part of an ergonomic assessment / request. 350 lb. capacity Humanscale Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2h Liberty* * Location: Private office / Open Workstation Remarks: Typical model #L111BM10FT10. 300 lb. capacity NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 193 2023 SitOnIt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E2i Vectra * Location: Private office / Open Workstation Remarks: Typical model #1073 BK2 MB L/E3 AR9. Provide with high back, 8 way arms, graphite frame, standard cylinder, advanced synchro mechanism with seat depth adjustment. 300 lb. capacity Notes: 1. End user trial required prior to specification of task chair and/or headrest. 2. Caster selection must be coordinated with floor finish at chair location. 3. * next to model name indicates availability of headrest. F E3 TASK STOOLS Keilhauer Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E3a Sky * Location: Clinical Use Remarks: Typical model #2ST312. Available with or without back. If provided, back shall be fully upholstered. Provide w/ alum. base, hand activated upholstered seat, medium seat height (17.5” 25.25”). Coordinate use with height adjustability range. Use siliform for Clean Room or Pharmacy drug mixing. Breaking mechanism optional (can be retrofitted on site). 273 lb. capacity HAG Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E3b Capisco * * Location: Clinical Use / Wet Lab Benching / Wet Lab Workstations Remarks: Back and seat shall be fully upholstered. Provide w/ alum. base and hand activated seat. Available with/without removable footring and in a range of heights. 250 lb. capacity. Confirm model #s w/ RED+F. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 194 2023 Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E3c Amia * * Location: Wet Laboratory Benching Remarks: Typical model #4827410U. Provide with height, width, pivot, depth adjustable arms (if requested by user); live lumbar feature and 5” high seat range. Seat height adjustment between 23” 31”. Fully upholstered back version only. For Laboratory Workstations, specify coordinating Amia chair with fully upholstered back. 400 lb. capacity Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E3d Think * Location: Dry Laboratory Benching Remarks: Typical model #465B000. Provide with height, width, pivot, depth adjustable arms, adjustable seat depth and sliding lumbar support. Seat height adjustment between 22.5” 32”. Fully upholstered back version only. For Dry Laboratory Workstations, specify coordinating Think chair with fully upholstered back. 400 lb. capacity F E4 PRIVATE OFFICE GUEST SEATING Geiger Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4a Bumper * Location: Private Office Remarks: 300 lb. capacity Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4b Nios Guest * Location: Private Office Remarks: 300 lb. capacity; no wallsaver NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 195 2023 Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4c Bindu * Location: Private Office Remarks: 300 lb. capacity Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4d Helium * Location: Private Office Remarks: 275 lb. capacity Krug Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4e Karma * Location: Private Office Remarks: 500 lb. capacity Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4f Wrapp * Location: Private Office / Collaboration Areas Remarks: 275 lb. capacity Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4g Sitara * Location: Private Office Remarks: 300 lb. capacity with wall saver NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 196 2023 F E4 PRIVATE OFFICE GUEST SEATING (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4h Collaboration * Location: Private Office Remarks: 275 lb. capacity SitOnIt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4i Cora * Location: Private Office Remarks: Wall saver; midsize 26” and bariatric 30” options available. Standard capacity is 500 lb. Midsize version will provide 600 lb. capacity. Bariatric option will provide 750 lb. capacity. Source International Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E4j Font * Location: Private Office Remarks: Provide with Script arms. 500 lb. capacity F E5 STACKING / NESTING SEATING Kusch Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E5a Sevilla SEV4 * Location: Conference Room / Training Room / Multipurpose Room / Seminar Remarks: Stacking armchair with bright chrome frame and arms. Standard with plastic glides. 300 lb. capacity NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 197 2023 Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF E5b Caper * Location: Conference Room /