Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 1 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To ensure the safety of building occupants, staff, contractor personnel and members of the public during construction, demolition, and abatement at NYU Langone facilities. To comply with: federal, state and local regulations applicable National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, including NFPA 101: Life Safety Code (2012) and NFPA 241: Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations (2009), in NYS Article 28 facilities and similarly regulated facilities in other jurisdictions. all safety, health and equipment requirements set forth in the contract and NYU Langone design guidelines all referenced NYU Langone safety policies all safety and security requirements of the building owner/manager where NYU Langone leases space POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to:  All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities.  All employees, contractors, vendors and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Definitions 2.1 ACSP: Authorized Construction Safety Professional. A construction safety professional from, or authorized by, Environmental Health and Safety’s (EH&S) Construction Safety group. 2.2 Competent person: A person who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings, or working conditions which are Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 2 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous to workers, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. 2.3 Complex task: Any potentially hazardous task that requires specific competencies, such as structural engineering expertise, complex crane hoist/lift expertise, or industrial hygiene expertise, for safe and successful completion. Examples include, but are not limited to:  confined space entry  crane and rigging operations  structural demolition  excavation  hazardous substance abatement 2.4 Construction: Includes abatement, alteration, demolition, erection and renovation work, but excludes operations and maintenance (O&M) work. 2.5 Controlling contractor (Contractor): A prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for construction of the project (e.g. planning, quality, and completion). 2.6 Facilities trade staff: Includes forepersons, mechanics, helpers, maintenance workers, etc. 2.7 Manager: The Facilities/Engineering manager or Real Estate manager. 2.8 Occupant impact task: Any task that presents a probability of negative impact to building occupants, infrastructure or NYULH operations, without appropriate coordination and controls. This includes, but is not limited to, tasks that could:  create noise or vibration above ambient levels  impact occupant life safety, e.g. by modifying egress or impairing fire protection systems  impact occupant utilities, e.g. through shutdowns  release air contaminants, e.g. dust, mold, gases, or vapors, outside of the work area 2.9 PM: The NYULH construction project manager. 2.10 Potentially hazardous task: Any task that presents a substantial probability of death, serious physical harm, or significant impairment to health without appropriate safety or health protective measures. Examples include, but are not limited to, tasks that could result in:  being caught in an excavation cave in Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 3 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  being exposed to energized equipment  being overexposed to health hazards  being struck by an object  falling to a lower level  working on routine tasks that have become non routine due to unexpected occurrences such as equipment breakdowns, weather conditions, or changes in the project specific safety plan. 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 EH&S is responsible for:  Developing the Construction Safety program (the program) and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Training relevant groups, including Facilities, Real Estate and RED+F Design and Construction, on the requirements of the program.  Issuing Construction Safety permits and Interim Life Safety plans.  Functioning as a consultant on an as needed basis for construction safety issues.  Conducting quality assurance (QA) inspections of construction sites to verify that appropriate measures have been implemented.  Maintaining a list of third party ACSPs. 3.2 Vice Presidents (VPs) and Senior Directors of Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, as applicable, are responsible for:  Implementing the Program within their divisions.  Ensuring all requirements of the policy are followed.  Ensuring personnel who are covered by this program are trained on its requirements. 3.3 PMs and Managers are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 4 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  Incorporating the requirements of the policy into the contract or work specifications.  Obtaining necessary environmental surveys (e.g. asbestos, lead, soil) prior to the start of work and performing any necessary abatement.  Reviewing the safety requirements for the work with employees and contractors and ensuring they comply with this policy.  Requesting all necessary NYULH permits and shutdowns in advance of the work.  Planning and coordinating work with Facilities Management, the building manager, management of impacted occupied areas and other necessary departments (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC), EH&S, Security) 3.4 PMs are also responsible for:  Conducting daily inspections of the work area unless otherwise approved by RED+F leadership. 3.5 Facilities Forepersons and Contractors are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Ensuring employees and contractor personnel have the required training and certifications.  Planning the work, regularly inspecting the work area and directly supervising potentially hazardous work, to ensure it is performed in a safe manner.  Verifying necessary shutdowns are in place prior to the start of work.  Stopping work to address an unsafe condition.  Immediately notifying the PM or manager of any unsafe conditions or incidents. 3.6 Contractors are also responsible for:  Providing employees and subcontractor personnel with a site specific orientation prior to their starting work. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 5 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  Complying with building management requirements at leased sites. 3.7 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Only undertaking work that they are trained and qualified to perform.  Performing work in a safe and prudent manner.  Stopping work that poses an imminent danger to themselves or others and notifying their foreperson.  Immediately notifying their foreperson of an unsafe condition or incident. 4.0 General Requirements and Orientation 4.1 The PM or manager shall verify that the contractor superintendent responsible for on site supervision of the work has completed the NYULH required American Society of Healthcare Engineers (ASHE) Health Care Construction and OSHA 30 hour construction courses. 4.2 On applicable construction projects in New York City (NYC), the contractor shall ensure that all construction personnel working on the site submit completion documentation for the safety training required under section 3321 of the New York City Building Code. 4.3 Contractor shall provide all personnel with an orientation prior to the start of work. This orientation shall cover all items in the NYULH Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel (see Appendix A), site specific conditions (e.g. status of fire protection systems, etc.), rules established by the contractor, any building management safety and security requirements, and the emergency evacuation procedures for the work site (e.g., an explanation of RACE and PASS, the location of fire alarm pull stations, and evacuation routes). 4.4 The contractor shall maintain a daily log containing the name and contact number for each worker on site. 5.0 Pre project and Pre task Safety and Health Planning 5.1 Managers, contractors and forepersons shall incorporate pre project and pre task health and safety planning into its planning process, consistent with American National Standards Institute/American Society of Safety Professionals Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 6 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 (ANSI/ASSP) Standard A10.1 2011, Pre Project and Pre task Safety and Health Planning.  Note: NYULH may grant exceptions to the literal requirements for pre project and pre task planning, e.g., in cases of practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships. These exceptions may permit use of other methods, but only when it is clearly indicated and documented that the chosen alternative methods provide adequate safety and health protection. 5.2 As part of the pre project planning process, contractor shall submit to the PM a project specific plan which addresses the impact of safety and health on applicable critical topics, including, but not limited to:  Isolation of construction areas from occupied areas, including fire protection and infection control measures  Site access/egress, material delivery and waste out routes  Site security and illumination  Protection of NYULH facilities and adjacent buildings and property from construction operations  Public protection (e.g., temporary walkways, ramps, sidewalk bridges, lighting, signage, and traffic control)  Fall prevention and protection (of persons and material)  Site shanties and offices  Worker sanitary, washroom, and changing facilities  Onsite first aid, emergency eye wash and shower facilities  Decontamination facilities  Storage of combustibles, chemicals, flammable liquids, and compressed gas cylinders  Protection of existing site utilities  Materials handling  Control of environmental hazards  Location of crane(s), hoist(s), powered mobile and stationary equipment  Inclement weather protection plan  Emergency evacuation plan The PM will solicit input from an ACSP as needed. 5.3 Contractor shall develop a project specific health and safety plan, which includes provisions for addressing complex tasks, occupant impact tasks, and potentially hazardous tasks. Contractor shall submit the plan to the PM, who will solicit input from an ACSP as needed. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 7 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 5.4 Managers, forepersons and contractors shall conduct pre task safety and health planning for complex tasks, occupant impact tasks, and potentially hazardous tasks. They shall solicit input from an ACSP as needed. 5.4.1 A written task hazard analysis shall be completed in advance of work on any complex or potentially hazardous task. All task hazard analyses shall occur as close to the time the task will begin as is feasible. 5.4.2 The competent person responsible for supervising and performing each complex, potentially hazardous, and occupant impact task shall be identified. 5.4.3 Responsibility for implementation of safety and health control measures established for each complex, potentially hazardous, and occupant impact task shall be assigned. 5.4.4 Each affected supervisor and all affected workers shall be informed about the task hazard analysis and required to participate in the process. Participation shall include discussion on accomplishing the task step by step with appropriate work activities, communication, and personal protective equipment. 5.4.5 All workers shall be informed of how to contact the supervisor or competent person overseeing the complex, potentially hazardous, or occupant impact task. 5.4.6 Each individual responsible for performing any part of a complex, potentially hazardous, or occupant impact task shall be properly trained to perform the task safely. 5.4.7 All affected workers shall receive the safety and/or health equipment identified in the task hazard analysis and the appropriate training necessary to perform the task safely. 6.0 NYULH Permits 6.1 Before performing any work, the PM or manager shall obtain all required NYULH permits, such as those listed below. The PM or manager shall review these permits with the contractor or Facilities foreperson and ensure they are laminated or placed in plastic sheet protectors and neatly posted at the entrance to the work area. The contractor or Facilities foreperson shall monitor personnel Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 8 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 performing the work to ensure that it is conducted in accordance with permit requirements. Environmental Health and Safety  Construction Safety Permit  Interim Life Safety and Evacuation Plan (if applicable) Facilities Operations and Real Estate  Confined Space Entry Permit  Hot Work Permit  Above Ceiling and Barrier Integrity (Penetrations) Permit  Pre Demolition Validation Permit  Roof Access/Work Permit Infection Prevention and Control  Infection Control Risk Assessment (ICRA) Permit 7.0 Pre commencement Conference 7.1 A pre commencement conference shall be held, attended by the contractor’s supervisory personnel, the PM, representatives of all affected operating department(s), and an ACSP. If the project impacts an NYULH patient care or other occupied areas, a representative from IPC shall also be present. 7.2 The pre commencement conference shall acquaint the contractor’s representatives with NYULH safety procedures, and any special safety equipment that shall be required due to the hazards of the project. 8.0 Security 8.1 The PM and contractor shall ensure all personnel receive an I.D. badge issued by the NYULH Security Department or the building manager and wear it at all times. 8.2 The contractor or Facilities foreperson shall post an NYULH “Under Construction” sign on each work area door or partition. 8.3 Prior to the start of construction, the contractor shall install a keypad lock on each construction site entrance door (note: an ACSP shall assess securing of site doors in occupant egress pathways) to prevent unauthorized access. Unless the entrance door is to be replaced as part of the project, the access control hardware chosen shall not damage the door or impact its fire rating. The contractor shall program Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 9 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 an entry code approved by the facility or building manager. Weak codes (e.g. 0000, 12345) shall not be used. 8.4 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that work area, roof, mechanical room, and electric room doors are kept closed and locked. 8.5 Contractor shall enclose outdoor work areas with a solid, 8 foot fence constructed of flame retardant or non combustible materials (unless an ACSP approves alternate protection) to keep unauthorized personnel out. Doors or gates in the fence shall not swing outward and shall be kept locked when not actively manned by a security officer or contractor supervisory personnel. 8.6 The PM or manager shall provide the NYULH Security Department or building manager advanced notice of all work: 1) to be performed after hours, 2) that needs to be performed in controlled or restricted areas, and 3) that may adversely affect NYULH occupants or operations. 8.7 Where required (NYC Building Code section 3303.3, NYS Building Code section 3314.1), the contractor shall provide a watchperson/fire watch during non working hours. 9.0 Fire/Incident Notification and First Aid 9.1 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall immediately report any smoke or fire incident, regardless of severity, as follows: 9.1.1 On sites with an active fire alarm system:  Activate the nearest pull station  Call 33911 (212 263 3911) at NYU Langone Hospitals and locations with Cisco phone systems or 911 at all other locations, and provide the address and exact location of the incident  Contact their foreperson 9.1.2 On sites which lack a fire alarm system, personnel shall call 911, provide the address and exact location of the incident, and then contact their foreperson. 9.2 Contractor shall be responsible for providing first aid treatment for its personnel. In case of severe injury, personnel shall use the closest Emergency Department or call 911. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 10 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 9.3 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall immediately report any incident which impacts building occupants or the public, NYULH operations/infrastructure or involves treatment of an injury beyond first aid, to their foreperson. 10.0 Public Protection 10.1 Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall ensure personnel restrict use of cell phones and 2 way radios in accordance with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  212: Use of Cellular, Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops 10.2 Facilities trade staff and contractor personnel shall not perform work in an occupied patient room except in an emergency and with prior permission from nursing leadership. 10.3 Facilities trade staff and contractor personnel shall not perform work in an occupied area without an approved barrier in place (see sections 11.4, 11.5, 13.3). 10.4 The PM or manager shall plan and coordinate work to be performed in an occupied area with the affected clinical, research, school or administrative manager. 10.5 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall minimize, to the fullest extent possible, interactions with building occupants and members of the public. Where feasible: 1) an elevator shall be dedicated to the demolition/construction work and programmed to stop only on floors where the work is occurring, and 2) passenger elevators shall be programmed not to stop on construction/demolition/abatement floors. Elevator dispatching and programming shall be coordinated by the PM or manager with Facilities or the building manager. 10.6 Where feasible, contractor and Facilities trade staff shall use a service entrance for material deliveries and debris removal. If no separate entrance is available, contractor shall schedule debris removal and material deliveries for times when there is minimal interaction with building occupants, factoring in the noise these activities create. Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall assign an escort for all material deliveries and debris removal to protect building occupants. The PM and contractor shall review any exterior hoisting or removal of material and debris with an ACSP (see section 18). 10.7 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall protect the building against water intrusion, freezing temperatures, dust, odors, and other hazards. Contractor and Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 11 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 Facilities trade staff shall also protect windows against physical damage. The materials used to accomplish this shall be flame retardant or non combustible. 10.8 Contractor shall protect building occupants and members of the public from construction, demolition, and abatement operations through the use of appropriate construction partitions, fences, barricades, sidewalk bridges, controlled access (safety) zones, and other protective measures. Posting of proper warning and directional signage is required. 10.9 Contractor shall ensure that temporary pedestrian walkways are at least 5 feet in width, kept free of tripping and other hazards and illuminated as needed. Where pedestrians are directed into a roadway, concrete jersey barriers shall be used to separate this walkway from vehicular traffic. The barriers shall have reflectors at 15 foot intervals. All sidewalk, walkway and lane changes/closures shall be set up in accordance with a plan approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). Ramps and curb cuts shall be constructed in accordance with a NYS registered design professional’s drawing to ensure compliance with applicable codes (e.g., ADA). 10.10 Contractor shall install sidewalk bridges and/or other protective measures for the benefit of the public, workers and adjacent property where required by code (e.g. NYC/NYS Building Code chapter 33) or otherwise deemed necessary by NYULH. All protection shall be installed in accordance with a NYS registered design professional’s stamped drawing reviewed in advance by EH&S. Bridges shall not obstruct any building exits or fire department connections. An adequate number of four foot vandal resistant fluorescent or LED fixtures shall be installed by a licensed electrical contractor. The top of the sidewalk bridge shall be accessed from the building. Where this is not feasible, the means of accessing the bridge shall be secured or removed at the end of each work day. 10.11 Installation and removal of sidewalk bridges, temporary pedestrian walkways and other public protection shall be performed at times where there is limited interaction with the public or the area is closed. 10.12 Contractor shall protect elevated leading edges and work platforms against falling objects by installing toe boards and vertical netting. 10.13 Contractor shall provide an adequate number of flag persons to direct pedestrian and vehicular traffic wherever construction operations, trucks, and equipment traverse public areas. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 12 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 10.14 Contractor shall not pick loads over people or occupied vehicles. Where loads must be picked into or over an occupied building, at a minimum, the two floors below shall be vacated unless specifically authorized by the AHJs (e.g. building department, NYS Department of Health). 10.15 Contractor shall ensure that workers performing tasks while elevated above grade or floor level tether their tools to prevent them from falling. 10.16 Contractor shall secure construction materials and debris against displacement by winds. 10.17 In New York City, the PM shall ensure that an occupant or tenant (residential) protection plan is created and reviewed by an ACSP prior to the start of work. Such plans shall comply with NYC Administrative and Building Code requirements. Outside of New York City, the ACSP shall incorporate occupant/tenant protection measures into the Construction Safety Permit and any Interim Life Safety and Evacuation Plan. 11.0 Fire Safety and Egress 11.1 PM or manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  104: Tobacco Free Facilities  115: Fire Alarm and Water based Fire Protection Systems: Inspection, Testing, Maintenance, and Impairments  122: Fire Prevention  126: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials  143: Hot Work Program  145: Interim Life Safety Program  NYU Langone Facilities Operations, Preventative Maintenance and Inspection Program Policy T.01 Penetrations in Smoke/Fire Walls/Slabs and Repair of Structural Steel Fireproofing 11.2 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall not obstruct corridor egress, access to stairs, or exit signage in an occupied area unless planned with the PM or manager, and an ACSP (see NYULH Interim Life Safety Program policy). Tools, material, equipment and debris shall not be staged or stored in occupied areas (e.g., corridors, stairs, elevator lobbies). Stairwell and fire/smoke doors shall be kept closed. 11.3 Where proposed construction work will obstruct the exits or designated egress paths for a place of assembly occupancy, the PM shall ensure that an occupant Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 13 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 protection plan showing the alternate means of egress is submitted to, and approved by, the AHJ with a copy of the plan provided to the Facilities office or Real Estate department representative. 11.4 The PM shall ensure that walls separating construction from occupied areas have a one hour fire resistance rating, unless there is an active, automatic fire sprinkler system throughout the site which complies with the NFPA 13 standard (see NFPA 241 section 8.6.2). The door and frame in a one hour fire rated wall shall have a 45 minute rating. Fire rated walls shall have self stick signage or be stenciled to indicate their rating and be painted on the occupied side. 11.5 All construction site walls shall be smoke tight and extend up to the deck or to a fire rated barrier which isolates the construction from the occupied area. Where fire rated site walls are not required, the PM shall review and obtain approval from Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP, for the materials to be used to construct the walls. The use of flame retardant plastic as a construction site barrier is prohibited in Article 28 facilities and similarly regulated facilities in other jurisdictions. Exception: short duration work in occupied areas (see section 13.3) 11.6 Contractor shall ensure that all construction partition doors, regardless of rating, self close, latch, and do not have a gap exceeding 3/4” at the bottom or 1/8” between the door(s) and its frame. 11.7 During construction, the PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that existing fire protection devices and systems, as well as building compartmentation, are maintained in accordance with chapter 33 of the NYC and NYS Building codes, the NYC and NYS Fire codes (chapters 14 and 33 respectively) and NFPA 241. NYCsites shall comply with the requirements in Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2020 012 and the Fire Code Guide. Sites in Article 28 facilities shall also comply with Joint Commission requirements and applicable NFPA standards. The PM shall ensure that proposed modifications to egress, fire protection systems and compartmentation are reviewed with Facilities, Real Estate, or the building manager, an ACSP and outside of NYC, with the Fire Marshal. Approved modifications shall be detailed in any applicable occupant/tenant protection plan filed with the AHJ(s). The contractor shall post a notice at the site entrance advising of the status of the site’s fire protection systems (for example, “this site contains active upright sprinkler heads”) and provide visual markers for sprinkler heads and smoke/heat detectors. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 14 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.8 Where the ceiling in a construction space is to be removed, the PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that existing sprinkler heads are replaced with upright heads positioned in accordance with NFPA 13 (2010), sections 8.5 through 8.9. Heat collectors shall not be used as a means to assist in the activation of a sprinkler (NFPA 13, section 8.5.4.1.4). 11.9 The PM or Manager, and Contractor shall coordinate work on fire suppression systems with Facilities or the building manager. All work shall be performed by, or under the supervision of, a licensed master plumber or licensed fire suppression contractor. 11.10 The PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that sprinklers within a construction area are kept active during hot work. The contractor shall protect sprinkler head(s) near hot work. This protection shall be removed once hot work is complete. 11.11 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that nothing (e.g. visual markers for sprinkler and detection devices, cables, lines, conduit, ductwork, insulation, etc.) makes contact with, lies on, or is attached to, sprinkler or standpipe lines, hangers or supports. 11.12 In construction spaces with existing smoke detectors, prior to the start of any work, the PM shall: 11.12.1 Have the design professional or a life safety consultant determine whether the smoke detectors are required by code. If they are not, the PM shall review with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP to determine whether they should be removed or converted to 135 degree Fahrenheit rate of rise heat detectors by the building’s authorized fire alarm vendor. The contractor and its subcontractors are not authorized to disable, modify or remove a fire alarm device or system. 11.12.2 Review with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP changing required smoke heads in the space to 135 degree Fahrenheit rate of rise heat detectors to prevent unnecessary fire alarm activations (see NYC and NYS Building Code, section 907.4.3; and NFPA 72 (2010), sections 10.14.3.1, and 17.7.1.9). The AHJs shall be notified of any modifications which shall also be noted in any applicable occupant/tenant protection plan. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 15 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.12.3 Arrange for the building’s authorized fire alarm vendor to install any approved heat detectors. The vendor shall install heat detectors in accordance with NFPA 72 sections 17.6.3 and 29.8.4. 11.12.4 Once construction is complete, the PM shall arrange for the authorized fire alarm vendor to remove heat detectors and make the necessary changes to the fire alarm system in accordance with the AHJ approved drawings. 11.13 Where work may activate smoke or heat detectors, the PM or manager shall arrange for a shutdown of these detectors in advance with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager. 11.14 The PM or manager shall arrange a fire watch for the full duration of impairment to a fire protection system (e.g. fire alarm, standpipe, or sprinkler) or required fire or smoke barrier. See NYULH Interim Life Safety Policy 145, Section 4. 11.15 Contractor shall maintain a minimum 3 foot wide path of egress within the site, marked with lighted or photo luminescent exit signs with directional arrows. All site doors shall be available for exit during working hours. The site shall be illuminated at all times. 11.16 Contractor shall ensure that combustible debris is removed from the site daily. 11.17 Contractor shall ensure that materials introduced into the site (e.g. plywood, plastic sheeting, rigid insulation, tarps, and debris netting) are flame retardant or non combustible. 11.18 Contractor shall not use gasoline, propane or liquid oxygen unless specifically reviewed by an ACSP. 11.19 Any work performed above a ceiling or which penetrates a smoke or fire barrier requires an Above Ceiling and Barrier Integrity permit. Such permits shall be requested through the ATG system by the PM or manager. Penetrations in floor, wall and ceiling fire/smoke barriers, existing or created during the course of the work, shall be temporarily fire stopped by the contractor when not actively being worked on and at the end of each work day utilizing fire resistant materials until that barrier is permanently restored. Acceptable temporary fire resistant materials include mineral wool, concrete and masonry, fire rated doors/frames/access panels, U.L. listed drywall assemblies and Hilti fire stopping products. Materials such as flame retardant plywood, plastic sheeting and corrugated plastic board Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 16 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 (corex), as well as Masonite, fiberglass and spray foam insulation, are not fire resistant materials and therefore not acceptable for use. 11.20 The PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that the fire stopping specified in the current NYULH Design Guidelines document is installed by certified personnel and inspected by a qualified third party. 11.21 The contractor shall provide a mounted, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher with tag showing annual and monthly inspection record for every 1,500 square feet of space. The distance between any two extinguishers shall not exceed 75 feet. A 10lb. ABC dry chemical extinguisher shall also be immediately available by hot work and flammable liquid storage. 11.22 The contractor shall provide fluorescent or LED site lighting and enforce NYULH’s prohibition against the use of “hot” lighting (e.g. incandescent, halogen, quartz, etc.). 11.23 The contractor shall not store flammable liquids below grade. Indoor storage of flammable liquids in quantities of five (5) gallons or more require a permit from the AHJ and use of a UL 1275 listed flammable safety cabinet. 11.24 Where required (NYC Building Code section 3303.3, NYS Building Code section 3314.1), the contractor shall provide a watchperson/fire watch during non working hours. 11.25 The PM shall review proposed indoor and outdoor contractor material storage locations (including flammable/combustible liquids) with Facilities or the building manager, and an ACSP. The contractor shall obtain necessary permits from the AHJ. 11.26 The contractor shall have materials delivered to the site periodically as the work progresses, not stockpile them, to maintain egress and keep flammable/ combustible load at the lowest level feasible. 11.27 The PM and contractor shall review any proposed use of temporary heat or portable heaters with an ACSP. Electric heaters shall be UL listed. 11.28 The contractor and Facilities trade staff shall protect fire alarm speaker/strobes, pull stations and their associated wiring against physical damage. Any damage caused to these devices or components shall be immediately reported to Facilities or the building manager. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 17 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.29 The PM shall notify the contractor that smoking is prohibited in NYULH buildings (including roofs, terraces and courtyards) and within 25 feet of building entrances. 11.30 The use of torch down or other hot roofing methods is prohibited unless specifically reviewed and approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and EH&S. 11.31 The contractor shall employ alternatives to hot work on, and over, roofs with exposed combustible materials or complete all hot work prior to staging or installing combustibles on the roof. Where this is not feasible, the PM shall review the roof work in advance with appropriate RED+F leadership, the building manager (if any), and EH&S to specify the protective measures to be employed (e.g. relocate combustibles 35 feet way, protect non exposed or immovable combustibles in place). 12.0 Utility Safety 12.1 Prior to the start of work at an owned site, the PM or manager shall request a Pre Demolition Validation permit through the ATG system to ensure that all utilities impacted by the work (e.g. medical and natural gas, electric, fire protection systems, steam, plumbing, HVAC) are terminated or properly locked/tagged out by Facilities. At leased sites, the PM or manager shall coordinate this with the building manager. 12.2 Contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  133: Medical Gas Outlets/Piping  157: Electrical Safety 12.3 The PM or manager and contractor shall not perform work on any live utilities, systems, or equipment unless approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and planned with an ACSP. Work on live electrical systems shall be performed in accordance with all requirements set forth in NFPA 70e. 12.4 Contractor shall contact New York 811 and comply with their requirements prior to starting any excavation work. 12.5 Contractor shall employ ground penetrating radar (GPR) or equivalent technology to locate and mark underground utilities prior to the start of excavation. Where the excavation reaches the approximate location of a utility, personnel shall hand dig to avoid striking or otherwise damaging it. The utility shall be protected, supported and/or relocated for the benefit of the workers and to prevent damage. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 18 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 12.6 Where work requires penetrating a floor, the contractor or manager shall use GPR to detect in slab utilities. The contractor shall also use an appropriate device to detect utilities within wall cavities prior to the start of demolition (e.g., wall scanner for drywall, GPR for masonry). 12.7 Contractor shall not use existing building receptacles unless approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager. 12.8 Where a temporary electrical panel is to be employed outdoors, contractor shall properly protect the panel against exposure to water, and the panel shall be equipped with Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) breakers. 12.9 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that electrical cables are not run on the ground, through doorways, or in direct contact with conductive materials or sharp edges where they are subject to pinching or chafing. 12.10 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that live electrical panels are covered and locked when not being worked on and that a controlled access zone is in place around a live, open panel during work. 12.11 The contractor shall have a licensed electrical contractor install a temporary lighting and power system in the construction area. At owned sites, these temporary systems shall be connected to the building’s electrical service by a Facilities electrician or authorized vendor. At leased sites, this connection shall be made by the building manager’s authorized vendor. The temporary power system shall employ ground fault circuit interrupter breakers or otherwise be maintained under an assured equipment grounding program 12.12 The PM shall review and plan the installation of new, or modification of existing, fuel oil tanks and piping with EH&S. 13.0 Control of Hazardous Materials and Infection / Air Contaminants 13.1 Prior to the start of work, the PM or manager shall:  request the necessary environmental surveys (e.g. asbestos, lead, soil) from EH&S, provide copies to affected personnel and complete any necessary abatement.  request an ICRA permit via the ATG system. The contractor or Facilities trade staff shall comply with all requirements set forth in this permit. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 19 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  arrange for removal of NYULH supplies, equipment, furniture and records from the space. Immovable items shall be protected against dust intrusion and physical damage. 13.2 The non construction side of all partitions shall be washable. 13.3 Contractor shall use the Edge Guard partition system (www.edge guard.com), a system that provides equivalent protection (e.g., dust and security) or a mobile containment unit (e.g. Clean Work Booth, or Kontrol Kube) for short duration work in occupied areas. 13.4 The PM, manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  108a: Hazardous Waste from Construction and Building Maintenance  121: Hazard Communication Program  144: Lead Management Program  159: Asbestos Management Program 13.5 Managers and contractors shall:  ensure personnel have asbestos awareness training and do not disturb suspect asbestos containing material (ACM)  validate that an asbestos survey was completed prior to undertaking any work that may disturb suspect ACM  immediately stop work, secure the area, and contact EH&S or the PM, respectively if suspect ACM is found at any point during the course of the project. 13.6 To ensure the safety of building occupants, staff and contractor personnel, PMs, managers and contractors who will disturb surfaces coated with lead containing paint (e.g. walls, metal painted surfaces, etc.) shall maintain compliance with:  the OSHA Standard for Lead in Construction. At a minimum, this means having a written lead control program; providing OSHA lead training; conducting an exposure assessment; providing appropriate PPE during the exposure assessment; maintaining proper housekeeping; ensuring vacuums are HEPA filtered; providing handwashing facilities; communicating the exposure assessment results to impacted workers; and maintaining records. There are additional requirements if the exposure monitoring shows exposures above OSHA’s Action Level. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 20 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  NYULH requirements for controlling air contaminants during construction work (e.g., containment barriers; negative pressure; frequent changing of pre filters on HEPA filtered equipment).  all applicable requirements of NYULH Safety Policy 144, Lead Management Program.  NYULH requirements for segregating waste paint chips/flakes that contain lead.  All metal painted surfaces (e.g. structural members, lintels, tanks, etc.) are presumed to contain lead which shall be abated as necessary to prevent the release of lead fume while performing hot work. 13.7 The PM, manager and contractor shall comply with all provisions contained in NYULH Safety Policy 144, in dealing with lead shielding materials. 13.8 Managers and contractors shall ensure that their personnel comply with the respective OSHA general industry (1910.1053) or construction (1926.1153) Respirable Crystalline Silica standard. 13.9 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall employ appropriate engineering controls (e.g., exhaust ventilation, power tools with HEPA vacuum attachments, wet methods) when performing dust, smoke, vapor and fume producing work indoors and outdoors. A HEPA vacuum shall be kept in the work area to clean the site and for personnel to clean dust from their clothing. 13.10 Contractor shall plan and coordinate with the PM, Facilities or the building manager, and an ACSP all work to be performed in close proximity to an occupied building’s air intakes to ensure proper controls are in place. 13.11 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure the perimeter of the site is smoke tight, supply and return HVAC registers are sealed with sheet metal, and that the site is maintained under negative pressure at all times, with air exhausted directly outdoors. Where exhausting air outdoors is not feasible, the PM or manager shall assess alternatives with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP prior to start of work (e.g., neutral air pressure with HEPA units). 13.12 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall not use the building’s return air system to exhaust air out of the construction space, or exhaust air from the construction space to a clinical or other occupied area. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 21 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 13.13 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall place a sticky mat immediately inside each site door and change it as necessary to capture dust (e.g., on workers’ shoes or cart wheels). 13.14 Contractor shall ensure that the ends of ductwork delivered to, and staged in, the site are sealed with plastic film to keep dust out. 13.15 The PM shall notify the architect that all chemical products, including roofing and waterproofing, must meet the EH&S requirements contained in the NYULH Design Guidelines document. Where the only feasible product is non compliant, the PM shall ask EH&S to review the product and the application site. Contractor shall maintain a Safety Data Sheet on site for each chemical product. 13.16 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that a fume extractor (smoke eater) is in use at the point of all welding and other smoke/odor producing hot work. 13.17 Contractor shall ensure that all debris containers are wiped down and capped/sealed with plastic prior to leaving indoor work areas. 13.18 The PM or manager shall arrange for terminal cleaning of the work area prior to the return of occupants. 13.19 The contractor shall comply with all NYULH and NYC/NYS Covid 19 requirements. 14.0 Fall Prevention and Protection 14.1 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  160: Fall Prevention and Protection  163: Ladders, Scaffolds and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms 15.0 Demolition 15.1 The PM or manager shall schedule a “Time out” with an ACSP prior to the start of demolition to ensure that all necessary protection and controls are in place. 15.2 Manager or contractor shall plan and conduct all demolition work in a safe, controlled and prudent manner and in accordance with OSHA 1926 subpart T, the NYC and NYS Building Codes and the provisions of NFPA 241. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 22 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 15.3 The PM or manager shall plan the demolition of mechanical systems, including tanks and pressure vessels, with EH&S to ensure they have been properly emptied, purged and certified devoid of pressure, flammable, combustible or toxic gases, liquids and/or other hazardous materials (e.g. oil, lead based paint, etc.). 16.0 Excavation, Foundation and Erection 16.1 For trenches and excavations greater than 4 feet in depth, contractor shall ensure ladder access at 25 foot intervals. Contractor shall ensure that trenches and excavations 5 feet or greater in depth are properly sloped, benched or protected by an engineer designed shoring or shielding system. The contractor’s designated competent person shall inspect excavations daily and ensure all hazards are properly controlled. 16.2 Contractor shall protect the topside perimeter of the excavation/foundation with a guard rail system (top rail, mid rail and toe board). 16.3 Contractor shall install shoring and concrete formwork in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and the NYS registered design professional’s stamped drawings. 16.4 Contractor shall cap rebar which poses an impalement or laceration hazard. Contractor shall not use rebar as a fence post. 17.0 Power Tools and Equipment 17.1 All power tools and equipment used within buildings and on roofs, shall be electric powered. 17.2 The PM or manager shall review any proposed outdoor use of fuel powered equipment with an ACSP. Where diesel powered equipment represents the only feasible option, it shall be equipped with a tier 4 engine or a diesel particulate filter reviewed by an ACSP. 17.3 Power tools and equipment shall be used and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. A GFCI device shall be used with power tools, extension cords and equipment. 17.4 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall inspect all power tools and equipment prior to use. Tools and equipment missing the manufacturer’s supplied Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 23 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 guards, found to contain a defect or otherwise not functioning properly shall be removed from service. 18.0 Exterior Material Handling, Crane, Hoist and Rigging Operations 18.1 The PM and Contractor shall plan all exterior material handling, crane and other rigging operations with an ACSP at least 3 weeks in advance. All potentially impacted parties shall be included in the planning. These operations shall be performed in accordance with OSHA 1926 subparts H, N, R and CC, and all local laws. 18.2 The Contractor shall provide a crane logistics plan and rigging diagram and have a NYS Professional Engineer (P.E.) assess exterior ground conditions for equipment placement. Contractor shall avoid picks which meet the OSHA 1926.751 definition of a “critical lift” (load exceeds of the lifting equipment’s rated capacity), where feasible, by breaking down picks to reduce weight, or specifying lifting equipment with greater capacity. Where this is not feasible, the pick shall be approved by an ACSP. 18.3 The PM shall have all interior surfaces that rigged material or equipment will travel over assessed by a NYS Structural Engineer. 18.4 Rigging shall be inspected daily prior to use by the contractor’s designated competent person. A log of these inspections shall be kept. Any damaged rigging is to be immediately removed from service and the site. Chafing protection is to be employed whenever rigging may come into contact with sharp edges. 18.5 Contractor shall not pick loads over people or occupied vehicles. Where loads must be picked into or over an occupied building, at a minimum, the two floors below shall be vacated unless specifically authorized by the AHJs (e.g. building department, NYS Department of Health). 18.6 The contractor shall install and maintain any personnel hoist in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications, OSHA 1926 subpart N, the ANSI A10.4 standard, the approved NYS P.E. drawing and all local laws. The personnel hoist and any runback structure shall be inspected by a qualified third party upon completion of installation and every 6 months thereafter. 18.7 The contactor shall install and maintain any material hoist in accordance with the NYS P.E. design drawing, the manufacturer’s specifications, OSHA 1926 subpart N, the ANSI A10.5 standard, and all local requirements. The material hoist shall be electric powered. The hoist, rigging (e.g. wire rope, clamps, hooks with safety Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 24 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 latches, etc.) and safety devices, shall be inspected daily prior to use. The hoist is to be taken out of service if any rigging or safety devices are damaged or otherwise not functioning properly. The contractor is not to load the hoist in excess of the limit set forth by the manufacturer. A physical barrier controlled access zone shall be established on the ground and at each working level of the hoist way to protect workers and pedestrians. 18.8 The contractor shall not use cranes, hoists, suspended scaffolds or other lifting equipment when wind speeds exceed the limit set forth by the manufacturer or applicable code, whichever is less. 18.9 Contractor shall employ controlled access zones and an adequate number of flag persons to control pedestrians and vehicular traffic. 19.0 Powered Mobile Equipment and Industrial Trucks 19.1 Contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  149: Powered Industrial Truck Program 19.2 Contractor shall inspect, maintain and use all powered mobile equipment in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. 19.3 Contractor shall ensure that powered mobile equipment contains all manufacturer supplied guards and safety devices, which shall not be removed or over ridden during operation. Outriggers shall be deployed at all times. Equipment shall not be modified or loaded in excess of its rated capacity. 20.0 Confined Space Entry 20.1 The PM or manager, and contractor shall plan any work to be performed in a confined space at least one week in advance with EH&S. Such work shall be performed in accordance with OSHA 1926 Subpart AA and the following NYULH Safety Policy:  138: Confined Space Entry Program 21.0 Personal Protective Equipment 21.1 Contractor shall comply with OSHA 1926 subpart E: Personal Protective and Life Saving Equipment. The Manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  119: Personal Protective Equipment Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 25 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 21.2 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall wear, at a minimum, work boots, long pants and a short sleeve shirt. 21.3 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall wear the proper ANSI Z89 hard hat for the hazard that exists (e.g., impact, falling/flying object, or electrical hazard). 21.4 Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall ensure personnel have and use all necessary task specific personal protective equipment and clothing, including but not limited to:  Cut resistant and flame retardant gloves  Dust mask  Hearing protection  Safety glasses and face shields  Welding helmet and jacket 21.5 Contractor shall ensure personnel wear reflective vests when directing traffic and working in close proximity to trucks and powered mobile equipment. Such vests shall not be worn when performing hot work. 21.6 The manager or contractor shall implement engineering controls (e.g. ventilation or wet methods) to eliminate the need for respiratory protection where possible. 21.7 Manager or contractor shall complete a pre task assessment in coordination with EH&S prior to personnel undertaking any work which requires the use of a respirator.  Contractors whose personnel wear respirators shall provide their written respiratory protection plan to an ACSP for review.  Manager or contractor shall maintain and have available documentation of fit testing and training in the proper use and maintenance of respirators. Issue date 11/2020 Replaces 02/2017 Reviewed by S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety NYU Langone Health Construction Safety Committee NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 26 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 Summary of Revisions Revision Date Section Changes November 2020 Throughout Updates policy name to “Construction Safety Requirements”; Updates “Facilities mechanics” to “Facilities trade staff” 2.0 Adds “Competent Person”, “Construction”, “Controlling Contractor”, Facilities staff person”, and “Manager” definitions 3.0 Adds Responsibilities section 4.4 Adds requirement for contractor to maintain a daily contact log 6.1 Interim Life Safety permit changed to Construction Safety permit 8.7 Adds requirement to provide watchperson on certain NYC construction sites 10.18 Adds occupant/tenant protection plan requirement Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 27 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.3, 11.5, 11.7, 11.8, 11.12, 11.20, 11.21, 11.22, 11.23, 11.24, 11.25, 11.26, 11.27, 11.28, 11.29, 11:31, 11:32 • Adds requirement for AHJ to review proposed alternate egress for place of assembly occupancies; • Prohibits use of flame retardant plastic as a construction barrier except for short duration work in occupied areas; • Clarifies requirements for maintaining and modifying fire protection systems and compartmentation during construction; • Adds requirement for PM to include egress, fire protection and compartmentation changes in occupant protection plan; • Clarifies procedure for addressing existing smoke detectors in areas to undergo construction; • Adds section on protecting fire/smoke barriers; • Adds requirement for fire stopping to be installed by certified personnel and inspected by a qualified third party; • Adds section on fire extinguisher requirements; • Adds section prohibiting use of “hot” lighting; • Adds section relative to flammable liquid storage; • Adds NYC and NYS requirements to provide watchperson on certain sites; • Adds requirement to review proposed contractor indoor/outdoor material storage locations; • Adds requirement for contractor not to stockpile materials on site; • Adds requirement for temporary heat/portable heaters to be approved by EH&S; • Adds requirement for fire alarm devices and wiring to be protected; any damage caused to same reported; • Adds prohibition against hot roofing methods unless reviewed and approved; • Adds requirement for building to be enclosed and hot work on roof complete prior to placing combustible building materials on roof 12.10, 12.11 Adds requirement to protect live electric panels, requirement for temporary power and lighting system in construction areas Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 28 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 13.6, 13.7, 13.8, 13.15, 13.19, 13.20 • Adds requirements for work involving lead painted surfaces and lead shielding materials; • Adds requirement to comply with silica standards; • Adds requirement for PM to notify architect that chemical products must comply with NYULH design guidelines; • Adds terminal cleaning requirement prior to reoccupation; • Adds requirement for contractor to comply with NYULH and NYC/NYS Covid 19 requirements 15.3 Adds requirement for planning demolition of tanks and pressure vessels. August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 10.3 10.11 Adds fire safety requirements February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Review by Adds review by HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committee November 2016 2.2, 2.4 Adds training requirements 7.1 Adds requirement to call 212 263 3911 8.2, 8.3, 8.7, 8.8, 8.11 Adds requirements for public protection and work in occupied areas 9.2 Adds requirement for fire resistance rated construction partitions 9.3, 9.5, 9.7 Adds requirements for construction partition doors, removal of combustible materials and restricted use of gasoline and propane 10.6, 10.7, 10.9 Adds requirements to use a scanner to detect in wall utilities, restricted use of building outlets and protection of electrical cables 11.9 11.13, 11.17 Adds requirements for infection/dust control 16 Adds requirements for exterior material handling, crane and rigging operations Appendix A Adds NYULMC Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel November 2015 11.2 Specifies use of Edge Guard or equivalent partition system Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 1 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 NYU Langone Health values safety and is committed to protecting its patients, staff, contractor personnel and the public from hazards associated with construction. As a worker on an NYU Langone Health construction site, you are responsible for: pursuing safety on a daily basis complying with the law, standards and procedures following NYU Langone Health’s Construction Safety Rules proactively helping to identify and address safety concerns intervening to correct unsafe conditions and behaviors stopping work if a hazard presents an imminent danger to yourself or others looking out for co workers and helping them correct any unsafe behaviors Failure to meet your responsibilities for safety will result in strict disciplinary action. You should report all concerns about safety to your foreman. You may also report them anonymously to NYU Langone Health’s division of Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) at 212 263 5159. The following basic rules apply at all NYU Langone facilities Category Construction Safety Rules Asbestos • Prior to performing work in an existing facility, confirm that an asbestos survey was done and any necessary abatement completed. • If you come into contact with suspect asbestos containing material, immediately stop work, secure the area, and notify your foreperson. Communication / Behavior • Do not speak to patients. • Communicate with medical center personnel only when necessary. • In patient care areas, communicate only with the Charge Nurse. • Ensure all communication is courteous and professional. NYU Langone Health has a zero tolerance policy for inappropriate communication and behavior (e.g. harassment, verbal/physical altercation, drug/alcohol use, or smoking). Such behavior will result in immediate and permanent removal from NYU Langone facilities. Doors • Keep construction site, stairwell, mechanical and electrical room and roof doors closed. Egress Prior to work that may obstruct or restrict egress: • Plan to minimize the impact to occupants. • Review the NYU Langone Interim Life Safety (ILS) and Evacuation Plan prior to starting the work. • Implement all precautions listed in the ILS and Evacuation Plan. Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 2 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 Electrical • Do not use building receptacles unless approved by Facilities or the building manager. • Use a GFCI device with power tools, extension cords and equipment. Fire Immediately report any smoke or fire incident, regardless of severity, as follows: On sites with an active fire alarm system:  Activate the nearest pull station  Call 212 263 3911 (NYU Langone Hospitals and locations with Cisco phone systems) or 911 (all other locations), and provide the address and exact location of the incident In locations which lack a fire alarm system, call 911, provide the address and exact location of the incident, and then contact your foreman. Hot Work E.g., all cutting, welding, burning, brazing, grinding or other operations that produce flame, sparks or slag. • Do not perform hot work unless you and others working on the task have the required training and valid certifications (e.g., certificates of fitness, license). • Obtain a new Hot Work Permit each day, e.g., from Facilities or the building manager. • Before starting work, remove flammables/combustibles within 35 feet of the hot work area. • Implement protective measures to contain sparks and slag. • Use a smoke eater at the point of welding and other smoke/odor producing hot work. • Remove oxygen and flammable gas cylinders from building when not in use and at the end of each work day. ID • Wear NYU Langone ID at all times. Infection Control • Review the Infection Control Risk Assessment (ICRA) permit during planning. • Implement all controls listed on the ICRA. • Do not work in an occupied patient room. • Do not work in an occupied area without a smoke tight construction barrier in place. • Prior to work, remove all clinical supplies, equipment and furniture from the area. If items cannot be removed, protect them from dust and physical damage. Injuries • Report all injuries requiring treatment beyond first aid immediately to your foreperson. Life Safety • Review the Construction Safety permit during planning. • Implement all controls listed in the Construction Safety Permit. Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 3 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 Isolation from occupied areas • Ensure that all work is properly isolated from occupied areas by utilizing a smoke tight partition or a clean work booth (e.g., a Kontrol Kube). • Seal all HVAC vents with sheet metal to prevent migration of construction dust to other occupied areas. • Use exhaust fans equipped with HEPA filters within work areas and work booths to capture construction dust. • Do not stage or store tools, materials, equipment, or debris in occupied areas. Penetrations • Obtain a Penetrations Permit from Facilities or the building manager prior to performing any work above the ceiling or penetrating a smoke or fire barrier. • Wear the blue penetrations vest (if applicable) and have the Penetrations Permit with you when working above the ceiling. • Use only Hilti fire stopping products. • Seal all penetrations in smoke/fire barriers with proper fire resistant materials (e.g., mineral wool, fire caulk, U.L. listed drywall assemblies or rated access panels) at the end of each work day. • Do not seal penetrations with plywood, plastic, corex, masonite, fiberglass or spray foam insulation. Planning • Plan all work and implement necessary protective measures (e.g., for windows, air intakes, and public walkways) prior to beginning work. Smoking • Do not smoke or use electronic cigarettes within medical center facilities, courtyards, roofs, or within 25 feet of entrances to them. • Only smoke in designated smoking locations. Utility Shutdowns and Energy Control • Do not perform work on live utilities unless planned and specifically approved by Facilities or the building manager, and EH&S. • Plan with Facilities or the building manager and confirm shutdown of: − fire alarm and fire suppression system components (e.g., sprinkler systems or smoke detectors) prior to any work that has potential to activate them (e.g., work involving dust, hot work, steam, heat or physical contact). − any necessary utilities (e.g., electric, medical gas, plumbing, steam, and HVAC) prior to undertaking any demolition, using the Pre Demolition Validation Permit. • Scan floor slabs with GPR and walls with a wall scanner prior to penetrating. Waste • Wipe down and seal with plastic all debris containers prior to traveling from a construction area to an occupied area.


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 1 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To provide non laboratory* personnel with the information and training they need to work safely with hazardous chemicals. To comply with 29 CFR 1910.1200, the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard (HCS). * Laboratory personnel are covered by Safety Policy 134, the Chemical Hygiene Plan. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: • All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities • All employees, students, licensed independent practitioners (LIPs), volunteers, and vendors of NYULH 2.0 Definitions Chemical means any element, chemical compound, or mixture of elements and/or compounds. Container means any bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum, jar, storage tank or vessel that contains a hazardous chemical, not including pipes or piping systems. Hazardous chemical/product means any chemical or product that is a physical or a health hazard. Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is written or printed material concerning a hazardous chemical, prepared in accordance with OSHA’s HCS requirements and including the identity of the chemical, physical and chemical characteristics, physical hazards, health hazards, primary routes of entry, exposure limits, safe handling procedures, control measures, emergency and first aid procedures, and manufacturer information. SDSs follow a standardized format and include 16 mandated sections (see Appendix A). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 2 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for: • developing the Hazard Communication Program (the Program) and reviewing updating it as needed • upon request, assisting departments in implementing the Program, including developing of training • managing enterprise wide electronic access to Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) at NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI), the Director of EOC Compliance and Emergency Management manages electronic access. 3.2 Department heads or their designee(s) are responsible for compliance with the Program in their departments. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to: • maintaining an inventory of hazardous chemicals/products that are stored or used within the department at NYULH LI, the Director of EOC Compliance and Emergency Management maintains the inventory. • ensuring that copies of SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products stored or used within the department are maintained and readily accessible to employees • ensuring that personnel who work in the department receive information and training on hazardous chemicals/products stored or used there • informing vendors engaged by the department of the Program and verifying vendors maintain a program consistent with NYULH’s 3.3 Personnel who work with hazardous chemicals/products are responsible for: • ensuring all containers and vessels containing hazardous chemicals/products are properly labeled • reviewing SDS prior to using hazardous chemicals/products • completing training for hazardous chemicals/products used or encountered in the course of their employment duties • using hazardous chemicals/products only for their intended purpose in accordance with the requirements of the SDS Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 3 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 4.0 Exemptions The following materials are exempted from the Program. • articles, defined as manufactured items that have a specific shape and function, and under normal conditions of use, do not release more than minute or trace amounts of a hazardous chemical and do not pose a physical hazard or health risk to employees (e.g., thermometers, sphygmomanometer, glassware) • consumer products and hazardous substances, as defined in the Consumer Product Safety Act and Federal Hazardous Substances Act respectively, where they are used in the workplace for the purpose intended by the manufacturer or importer of the product, and the use results in a duration and frequency of exposure which is not greater than the range of exposures that could reasonably be experienced by consumers when used for the purpose intended • cosmetics that are packaged for sale to consumers and cosmetics intended for personal consumption by employees while in the workplace • drugs, as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in solid, final form for direct administration to a patient (e.g., tablets or pills), drugs packaged by the manufacturer for sale to consumers in a retail establishment (e.g., over the counter drugs), and drugs intended for personal consumption by employees while in the workplace (e.g., first aid supplies) • food or alcoholic beverages that are sold, used, or prepared at the medical center, and foods intended for personal consumption by employees while at work • hazardous chemical waste (see Safety Policy 108 for definition) • tobacco and tobacco products • wood and wood products, including lumber that will not be processed, where the only hazard they pose to personnel is the potential for flammability or combustibility (wood or wood products that have been treated with a hazardous chemical, and wood that may be subsequently sawed or cut, generating dust, are not exempted) 5.0 Hazard classification NYULH relies on the hazard classification determined by the manufacturer, importer, or distributor of a chemical or product. This information is indicated on the chemical/ product label and the SDS. 6.0 Chemical inventory Department heads, or their designees shall: • maintain a current inventory of hazardous chemicals/products that are stored or used within the department Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 4 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • update the inventory as necessary, at least annually • submit a current, annual inventory to EH&S, the Sr. Director of Engineering at NYULH LI, or the facility’s designee, for incorporation into the facility’s annual Community Right to Know Report (the Report). In New York City, the Report functions as the master chemical inventory for a facility. 7.0 Labels 7.1 Personnel shall maintain the manufacturers’ and/or vendors’ labels on all containers of hazardous chemical/products received at NYULH. Chemical manufacturers and importers are required to provide a label that includes: 7.2 product identifier 7.3 signal word (“danger” or “warning”) 7.4 hazard statement(s) 7.5 pictogram(s) 7.6 precautionary statement(s) 7.7 name, address and telephone number of manufacturer, importer or distributor See Appendix B for an example of a label with these labeling requirements, and the pictograms. 7.1 If an individual transfers a hazardous chemical/product to a container without a label, the individual shall label the container with, at a minimum, the common name of the chemical/product, the appropriate signal word and hazard statement. 7.2 Personnel shall ensure that an SDSs is immediately available for any container not labeled in accordance with Section 7.1 and Appendix B. 7.3 Pipes containing hazardous chemicals shall be labeled to identify their contents. 8 Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) 8.1 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure that SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products stored or used in the department are readily accessible to all personnel in their work areas. 8.2 OSHA defines “readily accessible” as meaning unrestricted access to SDSs during each work shift and in the work area(s). 8.3 Personnel shall not have to ask permission to access SDS information (e.g., SDSs cannot be stored in a locked office). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 5 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 8.4 Personnel shall have access to SDSs in an electronic format on all NYULH desktop computers via a desktop icon. 8.5 Departments shall implement procedures for personnel who don’t have access to a desktop computer, and in the case of an emergency, access to hard copy SDSs. 8.6 The most recent version of SDSs shall be available. When a new version is received from the manufacturer/distributor, the previous version shall be replaced. The most recent version of SDSs can be obtained online or through the manufacturer. 8.7 Personnel shall not work with hazardous chemicals/products until the SDS has been reviewed. 9.0 Information and training Department heads, or their designees, shall ensure that personnel receive information and training on all hazardous chemicals/products encountered in the course of their work. 9.1 The following topics shall be covered: • the requirements of the OSHA HCS • a description of the Program, and its location and availability • where to find SDSs and how to use them, including information on the standardized 16 section format • how to read label elements • operations where chemicals/products are present, and the hazards associated with chemicals/products with which personnel work • the procedures personnel shall follow to protect themselves when working with hazardous chemicals/products • how to detect exposures to hazardous chemicals/products • the signs and symptoms of exposure to hazardous chemicals/products • procedures to follow in the event of an exposure to a hazardous chemical/product 9.2 Information and training shall be provided initially, when new hazards are introduced, and when there is a change in the HCS. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 6 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • All new employees shall be provided with general information and training during Human Resources’ New Beginnings. Supervisors shall supplement this with training specific to an employee’s work assignments. • Upon request, EH&S may provide department specific training. The department head or their designee shall make personnel available for this training. 9.3 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure that all training is documented. 10.0 Non routine tasks 10.1 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure employees receive supplemental training before assigning them to non routine tasks involving hazardous chemicals/products. 10.2 Additional training shall be provided and documented each time a non routine task is assigned. 10.3 Upon request, EH&S may assist with this training. 11.0 Requirements for vendors who work at NYULH 11.1 Department heads, or their designees shall notify vendors who work at NYULH of potential hazards present in the work area and provide them with access to SDSs for hazardous chemicals/products within the work area. Department heads, or their designees shall document all notification given to vendors and forward copies of such documentation to EH&S upon request. 11.2 The department head or their designee shall confirm that the vendor has a program consistent with the Program. 11.3 Prior to bringing hazardous chemicals/products on site, vendors shall provide the NYULH department head who retained them, or designee, with copies of SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products the vendor will store or use at NYULH . Upon request, copies of SDSs shall be forwarded to EH&S, or facility designee. Vendors shall inform their NYULH contact of all necessary precautionary measures that will be implemented while working with hazardous chemicals/products at NYULH. 12.0 Recordkeeping Department heads, or their designees shall maintain: Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 7 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • records associated with the Program (e.g. chemical inventories, communications with vendors) for a minimum of three years. • training records for the duration of an individual’s employment. 13.0 Program evaluation EH&S shall review the Program at least once every three years and update as necessary. Updates of the program will be based upon but not limited to: • audit findings • changes to the Hazard Communication Standard • changes in operating requirements Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 12/2019 Reviewed by Z. Abatzis, Environmental Health and Safety M. Barrett Cheetham, Environmental Health and Safety N. Ejaz, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Safety Officer T. Fascianella, Orthopedic Hospital Loss Prevention F. Mineo, NYULH LI EOC Compliance and Emergency Mgmt. NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island LI EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) November 2019 Throughout Updates organizational references Throughout Renumbers document due to deletion of Section 2 (Introduction) Throughout Changes “employee(s)” to a more general term such as “individual” or “personnel” where appropriate (e.g., to incorporate LIPs, students, and volunteers) Throughout Changes “contractor” to “vendor” 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine Appendix A Safety Data Sheet (SDS) Sections Appendix B Sample Label and Pictograms Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 8 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.0 8.0 Minor updates and clarification of processes within Inventory, Labeling and SDS sections Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 8.0 Updates requirements for readily available Safety Data Sheets Reviewed by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, and HJD, Lutheran and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 121, Appendix A Reviewed: March 2021 SAFETY DATA SHEET (SDS) SECTIONS No. Section Name Information included 1 Identifications Product identifier, manufacturer/distributor information, emergency number 2 Hazard(s) identification Class/category, signal word, HNOC, mixture comment 3 Composition/ingredients Common chemical name, CAS, ingredient % 4 First aid measure Necessary measures, symptoms/effects 5 Fire fighting measure Recommendations for fighting a fire caused by a chemical 6 Accidental release measures Precautions, PPE, emergency procedures 7 Handling and storage Guidance on safe handling and conditions for safe storage 8 Exposure controls/Personal protection Exposure limits, engineering controls, and personal protective measures 9 Physical/chemical properties Appearance, odor threshold, pH, flash point, LEL/UEL 10 Stability and reactivity Possible hazardous reactions, incompatible materials 11 Toxicological information Routes of exposure, acute/chronic exposure symptoms 12 13 14 15 Ecological information Disposal consideration Transport information Regulatory information Not within OSHA’s jurisdiction 16 Other information Date of preparation/last revision Safety Policy 121, Appendix B Reviewed: March 2021 SAMPLE LABEL WITH 6 REQUIRED LABEL ELEMENTS COMMON PICTOGRAMS Health Hazard  Carcinogen  Mutagenicity  Reproductive Toxicity  Respiratory Sensitizer  Target Organ Toxicity  Aspiration Toxicity Flame  Flammables  Pyrophorics  Self Heating  Emits Flammable Gas  Self Reactives  Organic Peroxides Exclamation Mark  Irritant (skin and eye)  Skin Sensitizer  Acute Toxicity  Narcotic Effects  Respiratory Tract Irritant  Hazardous to Ozone Layer (Non Mandatory) Gas Cylinder  Gases Under Pressure Corrosion  Skin Corrosion/Burns  Eye Damage  Corrosive to Metals Exploding Bomb  Explosives  Self Reactives  Organic Peroxides Flame Over Circle  Oxidizers Environment (Non Mandatory)  Aquatic Toxicity Skull and Crossbones  Acute Toxicity (fatal or toxic)


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 1 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To establish basic fire prevention measures. To comply with the most current editions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, building codes, fire department regulations, and other voluntary standards. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All NYULH owned and leased facilities. − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH. 2.0 Accountability All employees, contractors, and consultants are accountable for preventing fires, through measures described in this policy. 3.0 General fire prevention 3.1 All use of holiday decorations shall comply with Safety Policy 148: Holiday Decorations. 3.2 Corridors, fire and smoke barrier doors, and exits shall be kept clear of obstructions. 3.3 Doors in smoke and fire barriers shall not be held open with door chocks or other items not designed or intended for such use. 3.4 The use of candles, incense, torches, or other open flame devices is prohibited unless otherwise approved in this policy. − Open flame devices used in laboratories for research purposes, or construction activities in compliance with Safety Policy 143: Hot Work Program are allowed. − Restrictions for use of sternos are listed in Section 6.3. 4.0 Smoking Smoking is prohibited at all NYULH facilities (see Safety Policy 104, Tobacco Free Facilities). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 2 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 5.0 Housekeeping 5.1 All staff, contractors, and consultants shall keep work areas clean, neat, and orderly, free of slip and trip hazards, with materials and supplies stored in appropriate containers and locations. 5.2 In healthcare and ambulatory occupancies, large, mobile waste carts (exceeding 32 gallon capacity) shall be attended when in corridors. − Waste baskets that exceed 32 gallons in capacity shall be kept in code compliant designated hazardous areas (e.g., waste storage room) if unattended. 6.0 Cooking/heating food (outside of Food and Nutrition locations) 6.1 The use of personal toasters, toaster ovens, grills, crock pots, hot plates, and similar food heating appliances and equipment is prohibited. 6.2 The use of personal coffee makers and microwave ovens is permitted in designated areas only (e.g., staff lounges and patient waiting areas), but not in areas where there is a potential increased risk for fire. − Coffee makers and microwave ovens shall be UL or EC listed. − Making popcorn in microwave ovens is prohibited. 6.3 Use of sternos is not permitted at NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI). It is permitted in other locations, with the following precautions: − Sternos shall be used only in areas with sprinkler protection. − A 10lb. ABC fire extinguisher shall be within 10 feet. − Sternos shall be attended while in use by an individual who is familiar with fire extinguisher use and has completed annual regulatory training. − Sternos shall be placed on non combustible mats or trays extending at least 8 inches beyond the sterno in each direction. − Combustible materials (e.g., paper, table decorations, table coverings, plates, napkins, plastic utensils etc.,) shall be kept at least 3 feet away. − Sternos shall be positioned where they will be used before being lit. − Sternos shall not be moved once lit. − Sterno lids and tongs shall be kept nearby to allow for safe and quick extinguishment. 7.0 Electrical safety 7.1 Electrical installations shall be in accordance with the NFPA, National Electrical Code and local codes. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 3 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 7.2 Electrical installations and repairs shall be overseen by Facilities (i.e., Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, or Engineering) or Real Estate, and performed by qualified employees or licensed electrical contractors. 7.3 Any electrical equipment with a damaged power cord shall be immediately removed from service, marked, and sent for repair or discarded. 7.4 All corded electrical appliances that do not have double insulation, identified by this symbol, shall be equipped with a three wire power cord and a three pin grounding type plug. 7.5 Use of three to two prong adapters is not permitted. 7.6 The use of plastic light sockets is prohibited. All light sockets shall be ceramic. 7.7 The use of extension cords and relocatable power taps (RPTs) is allowed only when used in accordance with Safety Policy 157: Electrical Safety. 7.8 Heating and ventilating equipment shall meet appropriate codes and shall only be altered by qualified engineers. 8.0 Battery powered micromobility devices (e.g., e bikes, e scooters, electric skateboards) 8.1 The use of personal electric micromobility devices is prohibited inside NYULH owned, leased or controlled facilities, with the exception of assistive devices used by persons with disabilities. 8.2 Charging of personal electric micromobility devices is not permitted in any internal or external NYULH owned, leased or controlled space, with the exception of residences. 8.3 Personal electric micromobility devices are not permitted in patient care areas, clinical or research laboratories, or hazard areas (e.g., chemical or compressed gas storage rooms). Storage of these devices is permitted in designated NYULH bicycle rack locations (see Bicycle Transportation Program at Inside Health). 9.0 Oxygen 9.1 Patients in oxygen tents are prohibited from using electrical appliances or spark producing sources (e.g., bed controls, signal cords, heating pads, razors, radios, sparking toys). See Safety Policy 202: Fire Prevention during Clinical Use of Oxygen. 9.2 Compressed gas cylinders shall be handled in accordance with Safety Policy 102: Compressed Gas Cylinders: Safe Storage, Handling & Use. 10.0 Flammable and combustible materials 10.1 Flammable and combustible liquids and products shall only be stored in approved containers. 10.2 When refrigeration of flammables is required, explosion proof refrigerators shall be used. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 4 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 10.3 In New York City, storage of Class I flammable liquids is prohibited in basements, cellars, or other areas below grade. Storage of Class II and III combustible liquids may be permitted below grade provided: − The storage area has fire protection (sprinkler) and smoke detection coverage. − The area is inspected on a regular basis (at least once a week) − Approval is obtained from Facilities. 10.4 Solvent waste rags and cloths shall be stored in approved containers and in accordance with applicable Safety Data Sheets. 10.5 Facility maintenance products and waste, such as paints, thinners, scrap materials, shavings, solvents, and caustics shall be appropriately stored and disposed of in compliance with NYULH policies. 10.6 Spray painting with lacquers and oil based paint shall be restricted to specially shielded and ventilated areas. Any tools used in these areas shall be nonferrous and non sparking. 10.7 Interior finishes shall meet the requirements of Safety Policy 126: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials. 11.0 Laboratories 11.1 Caution shall be taken when using a hot plate. − Never leave a hot plate unattended. − Do not use hot plate and combination stirrer/hot plate unit in cold rooms. − Ensure appropriate knobs are labeled with the words “heat” and “stir”. − Replace hot plates over 20 years old. − Ensure lab personnel are trained on the unique features of different hot plate models that are available. − Periodically test the “off” switch on a hot plate to ensure that unit cools down. − Unplug hot plates not in use. 11.2 Storage and use of flammable liquids or solids within laboratories shall follow the guidelines in Safety Policy 103: Storage and Handling of Flammable and Explosive Chemicals in Laboratories 12.0 Construction Areas 12.1 Fire prevention practices required during construction are outlined in Safety Policy 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 5 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 12.2 The use of portable or temporary heaters in construction areas is prohibited unless specifically authorized by EH&S (see Safety Policy 207: Portable Space Heaters). 12.3 Personal electric micromobility devices (e.g., e bikes, e scooters, electric skateboards) are not permitted in indoor construction areas. Additional requirements are outlined in Safety Policy 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements. Issue date 12/2022 Replaces 3/2021 Reviewed by M. Callaghan, NYULH B, Facility Operations W. Dempsey, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management B. Farrell, Real Estate M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety D. Rubbo, NYULOH, Engineering NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital LI EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes December 2022 8.0; 12.3 New: Adds requirements for battery powered micromobility devices 8.0 11.0 Reorders sections to 9.0 12.0 March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) December 2019 3.4 Clarifies approved open flame devices October 2019 Throughout Reorganizes policy into more specific sections 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0, 3.2, 5.1, 9.1 New 6.3 Adds prohibition of sternos at NYU Winthrop Hospital Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital December 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references Purpose Updates purpose 2.0 4.0 Reorders sections 2.5 Adds prohibition of flammables storage in locations below grade Review by Adds review by NYULH B Safety Officer, and EOC Committees of NYULH B and Family Health Centers Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 6 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 Summary of Revisions Adds summary of revisions


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 1 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE • To ensure that interior finish materials do not pose an fire risk due to ease of ignitibility • To comply with applicable regulations and consensus standards for interior finish materials POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Responsibilities Personnel who purchase interior finish materials are responsible for compliance with this policy, including selecting proper finishes and maintaining documentation. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for technical support, including reviewing flammability test reports upon request, and recommended testing laboratories. 3.0 Requirements 3.1 Interior finish materials on fixed and movable walls, columns, partitions, and ceilings • Newly installed materials shall be rated Class A when tested in accordance with NFPA 255 (Standard Method of Test of Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials) or ASTM E 84. Class A Interior Finish: Flame Spread 0 25; Smoke Developed 0 450 • Existing materials rated Class B in accordance with NFPA 255 may continue in use until replaced. Class B Interior Finish: Flame Spread 26 75; Smoke Developed 0 450 Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 2 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 • Paint or wall coverings not exceeding 1/28 inches in thickness and applied directly to a noncombustible substrate are exempt from these requirements. • Floor covering such as carpeting, when used on walls or ceilings, shall meet the NFPA 255 Class A rating. • Class A and B materials correlate directly to Class 1 and 2 materials as used in the Basic/National Building Code and the Uniform Building Code. 3.2 Interior floor finish in corridors and exits • Newly installed finishes shall be rated Class I in accordance with NFPA 253 (Standard Method of Test for Critical Radiant Flux of Floor Covering Systems Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source) or ASTM E 648. Class I: not less than 0.45 watts per square centimeter • Existing finishes rated Class II or better may continue in corridors until replaced. Class II: no more than 0.22 watts per square centimeter • Interior floor finish in spaces that are not corridors or means of egress may be Class I, Class II, or meet Federal Flammability Standard FF 1 70 “Pill Test”. 3.3 Fabrics and decorations not applied to a solid backing • Drapes, curtains, and loosely hanging furnishings and decorations shall be rated Class I when tested in accordance with NFPA 701(Standard Methods of Fire Tests for Flame Propagation of Textiles and Films). • Documentation, such as a tag, label, or original packaging, indicating that fabrics and other decorations are flame retardant, shall be readily available. 3.4 Upholstered furniture and mattresses in clinical spaces shall comply with NFPA 101, the Life Safety Code. Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 10/2019 Reviewed by F. Alvarez, RED+F, Design N. Ejaz, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Safety Officer J. Goldberg, Environmental Health and Safety F. Mineo, NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI), EOC Compliance and Emergency Mgmt NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital LI EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 3 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) October 2019 Throughout Edited throughout for clarity 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Eliminate reference to NYC Building Code Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital March 2018 1.0 Updates application 5.0 Adds requirement for documentation of flame retardant fabrics and other decorations August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 2.0 6.0 Renumbers the sections January 2017 1.0 Section 5.0 moves to beginning of policy Review by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, NYU HJD, NYUHC, NYU Lutheran and NYU LFHC Environment of Care Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 133 Policy: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping Page 1 of 4 Revised: June 1, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To minimize or eliminate hazards associated with piped medical gas. To comply with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 99 2012 Edition, and American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE) requirements. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Selection 2.1 Piping for medical air, nitrous oxide, and oxygen shall comply with NFPA 99 (2012). For excerpts, See Appendices A and B. 2.2 Outlets shall comply with the following specifications. Location Type Vendor Superblock Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) BeaconMedaes (through Hill Rom) NYULOH Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) Praxair Healthcare Services NYULH B Latchkey style quick connect Chemetron NYULH LI Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) Chemetron Offsites: Superblock Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) Praxair Healthcare Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (FHC) Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) Medigas NYULH LI Diameter Index Safety System (DISS) Medigas Policy No. 133 Policy: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping Page 2 of 4 ___________________________________________________________________________________ Revised: June 1, 2021 3.0 Authorization to work 3.1 Prior to any installation, testing, or maintenance of, or work on, medical gas outlets or piping, personnel shall obtain authorization from Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering) or Real Estate, as applicable. 3.2 Facilities or Real Estate shall locate the nearest isolation valve, and determine shutdown requirements. 4.0 Installation Piping for medical air, nitrous oxide, and oxygen shall: 4.1 Comply with NFPA 99 (2012). 4.2 Be installed only by certified personnel meeting ASSE 6010 requirements. • During installation, gas outlets shall be capped with the manufacturer’s cap only. Substitute products, such as duct tape or masking tape are prohibited. 4.3 Have brazed fittings, installed in accordance with NFPA 99 (2012). • During brazing, joints shall be continuously purged with oil free, dry nitrogen to prevent the formation of copper oxide on the inside surfaces of the joint. 5.0 Testing 5.1 Personnel (i.e., staff or a vendor) with ASSE 6010 certification shall conduct testing, in accordance with ASSE 6010. When a vendor conducts the testing, the Project Manager (PM) and/or a representative of Respiratory Therapy, Facilities, Real Estate, or an authority having jurisdiction, as applicable shall witness the testing. The PM shall maintain documentation of findings in the project file. At NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI), the PM shall provide the Chief Engineer with records of results, and the Chief Engineer shall maintain those records. • Certified personnel shall conduct an Initial Pressure Test when all rough assemblies are completed. The test shall be conducted at 1.5 times the working pressure but not less than 150 pounds per square inch (psi). It shall include a check for leaks, with retest if leaks are identified. For vacuum systems, it shall be conducted at 60 psi with soapy water or equivalent. Policy No. 133 Policy: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping Page 3 of 4 ___________________________________________________________________________________ Revised: June 1, 2021 • Certified personnel shall conduct a Standing Pressure Test for 24 hours at above normal working pressure. The test shall include a check for leaks, with retest if leaks are identified. For vacuum systems, it shall be conducted at no less than 12 inches of mercury (Hg). • Following pressure testing, certified personnel shall purge lines with oil free, dry nitrogen in accordance with NFPA 99 (2012) to ensure that no debris remains in the piping. • A certified vendor shall conduct purity testing (of all lines affected) with oil free, nitrogen gas, and submit the results to Facilities or Real Estate for review. • The certified vendor shall conduct a final Tie In Test at normal system pressure. 6.0 Labeling 6.1 All piping shall be labeled in accordance with NFPA 99 (2012). See summary information in Appendices A and B. 6.2 Adapters (“Christmas trees”) utilized for connection of patient medical supply tubing (e.g. Nasal cannula, non rebreather, ambu bag, etc.) to Oxygen and Medical Air flow meters must be clear in color. 7.0 Preventive maintenance Facilities or Real Estate, as applicable, shall coordinate preventive maintenance of medical gas systems. 7.1 Maintenance shall include inspection and testing of the entire medical gas distribution systems at least annually. 7.2 The testing shall be completed by certified personnel meeting the requirements of ASSE 6030. 7.3 Maintenance and repairs shall be conducted by certified personnel meeting the requirements of ASSE 6030 and/or 6040. Appendix A Selected Standards from NFPA 99 (2012), Chapter 5: Gas and Vacuum Systems Appendix B Standard Designation Colors and Operating Pressures for Gas and Vacuum Systems Issue date 06/2021 Policy No. 133 Policy: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping Page 4 of 4 ___________________________________________________________________________________ Revised: June 1, 2021 Replaces 03/2021 Reviewed by D. Bensimon, Facilities Operations J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management M. Ciferri, NYULH B Facilities Management E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety D. Rubbo, NYULOH Facilities Engineering NYU Langone Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes June 2021 2.2 Adds Types/Vendors for outlets at NYULOH, NYULH LI and Offsites 6.2 Adds requirement for clear adapter connections to patient medical supply tubing March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island December 2019 Policy Name Shortens name Throughout Reorganizes policy into sections 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 5.0 Adds the fact that certified staff do testing Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital February 2018 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 2.0 Adds NYULH B Facilities Management 3.0 Adds requirement for capping gas outlet Review by Adds review by NYULH B Safety Officer, and NYULH B, LOH and Family Health Centers EOC Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 133, Appendix A Excerpts from NFPA 99 (2012), Chapter 5: Gas and Vacuum Systems 5.1.10.1 Piping Materials for Field Installed Positive Pressure Medical Gas Systems. 5.1.10.1.1 Tubes, valves, fittings, station outlets, and other piping components in medical gas systems shall have been cleaned for oxygen service by the manufacturer prior to installation in accordance with CGA G 4.1, Cleaning Equipment for Oxygen Service, except that fittings shall be permitted to be cleaned by a supplier or agency other than the manufacturer. 5.1.10.1.2 Each length of tube shall be delivered plugged or capped by the manufacturer and kept sealed until prepared for installation. 5.1.10.1.3 Fittings, valves, and other components shall be delivered sealed, labeled, and kept sealed until prepared for installation. 5.1.10.1.4 Tubes shall be hard drawn seamless copper ASTM B 819, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Medical Gas Systems, medical gas tube, Type L, except that where operating pressures are above a gauge pressure of 1275 kPa (185 psi) Type K shall be used for sizes larger than DN80 (NPS 3) (3⅛ in. O.D.). 5.1.10.1.5 ASTM B 819, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Medical Gas Systems, medical gas tube shall be identified by the manufacturer’s markings “OXY,” “MED,” “OXY/MED,” “OXY/ACR,” or “ACR/MED” in blue (Type L) or green (Type K). 5.1.10.1.6 The installer shall furnish documentation certifying that all installed piping materials comply with the requirements of 5.1.10.1.1. 5.1.10.2 Piping Materials for Field Installed Medical Surgical Vacuum and WAGD Systems 5.1.10.2.1 Piping for vacuum systems shall be constructed of any of the following: (1) Hard drawn seamless copper tube: a) ASTM B 88, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube, copper tube (Types K, L, or M) b) ASTM B 280, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tubing for Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Field Service, copper ACR tube c) ASTM B 819, Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Tube for Medical Gas Systems, copper medical gas tubing (Type K or Type L) (2) Stainless steel tube 5.1.11.1 Pipe Labeling 5.1.11.1.1 Piping shall be labeled by stenciling or adhesive markers that identify the patient medical gas, the support gas, or vacuum system, and include: (1) The name of the gas/vacuum system or the chemical symbol per Table 5.1.11 (2) The gas or vacuum system color code per Table 5.1.11 (3) Where positive pressure gas piping systems operate at pressures other than the standard gauge pressure in Table 5.1.11, the pipe labeling shall include the operating pressure in addition to the name of the gas. 5.1.11.1.2 Pipe labels shall be located as follows: (1) At intervals of not more than 6.1 m (20 ft) (2) At least once in or above every room (3) On both sides of walls or partitions penetrated by the piping (4) At least once in every story height traversed by risers Safety Policy 133, Appendix B Standard Designation Colors and Operating Pressures for Gas and Vacuum Systems Gas Service Abbreviated Name Colors (Background/Text) Standard Gauge Pressure Medical air Med Air Yellow/black 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Carbon dioxide CO2 Gray/black or gray/white 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Helium He Brown/white 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Nitrogen N2 Black/white 1,100 1,275 kPa (160 185 psi) Nitrous oxide N2O Blue/white 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Oxygen O2 Green/white or white/green 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Oxygen/carbon dioxide mixture O2/CO2 n% (n is % of CO2) Green/white 345 380 kPa (50 55 psi) Medical surgical vacuum Med Vac White/black 380mm to 760 mm (15in. to 30 in. HgV) Waste anesthetic gas disposal WAGD Violet/white Varies with system type Other mixtures Gas A%/ Gas B% Colors as above Major gas for background/ minor gas for text None Nonmedical air (Category 3 gas powered device) Yellow and white diagonal stripe/black None Nonmedical and Category 3 vacuum White and black diagonal stripe /black boxed None Laboratory air Yellow and white checkerboard/black None Laboratory vacuum White and black checkerboard /black boxed None Instrument air Red/white 1,100 1,275 kPa (160 185 psi) Source: NFPA 99, 2012 Edition


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 1 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect personnel who enter confined spaces and permit required confined spaces (PRCSs) To comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards on confined space entry (General Industry: 29 CFR 1910.146 and Construction: 29 CFR 1926 Subpart AA) POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH The primary departments and divisions impacted by the program are: − Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, and Engineering) − Real Estate − RED+F Design and Construction − Environmental Services − Contractors and subcontractors 2.0 Definitions Attendant refers to an individual stationed outside a PRCS who assesses the status of authorized entrants and performs the duties specified in the applicable OSHA PRCS standard. Authorized entrant refers to an individual who is authorized to enter a PRCS. Competent person means one who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 2 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 dangerous to personnel, and who has the authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. Confined space means a space that: − Is large enough and so configured that a person can bodily enter and perform assigned work; and − Has limited or restricted means for entry or exit (e.g., tanks, vessels, boilers, pits, vaults, manholes, sewers, drains, water mains, ceiling plenums, ductwork); and − Is not designed for continuous occupancy. Controlling contractor refers to the employer that has overall responsibility for construction at the worksite (e.g., prime contractor, general contractor, or construction manager). Entry supervisor refers to the person who is responsible for determining if acceptable entry conditions are present at a PRCS where entry is planned, for authorizing entry, overseeing entry operations, and for terminating entry as required by the applicable OSHA PRCS standard. On construction projects, the entry supervisor must meet OSHA’s definition of a qualified person (see below). Permit refers to NYULH’s PRCS permit (see Appendix A) completed in accordance with Appendix B, or another permit authorized by Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). Permit required confined space (PRCS) has one or more of the following characteristics: − Contains or may contain a hazardous atmosphere − Contains a material that may engulf an entrant − Has an internal configuration that can trap or asphyxiate an entrant − Has any other serious health or safety hazard Program means the employer’s overall program for controlling, and where appropriate, protecting employees from, PRCS hazards, and for managing employee entry into PRCSs. Qualified person means one who, by possession of a recognized degree, certificate or professional standing, or by extensive knowledge, training and experience, has successfully demonstrated the ability to solve or resolve problems relating to the subject matter, the work, or the project. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 3 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for:  Developing the PRCS Entry Program (the Program) and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Providing confined space awareness training to relevant groups, including Facilities, Real Estate, RED+F Design and Construction, and Environmental Services.  Functioning as a consultant on an as needed basis for confined space and PRCS entry issues.  Maintaining a list of qualified, approved consultants who can provide confined space training and assist staff with oversight of PRCS work including atmospheric testing.  Evaluating the effectiveness of the Program and recommending changes as needed. 3.2 Facilities and Real Estate are responsible for:  Managing the Program and the permitting process in facilities they maintain.  Ensuring that all PRCSs are identified and included in the Program. 3.3 The Vice Presidents and Directors of Facilities, Real Estate and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for compliance within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Implementing the Program within their departments and divisions.  Ensuring all requirements of this policy are followed.  Ensuring all PRCS work is identified and included in the Program.  Ensuring all personnel who participate in confined space and PRCS work receive the training outlined in Sections 7 and 8 of this policy prior to assignment.  Ensuring that employees have the required safety equipment.  Ensuring contractors comply with this policy. 3.4 Managers and forepersons are responsible for:  Implementing and maintaining the Program within their work groups. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 4 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021  Notifying EH&S (or the Sr. Director of Engineering at NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI)) of PRCS work one (1) week in advance for planned work and immediately for emergencies.  Ensuring all personnel who participate in confined space and PRCS work have the training outlined in Sections 7 and 8 of this policy prior to assignment.  Submitting a Job Safety Analysis (JSA) (a step by step plan for completing PRCS work, which lists the hazards associated with the work and the plan for addressing them) to EH&S, or the Sr. Director of NYULH LI Engineering, or an authorized consultant, as applicable, for review. The JSA shall also address emergency rescue procedures (e.g. non entry rescue, qualified rescue vendor).  Ensuring their employees have the required safety equipment.  Ensuring shutdown and lockout/tagout of necessary utilities.  Ensuring contractors comply with this policy (e.g., submit a written PRCS program, training records, and JSA for review, employ necessary safety equipment). 3.5 Project managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, and maintenance) and Tenant Coordinators (TCs) are responsible for:  Implementing and maintaining the Program at their facility or on their project.  Ensuring employees and contractors comply with this policy by: Incorporating the requirements of the policy into the specifications for the work. Informing contractors about the requirements of this policy during the bidding process.  Notifying EH&S (or the Sr. Director of Engineering at NYULH LI) of PRCS work one (1) week in advance. Submitting contractor’s training documents, written PRCS program, and JSA to EH&S, or the Sr. Director of NYULH LI Engineering, or an authorized consultant, as applicable, for review. Coordinate the shutdown and lockout/tagout of necessary utilities. During the design or redesign phase, seeking feasible solutions to eliminate PRCS hazards and entry (e.g., by providing unrestricted access and egress, designing test holes). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 5 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 3.6 Controlling contractors and subcontractors are responsible for:  Complying with all provisions of the OSHA Confined Spaces in Construction standard and requirements of this policy.  Informing managers, PMs and TCs about the existence, creation, and modification of PRCSs during construction or renovation at least one (1) week in advance.  Preventing unauthorized entry to PRCSs by posting warning signs consistent with Section 4.0 of this Policy and securing PRCS entry by locked cover, hatch, or other effective means.  Obtaining copies of PRCS training documents for the entry supervisor, attendant, and authorized entrants and submitting them to the PM or TC. Ensuring that the entry supervisor meets OSHA’s definition of a qualified person.  Obtaining, reviewing and submitting the contractor’s written PRCS program and JSA to the PM or TC. The JSA shall also address emergency rescue procedures (e.g. non entry rescue, qualified rescue vendor). 3.7 Workers who participate in confined space and PRCS work are responsible for:  Attending the training outlined in Section 8 of this policy prior to assignment.  Requesting a Permit prior to entering any PRCS.  Following the requirements of the Permit.  Immediately notifying their supervisors of any pertinent problems. 4.0 PRCS identification and signage 4.1 Facilities and Real Estate identify all PRCSs in their facilities, and install signs on or stencils each space reading DANGER PERMIT REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE DO NOT ENTER. A list of PRCSs in owned spaces is included as Appendix C. 5.0 PRCS entry procedures 5.1 The foreman, manager, PM or TC shall contact EH&S, or the Sr. Director of Engineering at NYULH LI, or an authorized consultant one (1) week prior to scheduling work in a PRCS and provide a brief scope of work to be performed. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 6 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 For emergency work, they shall contact EH&S, the Sr. Director of NYULH LI Engineering or designee, or the consultant immediately. 5.2 Prior to work in a PRCS, the entry supervisor shall evaluate all potential hazards present in, and introduced into, the space, and implement appropriate controls. 5.3 Prior to work in a PRCS, personnel shall obtain a Permit (see Appendix A) from Facilities or Real Estate and complete it in accordance with Appendix B.  For in house work, the employee’s manager or foreperson shall function as the entry supervisor. The entry supervisor shall: Prepare the work area for PRCS entry. Complete entry permit. Sign and authorize the work.  For work by contractors, the manager, PM or TC shall initiate the Permit. The PM shall coordinate the work with the Facilities manager, property owner, or TC. The contractor entering the PRCS shall designate the entry supervisor. The entry supervisor shall:  Complete and sign the Permit in the presence of the manager or controlling contractor’s competent person following the steps listed above (under in house work).  Ensure the roles and duties of the entry team are made clear prior to the entry.  Report to the controlling contractor’s competent person during the entry and following the conclusion of the entry. 5.4 A completed and authorized Permit shall be valid until:  The end of the workers' shift or the work is completed, whichever comes first; or  There is an emergency involving or affecting the work area. 5.5 The signed Permit shall be posted in the work area until the Permit is no longer valid or the work is completed. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 7 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 5.6 During the entry, the entry supervisor shall stay in radio contact with the attendant. The attendant shall call the entry supervisor when the work is complete or in case of an emergency.  In the case of an emergency, the entry supervisor shall: Contact 911 and indicate that PRCS rescue is required Contact Telecommunications at 33 911 or 212 263 911 5.7 The entry supervisor, and foreman or controlling contractor’s competent person shall inspect the work area periodically during the work to ensure that the conditions of the Permit are maintained. 5.8 The manager or controlling contractor’s competent person shall debrief the employees or contractor who completed the work regarding any challenges encountered during the work, and communicate identified issues to EH&S or the Sr. Director of NYULH LI Engineering, as applicable. 5.9 When the work is completed and the authorized entrants have left the PRCS, all systems shall be returned to their original condition. The Facilities manager or TC shall check the work area and authorize systems to be put back into service. 5.10 The NYULH Permit shall be closed out or cancelled by the entry supervisor by filling out Section 10 of the Permit. 5.11 The foreman or controlling contractor’s competent person shall return the Permit to the Facilities office or the TC.  For in house work, the foreman returns the Permit to the Facilities office.  For work done by contractors, the controlling contractor’s competent person returns the Permit to Facilities or the TC. 5.12 Facilities managers or Real Estate shall maintain Permits for completed work for at least one year. 6.0 Construction notifications 6.1 Prior to construction activities, the PM shall notify EH&S or the NYULH LI Sr. Director of Engineering, as applicable, of any potential confined space or PRCS work within their site. 6.2 During construction activities, the controlling contractor’s competent person shall notify the PM of the creation or modification of any PRCS (e.g., temporary Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 8 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 crawlspaces) and the PM shall notify EH&S or the NYULH LI Sr. Director of Engineering, as applicable. 7.0 Confined space awareness training 7.1 Managers and the controlling contractor’s competent person shall ensure that all personnel who participate in confined space work have confined space awareness training.  Training for employees shall be conducted by Environmental Health and Safety or provided through completion of NYULH’s eLearning module. 8.0 PRCS Training 8.1 Managers and the controlling contractor’s competent person shall ensure that all personnel who participate in PRCS work have 8 hour confined space Entrant/Attendant/Supervisor training prior to assignment. The entry supervisor, attendant and authorized entrants shall be familiar with the:  Requirements of this policy  Proper preparation of a PRCS for entry  Potential hazards encountered in a PRCS  Use of proper safety equipment and PPE  The duties and responsibilities of each member of the PRCS entry team  Emergency procedures (e.g., incident and injury protocols) 8.2 Training shall be conducted:  Before a worker is first assigned to PRCS entry  Before a worker is assigned new PRCS tasks  Whenever there is a change in procedures or new hazards are introduced  Whenever there are deviations from the requirements of the policy, or there are inadequacies in a worker's knowledge or use of these procedures 8.3 Each department/division shall maintain training records for its employees.  Records shall include the dates of training, subjects covered, names of employees trained, and name and signature of the trainer  Records shall be maintained for 1 year past the last day of employment  Copies of records shall be provided to EH&S upon request Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 9 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 9.0 Program evaluation EH&S shall conduct an annual evaluation of the Program as part of the annual evaluation of NYULH’s Environmental Safety Management Plan. Appendix A NYULH Confined Space Entry Permit Appendix B Instructions for Preparing a PRCS for Entry and Completing the Permit Appendix C List of Permit Required Confined Spaces in Facilities Owned by NYU Langone Issue date 03/2021 Replaces 12/2019 Reviewed by E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety A. John, Environmental Services B. Kenny, NYULH LI, Engineering D. Resnick, Design and Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Engineering NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island November 2019 Throughout Change “confined space” to “PRCS” for clarity. Adds responsibilities of NYUWH Sr. Director of Engineering. 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 1.0 and 3.1 Adds Environmental Services 5.3 Reorganized, for clarity 7.0 Adds awareness training Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital November 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 3.4 and 3.5 Updates responsibilities Appendix C Updates PRCS locations at NYULH B, Kimmel, and Science February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 138 Policy: Confined Space Entry Program Page 10 of 10 Revised: March 25, 2021 2.0 Updates definitions Adds definitions for competent person and controlling contractor 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 Updates responsibilities for forepersons, PMs, and controlling contractors 4.0 and 5.0 Adds Lutheran Updates confined space entry procedures 7.0 Updates training requirements Review by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, and HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Appendix A C Updates appendices Safety Policy 138, Appendix A NYULH Confined Space Entry Permit Revised: November 21, 2019 SECTION 1: Entry Permit (valid for 8 hours only) Date: Start time: AM/PM Expiration time: AM/PM Building: Location: Job supervisor: Equipment to be worked on: Reason for Entry: Location of nearest fire alarm pull station: Nearest telephone: Rescue procedures: Attempt non entry rescue. Call 911 and alert dispatcher of a confined space emergency. Then call NYULH telecommunications at 212 263 3911 (33911). SECTION 2: Permit Space Hazards SECTION 3: Hazard Elimination _______Oxygen Deficient/Enriched _______Contact Irritant ______Lockout/Tagout _______Flammable Gases/Vapors/Liquids _______Engulfment ______Purge/Clean _______Combustible Dust _______Noise ______Blank _______Toxic Gases/Vapors (Specify) _______Hot Work ______Ventilation _______Electrical/Mechanical Hazard _______Heat/Cold Stress ______Barriers _______Chemical Hazard Other:______________ Other:__________________________ SECTION 4: Personal Protective Equipment SECTION 5: Safety Equipment ______Chemical Splash Goggles ______Impervious Suit ______Full Body Harness _____Safety Line ______Impervious Boots ______Hard hat ______Escape Bottle ______GFCI ______Hearing Protection ______Respiratory Protection ______Tripod/ ______Radios ______Coveralls ______Gloves ______Low Voltage Tools ______Fire Exting. Other:______________ Other:______________ ______Explosion Proof Equipment Other:______________ Other:______________ ______Personal Monitor for Entrant SECTION 6: Atmospheric Monitoring (to be done prior to entry and continuously with recording every 30 mins) Model:______________________ Serial #:______________________ Monitor (Print):_______________ Field Check: ____Pass ____Fail Calibration Due: ______________ Monitor (Sign):________________ Parameter Acceptable Conditions Initial Results Time Results Time Results Time Results Time Oxygen >19. and <23. LEL < LEL H2S Contact EH&S CO Contact EH&S VOCs Contact EH&S Other: Other: SECTION 7: Communication Procedures Between Entrant(s) and Attendant ______Voice/Visual ______Radio Other:_____________________________________ SECTION 8: Personnel (PRINT NAME) (SIGN NAME) Entry Supervisor Attendant Entrant Entrant SECTION 9: Entry Authorization All training requirements have been met  (Permit cannot be authorized if this box is unchecked) I have reviewed the work authorized by this permit and the information contained here in. Written instructions and safety procedures have been received and are understood. Entry cannot be authorized if any questions have been answered “No.” This permit is not valid unless all appropriate items are completed. Entry Supervisor’s signature: Date: Time: Manager’s signature: Date: Time: SECTION 10: Entry Cancellation Reason for Cancellation: ______Work Complete ______Emergency Other:___________________ Entry Supervisor’s signature: Date: Time: Manager’s signature: Date: Time: Safety Policy 138, Appendix B Instructions for Preparing a PRCS for Entry And Completing the Permit Revised: November 21, 2019 SECTION 1 When it is determined that a permit required confined space (PRCS) must be entered to perform work, the entry supervisor will complete Section 1 of the Permit. The REASON FOR ENTRY section should state the work to be completed in the PRCS (e.g., welding). SECTION 2 Permit Space Hazards The entry supervisor will examine the PRCS for potential hazards and will complete Section 2 of the Permit. EH&S, or the NYULH LI Sr. Director of Engineering, or an authorized consultant shall be contacted for assistance in identifying potential hazards. SECTION 3 Hazard Elimination The entry supervisor, along with other applicable personnel, shall eliminate the feasible hazards and complete Section 3 of the Permit. Examples of hazard elimination include: Lockout/Tagout OSHA compliant lockout/tagout procedures should be followed. If there is no equipment requiring lockout/tagout N/A should be checked. Equipment purging and cleaning The PRCS should be purged of its contents and cleaned if necessary to protect workers who will enter it. If the PRCS contained chemicals, or chemicals are used to clean it, EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services, as applicable, should be contacted for disposal of these chemicals, cleaning solution, and any rinse water that may contain chemical contaminants. If no cleaning is necessary, N/A should be checked. If the equipment cannot be cleaned, EH&S or the NYULH LI Sr. Director of Engineering, as applicable, should be contacted for any special procedures that may be necessary. All lines disconnected, blanked or plugged All pipelines that are connected to a PRCS must be disconnected, blanked or plugged so that no contaminants will enter the PRCS during entry. Where the pipeline cannot be completely isolated (e.g., sewers), it shall be isolated to the extent possible to reduce contaminants and sudden flooding. Safety Policy 138, Appendix B Instructions for Preparing a PRCS for Entry And Completing the Permit Revised: November 21, 2019 Ventilation Continuous forced air ventilation is necessary where the atmosphere in a PRCS does not meet acceptable levels for oxygen and air contaminants. All ventilation equipment must be explosion proof and draw in fresh air at standard temperature and pressure. Where forced air ventilation does not maintain an acceptable atmosphere, the use of air purifying or supplied air respirators is necessary, which requires involvement of EH&S or an authorized consultant. Barriers A barrier shall be installed to prevent anyone from falling into the PRCS and to keep pedestrians away from it. SECTION 4 and 5 Personal Protective and Safety Equipment Based on an assessment of the hazards in the PRCS, workers must be supplied with the necessary personal protective and safety equipment. Lighting should be provided to illuminate the work area inside the PRCS. All lighting must be explosion proof. The attendant and entrant(s) should be provided with radios to communicate during the operation. Other Equipment that may be necessary The entry supervisor should check on the Permit any other equipment that the workers may need to enter the PRCS. This may include, but is not limited to, the equipment listed in Sections 4 and 5 of the Permit SECTION 6 Atmospheric Monitoring Personnel shall use a recently calibrated continuous air monitor to do a pre entry atmospheric check in the PRCS for oxygen deficiency, lower explosive limit (L.E.L.), carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). The percent oxygen should be 19.5 23.. The L.E.L. should be less than . For CO, H2S, and other air contaminants, contact EH&S or the authorized consultant to determine the levels not to be exceeded. Additional tests for toxicity shall be done for chemical present within, or introduced into the PRCS. The person conducting the test will sign next to the results for the pre entry Safety Policy 138, Appendix B Instructions for Preparing a PRCS for Entry And Completing the Permit Revised: November 21, 2019 atmospheric checks when the levels are within the prescribed limits. Atmospheric monitoring shall be conducted continuously during entry and recorded every 30 minutes during the entry. If any of these test results are not in the prescribed range, forced fresh air ventilation into the PRCS shall be used until the required levels are met. SECTION 7 Communication Procedures The entry supervisor should determine the most effective way for the authorized entrant(s) and the attendant to stay in contact. This may include, but is not limited to, voice or visual communication or two way radio communication. Cell phones shall not be used for communication within a PRCS. SECTION 8 Personnel The entry supervisor will list the authorized entrant(s) that will enter the PRCS. The entry supervisor will also write the name of the attendant that will be monitoring the entrants inside the PRCS, informing the entrants of any change in the continuous air monitor, and using the radio for keeping the entry supervisor informed or for calling for rescue. The entry supervisor should review the Permit and procedures to be used in the PRCS with the entrant(s) and attendant. The entry supervisor will sign the permit and contact the manager for authorization to enter the PRCS. The manager will sign and enter the date and time on the Permit. During the work, the entry supervisor will ensure the Permit is readily available at the PRCS. After the work is done or the Permit is no longer valid, it is returned to the Facilities office or TC. EMERGENCY PROCEDURES In the event of a PRCS emergency, the attendant shall contact the entry supervisor and request assistance. The attendant shall attempt non entry rescue utilizing the retrieval system. The attendant shall not try to enter a PRCS to assist a downed worker. If other workers are in the area of the PRCS, their assistance should be requested. If the entrant is not able to leave the PRCS and a qualified rescue vendor is not present to perform an entry rescue, the entry supervisor shall call 911 and inform the operator that a confined space rescue is required. The entry supervisor shall then contact NYULH Telecommunications (212.263.911). Responding NYULH employees should assist in non entry rescue, but should not attempt to enter the PRCS. Safety Policy 138, Appendix B Instructions for Preparing a PRCS for Entry And Completing the Permit Revised: November 21, 2019 POST PRCS ENTRY PROCEDURES After the PRCS entry work is completed, the space should be returned to its original condition in accordance with Facilities’ or the building manager’s procedures. All lines should be reconnected, unblanked, or unplugged. The Facilities’ manager, TC or controlling contractor’s competent person should check and authorize the PRCS to be put back into service. All personal protective and safety equipment that was used in the PRCS entry should be cleaned and returned to storage for future use. If disposable personal protective equipment was used and contaminated with chemicals, it should be placed in a container and given to EH&S for proper disposal (as per Safety Policy No. 108a, Hazardous Waste from Contractors (Construction and Building Maintenance). If necessary, showers should be provided for workers after the PRCS entry operation is completed. Safety Policy 138, Appendix C List of Permit required Confined Spaces in Facilities Owned by NYULH Revised: November 21, 2019 Main Campus and Immediate Vicinity Building Type of Space Location 222 E. 41 St. Fuel oil tanks 001 and 003 B 040 660 First Ave. Domestic water tank Roof Fuel oil tank Cellar Crawl Space 3rd floor Radiology Computer Storage Room (above Cytology Lab) 673 First Ave. (CMC and OSC) Fuel oil tank FOT 1 Parking garage Ambulatory Care Center (ACC) Fuel oil tank ACC 01 C 21 Clinical Cancer Center Domestic water tank Roof Fuel oil tank LL 213 Coles Acid neutralizing tanks G100 Energy Boiler 1 Entrance 4th floor Fan 4th floor North mud drum (two hatches) 4th floor North steam drum (two hatches) 4M Wind box 4th floor Boiler 2 Entrance 4th floor Fan 4th floor South mud drum (two hatches) 4th floor South steam drum (two hatches) 4M Wind box 4th floor Sump pits (3) Ground Exhaust system Access hatch for exhaust breach, Boiler 1 4th floor Access hatch for exhaust breach, Boiler 2 4th floor Exhaust duct for gas turbine/boilers 4M Gas turbine exhaust (two hatches) 4th floor HRSG exhaust Stack 1 4th floor HRSG exhaust Stack 2 4th floor Roof exhaust access hatch 5/Roof Fuel oil tank Ground Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) Ammonia injection chamber 4th floor Center (two hatches) 4th floor CO catalyst chamber 4th floor Mud drum east (two hatches) 4th floor Mud drum west (two hatches) 4th floor Steam drum 4M Miscellaneous Ammonia tank 4th floor by Stair B Blow down tank 4th floor Safety Policy 138, Appendix C List of Permit required Confined Spaces in Facilities Owned by NYULH Revised: November 21, 2019 Condensate polisher, east 4th floor Condensate polisher, west 4th floor Condensate receiver 4th floor De aerator 4M Hatch on exhaust breach for gas turbine 4M Water storage feed tank 4M Greenberg Hall (GBH) Sump pits > 4 feet deep (2) SC2 Mechanical Room Kimmel Pavilion CoGen flue 6 hatches on the 6th floor 1 hatch on 19th floor Domestic water tank 20th floor Ejector pits (4) Ground floor, Room 706B and 850D Elevator pits Ground floor Flood barrier catch basins (5) Outside, 1st Ave. side of bldg. AST fuel oil tank (3 hatches) Ground floor, Room 706 Storm Water Retention Tank Outside, 1st Ave. side of building. Sump pits > 4 feet deep C 044 and C 070 Medical Science Building (MSB) Acid neutralizing tanks MS 191 Domestic water tanks (2) 10th floor Sump pits > 4 feet deep C 06, C 031A, and C 068 Science Building Acid neutralization tank C 12 Crawl Space G 06 inside Conference Room Closet Domestic water tanks (2) Roof Sump pits > 4 feet deep C 03 and C 13 Elevator pits Ground floor Flood barrier catch basin (1) 30th Street Fuel tank (2 hatches) C 04 Gasket space between Science and MSB 220 (fire pump MER) Storm water retention tank C 05 Schwartz Lecture Hall Sump pits > 4 feet deep Cellar MER next to elevator machine room Skirball Acid neutralizing tanks (2) 1st floor north and south (outside by flag pole Domestic water tanks (2) 25th floor Fuel oil tanks (2) HCC 01 SK 01 Skirball Ground Animal Facility Oil Tank Room, west Oil Tank Room, east Reverse osmosis tank 6th floor MER Sump pits > 4 feet deep (10) Ground floor Steam Room (3) Ground floor Outside Gas P.O.E. Room (2) Ground floor Sump Pump Room in AF (3) Ground floor MER (2) Smilow Acid neutralizing tank Sump Room C 27 (in morgue) Safety Policy 138, Appendix C List of Permit required Confined Spaces in Facilities Owned by NYULH Revised: November 21, 2019 Fuel oil tanks SM01D: 1st floor 105A SM01M: Mezzanine MZ 08 Sumps pits > 4feet deep (3) C 39 and C 17 (in morgue) Tisch Domestic water tank (2) 20th floor Utility shaft Ground floor, adjacent service elevators Sump pits > 4 feet deep C 21A, C 56, and C 160 Translational Research Building Fuel oil tank TRB 01 Basement MER NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Type of Space Location Domestic water tanks C1, C 119 (cold water) C1, C 119 (hot water) Ejector pits > 4 feet deep SC3, C 304 (men’s locker room) SC3, C 316, (maintenance shop) Fuel oil tank SC3, by passenger elevators Storm pit SC3, C 304 (men’s locker room) SC3, C 316, (maintenance shop) NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Type of Space Location Boilers (3) Room 1181 Domestic water tank 7th floor roof Elevator pits 1st floor Sump pits > 4 feet deep 1st floor Switch Gear Room (inside Electrical Room) 1st floor LB 1523 Air handler MER 1st floor Stair H NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Main Campus Type of Space Location Boilers (3) Laundry Building Deaerator tank (2) Laundry Building Elevator pits Lower Level Sump pits > 4 feet deep MER’s 2, 4, 10, 11 & 35 Fuel Oil Tanks Tank #’s 5816, 0070, 5817 & 0009 Boiler Stack Laundry Building NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Research Building Type of Space Location Sump Pit Underground Garage Safety Policy 138, Appendix C List of Permit required Confined Spaces in Facilities Owned by NYULH Revised: November 21, 2019 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island 120 Mineola Blvd Type of Space Location Pit for chiller Back driveway Chillers Rooftop Sterling Forest (formerly NIEM) Type of Space Location Fuel storage tanks (2) Outdoors, underground


Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 1 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect personnel and property from the hazards posed by hot work. To comply with all federal (e.g., Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 1910 Subpart Q and 1926 Subpart J), state, and local regulations, and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards related to hot work. POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, vendors and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Definitions Certifications, licenses and evidence of training the documents required by NYULH, and the authorities have jurisdiction (AHJs), in order to perform hot work or act as a fire watch. These requirements include: Hot worker NYC FDNY G 60 certificate of fitness. For structural welding, NYC DoB license Nassau County Nassau County Welding/Cutting certificate of fitness Suffolk County FDNY G 60 or Nassau County Welding/Cutting certificate of fitness, as well as any Town requirements Fire watch NYC FDNY F 60 certificate of fitness Nassau and Suffolk County FDNY F 60 certificate of fitness or NFPA Hot Work Safety Certificate, as well as any County or Town requirements Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 2 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Competent person means a person who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings, or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous to workers, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. Controlling contractor (Contractor) means a prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity, which has the overall responsibility for the construction of the project (e.g., its planning, quality, and completion). Hot work means work which produces flame, sparks, slag (such as cutting, welding, burning, grinding, brazing, soldering, or similar operations) or heat capable of initiating a fire or explosion. Hot work permit (permit) means a permit generated by NYULH’s online hot work permitting system or, where authorized by this policy (see exception in Responsibilities section 5.5), a comparable permit whose use has been approved by Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). 3.0 Alternatives to hot work and risk reduction 3.1 Due to the hazards hot work poses, work shall be designed and planned to eliminate risk where feasible. Alternatives include: performing hot work offsite mechanical fastening or bolting screw, flanged or clamped pipe mechanical shears or pipe cutter cold apply roofing water jet 3.2 Where hot work cannot be completely eliminated, less hazardous methods shall be employed (for example, use of a reciprocating saw versus a torch) or the hot work shall be performed outdoors at grade or in a dedicated, controlled indoor area, where feasible. 4.0 Planning of high risk hot work 4.1 Hot work involving any of the following shall be planned with the campus Safety Officer, and EH&S: Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 3 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 on or over a roof performed at height involving a tank or pressure vessel on an active medical gas system in a shaft or confined space involves the use of propane (> 16.4 ounces), natural gas or liquid oxygen on coated or painted metal surfaces (e.g. lead, zinc, etc.) involving aluminum or stainless steel When planning high risk hot work, also see Section 6.0. 5.0 Responsibilities 5.1 EH&S is responsible for:  Assisting Facilities, Real Estate and RED+F Design and Construction in identifying alternatives to hot work and planning of high risk hot work.  Developing the Hot Work Program (the Program) and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Training relevant groups, including Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, on the requirements of the Program.  Providing employees with training on the use of fire extinguishers.  Functioning as a consultant on an as needed basis for hot work safety issues.  Managing a quality assurance (QA) program, involving inspections of representative sites where hot work has been permitted.  Evaluating the effectiveness of the Program and recommending changes as needed. 5.2 Vice Presidents (VPs) and Directors of Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, as applicable, are responsible for compliance within their divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Promoting alternatives to hot work and incorporating standardized means and methods into the NYULH Design Guidelines document.  Implementing the Program within their divisions.  Ensuring all requirements of the policy are followed. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 4 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Ensuring personnel who are covered by the Program are trained on its requirements.  Ensuring all hot work is identified and included in the Program.  Ensuring contractors comply with this policy. VPs and Directors of Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for managing the Program, the online permitting system, and the permitting process; and providing access to, and training on, the online system. VPs and Directors of Real Estate are also responsible for having their staff serve as a liaison for hot work as needed with landlords and building management at occupied leased sites. 5.3 Managers, Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, and maintenance) and Tenant Coordinators (TCs), are responsible for implementing the program on their projects. Their responsibilities include:  Incorporating alternatives to hot work during the design and planning process.  Planning high risk hot work (Sections 4.0 and 6.0) with the campus Safety Officer, and EH&S.  Ensuring employees and contractors comply with this policy Incorporating the requirements of the policy into the contract or specifications for the work. Discussing training requirements, required safety equipment, and work area preparation with employees and contractors.  Informing management of adjacent occupied areas of hot work to be done.  Requesting necessary shutdowns (e.g., ventilation, smoke/heat detection, medical gas and vacuum systems) from Facilities or building management in advance of hot work.  Arranging for fire watch where a fire detection system is impaired. PMs are also responsible for:  Approving hot work permits at unoccupied, leased sites.  Inspecting hot work during their site visits to verify that it is being conducted in accordance with permit requirements. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 5 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Facilities and Real Estate managers are also responsible for:  Ensuring staff and contractor personnel have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in section 2.0.  Obtaining a hot work permit from the NYULH online system daily prior to undertaking any hot work, uploading staff and contractor certifications, licenses and evidence of training, and uploading the completed Hot Work Inspection Checklist.  Oversight of retained contractor personnel 5.4 Facilities forepersons are responsible for hot work performed by “in house” staff or by contractors they are assigned to oversee. Their responsibilities include:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Verifying shutdowns requested by the Manager (e.g., ventilation, smoke detection, medical gas, and vacuum systems) prior to commencing work and notifying Facilities where an extension is needed or when work is complete.  Keeping the sprinkler system active during hot work, protecting the sprinkler head(s) near hot work against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier), and removing this protection once the hot work is complete and at the end of each work day. Where Facilities determines that adequately protecting a sprinkler head in close proximity to hot work is not feasible, the head shall be removed and the sprinkler line plugged and refilled prior to performing any hot work. The sprinkler head shall be replaced as soon as the hot work is complete.  Capping openings in supply and return ductwork with sheet metal and ensuring a smoke tight seal.  Sealing all floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings with smoke tight, fire resistant materials.  Ensuring flammables and movable combustibles within 35 feet of hot work, and in open areas below, are removed and that immovable combustibles and openings are fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets.  Ensuring the floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean prior to the start of work.  Providing a charged water hose and ensuring it is immediately available for use where specified. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 6 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Ensuring mechanics who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have completed hot work training, and NYULH’s Focus module: Emergency Management and Workplace Safety. Verifying mechanics and contractor personnel under their oversight who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in Section 2.0.  Utilizing the NYULH Hot Work Inspection Checklist (Appendix A) to inspect the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, each day prior to start of work to ensure proper protective measures are in place and signing the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). The completed checklist shall be provided to their manager for upload to NYULH online permitting system.  Assigning additional fire watch where needed in other areas at risk of fire  Ensuring fire watch: Has a charged cellphone or radio Knows the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and the NYULH procedure for reporting a fire:  Activate pull station;  Call 911;  Call NYULH Operator Manhattan 212.263.3911, Brooklyn 718.630.6450, Long Island 516.663.3911 Knows how to use a fire extinguisher (P A S S) Has at a minimum a charged and inspected 10 lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher immediately available Is present with no other assigned duties during hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work  Ensuring mechanics return compressed gas cylinders to their authorized storage area when not in use and at the end of each work day. 5.5 Controlling contractors are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy. Providing contractor personnel with an initial site orientation and site specific training.  Ensuring contractor personnel who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 7 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Section 2.0, as well as any applicable permits (e.g., for storage/use of compressed gas cylinders).  Obtaining a hot work permit from the NYULH online system daily, uploading contractor evidence of training, certifications or licenses, and uploading the completed Hot Work Inspection Checklist. Exception: In unoccupied buildings and new buildings under construction, controlling contractors may use their hot work permit program where permitted by building management, and approved in advance by EH&S.  Complying with all building management hot work requirements at leased sites in addition to this policy.  Verifying shutdowns requested by the PM (e.g., ventilation, smoke detection, medical gas and vacuum systems) prior to commencing work and notifying Facilities or building management where an extension is needed or when work is complete.  Keeping the sprinkler system active during hot work, protecting the sprinkler head(s) near hot work against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier), and removing this protection once the hot work is complete and at the end of each work day. Where Facilities or building management determine that adequately protecting a sprinkler head in close proximity to hot work is not feasible, the head shall be removed and the sprinkler line plugged and refilled prior to performing any hot work. The sprinkler head shall be replaced as soon as the hot work is complete.  Capping openings in supply and return ductwork with sheet metal and ensuring a smoke tight seal.  Sealing all floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings with smoke tight, fire resistant materials.  Ensuring flammables and movable combustibles within 35 feet of hot work and in open areas below are removed and that immovable combustibles and openings are fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets.  Ensuring the floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean prior to the start of work.  Providing a charged water hose and ensuring it is immediately available for use where specified  Assigning a competent person to inspect the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, utilizing the NYULH Hot Work Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 8 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Inspection Checklist contained in Appendix A, each day prior to start of work to ensure proper protective measures are in place and signing the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). The completed checklist shall be uploaded to NYULH online permitting system.  Assigning additional fire watch where needed in other areas at risk of fire  Ensuring fire watch: Has a charged cellphone or radio Knows the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and the NYULH procedure for reporting a fire:  Activate pull station;  Call 911;  Call NYULH Operator Manhattan 212.263.3911, Brooklyn 718.630.6450, Long Island 516.663.3911 Knows how to use a fire extinguisher (P A S S) Has at a minimum a charged and inspected 10 lb. ABC fire extinguisher immediately available Is present with no other assigned duties during hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work  Ensuring their contractors remove compressed gas cylinders from the building when not in use and at the end of each work day.  Obtaining approval from Facilities or building management, EH&S and the AHJ for any compressed gas cylinder storage. 5.6 Hot workers and fire watch are responsible for:  Only undertaking hot work or acting as a fire watch if they have, on their person, documentation of training as well as any AHJ required certifications or licenses.  Verifying that a hot work permit has been issued prior to conducting any work.  Following the requirements of the permit.  Ensuring the hot work permit is readily available (e.g., through an electronic copy or posted copy) in the work area.  Posting “Caution: Hot Work in Progress Stay Clear” signage at the approach to the hot work area. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 9 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Properly transporting compressed gas cylinders out of the building (contractors) or to their approved storage location (staff) when not in use and at the end of each work day.  Notifying their foreperson or the controlling contractor when post hot work inspections are complete.  Immediately notifying their foreperson or controlling contractor of any injuries, incidents, or other problems encountered during hot work. − Injured employees shall be taken to Occupational Health Services or the nearest Emergency Department for treatment and an incident report completed. − Injured contractor personnel shall be taken to the nearest Emergency Department for treatment with a controlling contractor incident report completed. 5.7 The hot worker is also responsible for:  Inspecting the date stamp on compressed gas cylinders to confirm certification within required time period (e.g. oxygen 5 years, acetylene 10 years)  Installing a UL listed flashback arrestor with check valve at both the torch and regulator for all single and dual gas torch operations  Properly assembling and inspecting hot work equipment for loose connections, damage and leaks (using soapy water) prior to use.  Securing all compressed gas cylinders upright in a cart or carrier/stand and keeping them back a safe distance from hot work  Ensuring that a fume extractor (“smoke eater”) or appropriate exhaust ventilation is in use at the point of the hot work  Turning off the electric welder and compressed gas cylinders when unattended, not in use and at the end of each work day  Wearing appropriate protective clothing and equipment 5.8 The fire watch is also responsible for:  Performing no other responsibilities when functioning as a fire watch. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 10 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Being present, with no other assigned duties, at all times in the work area during hot work operations and shift breaks, and continuously for 30 minutes after the hot work has concluded.  Where the hot work involves a compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) torch operation, conducting an additional inspection of the hot work area 60 minutes post completion.  Maintaining a written log of fire watch activities.  Obtaining training on how to use a fire extinguisher.  Having at minimum a charged, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher immediately available in areas of hot work and, where specified, a fire hose.  Having a communication device to keep in contact with their foreperson.  Knowing the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station, if any.  Immediately reporting all fire incidents, regardless of severity, as follows: − At the NYU Langone Manhattan and Langone Orthopedic Hospital (LOH) campuses, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (212.263.3911) and their foreperson − At the NYU Langone Brooklyn campus, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (718.630.6450) and their foreperson − At the NYU Langone Long Island campus, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (516.663.3911) and their foreperson. − At all other locations, activate the nearest pull station, call 911 and their foreperson. − On sites which lack an active fire alarm system, call 911, then contact their foreperson. 6.0 Controls for other hazards 6.1 At least one week in advance of planned hot work in a confined space or shaft, the PM or Manager shall contact EH&S for assistance with planning. For emergency work, they shall contact EH&S immediately. See the NYULH Confined Space Entry Program policy and NYULH Construction Safety Requirements policy (Section 11.32). Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 11 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 6.2 Hot work which involves the use of propane (>16.4 ounces), compressed natural gas or liquid oxygen shall be approved by, and planned with EH&S. 6.3 Prior to performing hot work on metals that produce toxic fumes (e.g., galvanized steel, stainless steel, aluminum), a job hazard analysis (JHA) is required to ensure compliance with OSHA 1926.353(c) and OSHA Subparts D and E. 6.4 Prior to performing hot work on a painted metal surface, the PM or Manager shall arrange for the paint to be tested for lead. Hot work shall not to be performed on lead containing surfaces. 6.5 The use of torch down or other hot work methods on roofs is prohibited unless specifically reviewed and approved by NYULH RED+F leadership and EH&S. Personnel shall not perform hot work on a roof constructed of combustible materials (e.g., wood, insulation board) or where exposed combustible materials are present. See NYULH Construction Safety Requirements policy (Sections 11.30 and 11.31). 6.6 Personnel shall only perform hot work on medical gas lines and in bulk oxygen storage areas after the required shutdowns and purging of piping and vessels are complete. This work shall be planned with Facilities, building management and EH&S. 6.7 Prior to performing any hot work on a tank or vessel that was pressurized or formerly contained a combustible, flammable or toxic solid, liquid or gas, a JHA shall be completed and certification of proper depressurization, purging and cleaning of the tank or vessel obtained. 6.8 Smoke or odor producing hot work shall only be performed where an operable smoke eater or proper exhaust ventilation is present at the point of the work. The exhaust ventilation discharge shall be reviewed with EH&S. 6.9 Personnel performing hot work at height shall do so from a stable work platform with guardrail protection (e.g., scaffold or aerial lift), not a ladder (see Safety Policy 163). 6.10 Personnel performing electric arc welding from a suspended scaffold shall comply with the requirement set forth in OSHA 1926.451(f)(17)(i) through (vi) (see Safety Policy 163). Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 12 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 7.0 Training 7.1 Managers, PMs, TCs, and contractors shall ensure that workers who perform hot work are trained on:  Requirements of this policy  Proper preparation of a work area  Use of safety equipment  Responsibilities of the fire watch  Emergency procedures (e.g. fire and employee injury protocols) 7.2 Training shall be conducted:  Before a worker is first assigned hot work tasks  Before a worker is assigned new hot work tasks  Whenever there is a change in procedures or new hazards are introduced  Whenever there are deviations from the requirements of the policy, or there are inadequacies noted in a worker's knowledge or use of these procedures 7.3 Upon request, EH&S shall provide training to NYULH employees. 7.4 Each division shall maintain training records for its employees.  Records shall include the dates of training, subjects covered, names of employees trained, and name and signature of the trainer.  Records shall be maintained for 1 year past the last day of employment.  Copies of records shall be provided to EH&S upon request. 8.0 Program evaluation 8.1 EH&S shall conduct QA inspections for a representative sample of permits, and make recommendations for changes as necessary.  See Appendix A for Hot Work Inspection checklist. 8.2 EH&S shall conduct an annual evaluation of the hot work program as part of the annual evaluation of the NYU Langone Hospitals Fire Safety Management Plan. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 13 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Related Safety Policies 120: Construction Safety Requirements 138: Confined Space Entry Program 145: Interim Life Safety Program 163: Ladders, Scaffolds and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Appendix A NYU Langone Health Hot Work Inspection Checklist Issue date 03/2023 Replaces 02/2021 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities R. Cohen, Facilities Operations C. Coltun, RED+F Construction B. Farrell, Real Estate S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety B. Kenny, NYULH LI, Engineering D. Resnick, RED+F Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Facilities Engineering NYULH Construction Safety Committee NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 14 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2023 2.0 Adds certifications, licenses and evidence of training definition. Revises hot work definition 3.0 Adds alternatives to Hot Work and Risk Reduction section 4.0 Adds Planning of High Risk Hot Work section 5.0 Revises Responsibilities for EH&S, Vice Presidents and Directors, Managers, PMs and TCs, Facilities Forepersons, Controlling Contractors, Hot Workers and Fire Watch Appendices Revises Hot Work Inspection Checklist Removes Appendix A Hot Work Permit Requirements, Section 2: Work Area Preparation Re alphabetizes “Appendix B” to “Appendix A” February 2021 Throughout Updates NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 Minor edits February 2020 2.0 Adds brazing and soldering to the definition of hot work 3.2 Clarifies that Real Estate is only responsible for occupied leased sites 3.3 Adds that PMs are responsible for authorizing permits at unoccupied leased sites 3.6, 3.7, 4.3, Appendix B Minor edits September 2019 Throughout Changes fire guard to fire watch/guard Throughout Changes referenced NYC agencies to Authorities Having Jurisdiction Throughout Changes NYU Langone to NYULH as needed 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 4.1 Changes 2 weeks to 1 week 6.5 Prohibits hot work on roofs Reviewed by Adds NYU Winthrop Hospital review February 2018 2.0 Revises hot work permit definition 3.5 Revises hot work permit and adds comply with building management language 3.7 Revises fire guard presence/inspection language to align with NYC Fire Code requirements 4.1 Adds “planned” to hot work in, or in close proximity to, a confined space Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 15 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Revision date Section Changes 4.2 Modifies exception language. Eliminates reference to leased properties 6.6 Adds precaution for hot work performed on tank/vessel that was pressurized or housed a combustible, flammable or toxic solid, liquid or gas 6.7 Adds need for a smoke eater or proper exhaust ventilation when performing welding, grinding or other odor or smoke producing hot work August 2017 Throughout Updates organizational references Appendix B Updates checklist July 2017 3.4 Clarifies foreperson responsibilities 3.6 Allows use of an electronic permit, in lieu of a paper copy 3.6. 4.3 Eliminates the requirement for the hot worker and fire guard to sign the permit 4.2 Changes “each day” to “within 24 hours” Allows use of controlling contractors hot work program for work in leased space. 4.3 Allows electronic permits and signatures. Appendix B Adds new checklist item for signage “Caution: Hot Work in Progress” February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone Removes reference to a separate Lutheran hot work program 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 2.0 Changes definition of hot work permit to reference NYU Langone’s new online permitting system 3.0, 4.0 Reflects new online permitting system 3.1 Adds a QA program to EH&S responsibilities. 3.7 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B. 5.0 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B 6.0 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B. 8.1 Adds a formal QA program. Appendix A Eliminates old paper permit. Changes content to focus on Section 2 of the new online permitting system. Incorporates relevant content from Appendix B. Appendix B Eliminates previous information. Adds new inspection checklist. September 2016 4.1 Clarifies daily submission of hot work permits. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 16 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Revision date Section Changes May 2016 Policy & General Information References Lutheran’s hot work program. Purpose Changes “NYC Fire Code” to “all NYC regulations” 2.0 Adds definitions for “competent person” and “controlling contractor” Approves use of non NYULMC hot work permit as authorized by EH&S 3.2 Clarifies responsibilities at offsite facilities 3.3 Adds Tenant Coordinator responsibilities at offsite locations Adds DoB license and FDNY CoF requirement for mechanics performing hot work and acting as fire guard 3.4 Adds Facilities’ foreperson responsibilities 3.5 Clarifies Controlling contractors’ responsibilities 4.0 Clarifies hot work permitting procedures Summary of Revisions Adds of Summary of Revisions Appendix A Updates Hot Work Permit Appendix B Clarifies instructions for filling out hot work permits Safety Policy 143, Appendix A Revised: March 6, 2023 NYU Langone Health Hot Work Inspection Checklist Project Name: PIM#: Inspected By: Bldg/Floor/ Location: Facilities shop/Contractor: Inspection Date: Project/Facilities Manager: Inspection Time: Requirement Met Not Met N/A Comments Hot work involving any of the following has been planned with NYULH EH&S, with special precautions implemented: on or over a roof at height on a tank on medical gas system in shaft or confined space performed by contractor in an occupied area use of propane/natural gas/liquid oxygen coated/painted metal, stainless steel, aluminum Facilities foreperson/controlling contractor’s competent person has inspected the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, utilizing this checklist, and signed the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). Completed checklists are kept with associated hot work permit Smoke/heat detector shutdown requested and verified Sprinklers in hot work area are active. Sprinkler head(s) in close proximity to hot work are protected against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier). Protection is removed when hot work is complete and at the end of each workday Supply and return registers in work area are capped with sheet metal and sealed smoke tight The floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean All floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings are sealed using smoke tight, fire resistant materials Flammables and movable combustibles within a 35 foot radius of hot work, as well as in open areas below, have been removed Immovable combustibles and openings have been fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets Where specified, a water hose is charged and immediately available for use An approved NYULH hot work permit, valid for the date, time and location, is available for inspection in the work area The hot worker is named on the permit and can produce a valid FDNY G 60 torch CoF or DoB license for structural welding (NYC) or welding/cutting CoF (Nassau County) Hot work equipment properly assembled and inspected for loose connections, damage and leaks (using soapy water) prior to use Safety Policy 143, Appendix A Revised: March 6, 2023 Requirement Met Not Met N/A Comments Date stamp on compressed gas cylinder confirms certification within required time period (e.g. oxygen 5 yrs, acetylene 10 yrs) For both single and dual gas torch operations, a UL listed flashback arrestor with integrated check valve is in place at both the torch and regulator All fire watch/guard personnel are named on the permit and can produce a valid FDNY F 60 CoF (NYC) or evidence of training (Long Island) Fire watch/guard is present, with no other duties, during all hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work. In NYC, Fire guard maintains a record of fire watch on premise for 48 hours Where required, there are additional fire watch/guards in other areas at risk for fire, with no other duties All fire watch/guards have a minimum 10 lb. ABC fire extinguisher, inspected and fully charged, immediately available All fire watch/guards know P A S S All fire watch/guards have charged radios or cell phones All fire watch/guards know the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and NYULH procedure for reporting a fire Hot worker is wearing appropriate protective clothing and equipment “Caution: Hot Work in Progress Stay Clear” signage is posted at the approach to the hot work area (New York City) All compressed gas cylinders are secured upright in a cart or carrier/stand a safe distance back from hot work Flammable gas and oxygen cylinders are turned off when unattended, capped prior to transport and removed from the building when not in use and at the end of each work day Electric welder powered down when not in use and at the end of each work day There is a smoke eater or appropriate exhaust ventilation in use at the point of work Other Findings


Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 1 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect staff, patients, students, tenants, visitors, vendors, and members of the community from exposure to lead that is present in building materials. To comply with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH) regulations. TABLE OF CONTENTS Section Title Page 1.0 Background ............................................................................................................. 2 2.0 Application .............................................................................................................. 2 3.0 Scope ....................................................................................................................... 2 4.0 Definitions............................................................................................................... 3 5.0 Responsibilities ....................................................................................................... 3 5.1 NYULH LI Engineering ................................................................................ 3 5.2 Environmental Health and Safety .................................................................. 4 5.3 NYULH LI Hospitality Services ................................................................... 4 5.4 Facilities, Housekeeping, Information Technology, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction .................................................................. 4 5.5 Managers and Project Managers .................................................................... 5 5.6 Occupational Health Services ........................................................................ 5 5.7 Employees ...................................................................................................... 5 5.8 Contractors ..................................................................................................... 6 6.0 Lead Control Program............................................................................................. 6 6.1 Prohibited activities ....................................................................................... 6 6.2 Lead investigations ........................................................................................ 6 6.3 General work practices and controls for work involving lead ..................... 7 6.4 Additional requirements for employees ......................................................... 8 6.5 Additional requirements for contractors ........................................................ 9 6.6 Disposal of lead waste ................................................................................... 9 7.0 Recordkeeping ....................................................................................................... 10 8.0 Program Evaluation ............................................................................................... 10 Related Safety Policies .......................................................................................... 11 Appendix A: Sample Specifications for Clean up of Lead Containing Paint Appendix B: Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint Abatement Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 2 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Background Exposure to lead has long been recognized as a serious health hazard. OSHA has two standards (29 CFR 1910.1025 and 29 CFR 1926.62) to protect workers and their families from lead. The EPA and the NYC DOHMH have passed legislation to protect children from exposure to lead paint, and the EPA also regulates lead in drinking water. 2.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH The primary departments and divisions impacted by the policy are: Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering) Housekeeping (Building Services, Environmental Services, NYULH LI Hospitality Services) IT Real Estate RED+F Design and Construction 3.0 Scope This policy applies to all work that has the potential to disturb lead containing building materials. It includes, but is not limited to:  alteration, renovation, demolition, or salvage of structures  scraping, sanding, abrasive blasting, welding, cutting, or torch burning  installation, encapsulation, or removal of lead containing building materials (e.g., lead shielding)  emergency clean up of lead containing building materials  management and disposal of waste Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 3 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 4.0 Definitions Certified refers to certification under the EPA’s Lead Renovation, Repair, and Painting Rule (RRP). Child Occupied Facility (COF) means a building, or portion of a building, constructed prior to 1978, that is visited regularly by the same child, 6 years or younger, on at least two different days within any week, with each day's visit lasting at least 3 hours, and the combined annual visits lasting at least 60 hours. Examples include day care centers, preschools or kindergarten classrooms, inpatient pediatric units, and common areas that are routinely used by children 6 or younger, such as restrooms and cafeterias. Hallways, stairways, and garages are not included. For buildings that contain a COF, the COF includes the exterior sides of the building immediately adjacent to it. Health and Safety Plan (HASP) refers to a document that describes the hazards involved in a project, and the processes and equipment that will be used to mitigate them. Lead abatement refers to activities undertaken in a child occupied facility to eliminate lead based paint hazards. Lead based paint (LBP) refers to paint or other surface coating which has a lead content greater than or equal to 1.0 milligram per square centimeter (mg/cm2), or is greater than or equal to 0. lead by weight (5,000 ppm). Lead containing paint (LCP) refers to paint or other surface coating which contains any measurable concentration of lead. OSHA action level is an 8 hour time weighted average exposure of 30 micrograms of lead per cubic meter of air (µg/m3). OSHA permissible exposure limit (PEL) is an 8 hour time weighted average exposure of 50 µg/m3. PPE refers to personal protective equipment. 5.0 Responsibilities 5.1 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Engineering is responsible for the program to manage lead in building materials (the Program) at NYULH LI main campus and Research and Academic Center (RAC). 5.2 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for other locations. Their responsibilities include: Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 4 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021  developing the Program and collaborating with others to implement it  coordinating lead investigations  coordinating employee exposure assessments  coordinating awareness training for employees whose work could disturb lead containing building materials  reviewing HASPs for contractor work involving lead containing building materials  coordinating the response to spills of lead containing building materials  maintaining documentation for lead investigations and employee exposure assessments  periodically evaluating the Program and updating it as needed At locations other than NYULH LI main campus and RAC, EH&S is also responsible for:  coordinating testing to determine if waste is regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)  managing the disposal of RCRA regulated lead containing building materials, and maintaining documentation for waste disposal 5.3 NYULH LI Hospitality Services is responsible for disposal of RCRA regulated lead containing waste from NYULH LI main campus and RAC. Their responsibilities include:  coordinating testing, managing disposal, and maintaining records.  coordinating the response to spills of lead containing building materials 5.4 Facilities, Housekeeping, Information Technology (IT), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for compliance within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  coordinating lead awareness training (annual recommended) for their staff  ensuring their employees and vendors who could disturb lead containing building materials are familiar and comply with this policy  ensuring NYULH LI Engineering or EH&S is notified of any activities that could disturb lead containing building materials Note: NYULH has not identified any employees who are exposed to lead levels above OSHA’s action level. However, if that were to happen, their departments Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 5 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 would be responsible for compliance with all additional regulatory requirements, including training and medical surveillance. 5.5 Managers and Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, maintenance, and real estate) are responsible for implementing and managing the program on their projects. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  ensuring that any personnel (e.g., employees, contractors, other vendors) working on their projects whose work could disturb lead containing building materials are familiar and comply with this policy  contacting NYULH LI Engineering or EH&S in writing and requesting an investigation for work that could disturb lead containing building materials  sharing the results of lead investigations with contractors  ensuring work in child occupied facilities complies with Local Law 1 of 2004  incorporating appropriate specifications (for examples, see Appendices A and B) into bid documents if contracted work could disturb lead containing building materials  ensuring contractors comply with the OSHA lead in construction standard and NYULH requirements for controlling air contaminants on construction sites  forwarding the contractor’s HASP to EH&S or NYULH LI Engineering for review, at least one week prior to scheduled work; ensuring contractors implement their HASPs  arranging a secure location for collection of lead containing waste from their projects  contacting EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services to determine the appropriate method for disposing of lead containing waste Real Estate managers are also responsible for:  complying with all requirements for disclosure of LBP hazards in pre 1978 housing 5.6 Occupational Health Services (OHS) is responsible for:  providing medical surveillance as needed to address employee concerns about exposure to lead, and maintaining medical records 5.7 Employees who have the potential to disturb lead containing building materials are responsible for:  completing lead awareness training, and other lead training as needed Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 6 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021  following departmental procedures for minimizing lead exposures during routine work  requesting a lead investigation prior to any non routine work that could impact lead containing building materials  notifying supervisors of potential lead exposures or other pertinent problems 5.8 Contractors who have the potential to disturb lead containing building materials are responsible for:  complying with the relevant OSHA standard  complying with NYULH requirements for controlling air contaminants on construction sites  developing, submitting for review, and implementing a written HASP, as needed  complying with Local Law 1 of 2004 when working in child occupied facilities  properly managing lead containing waste, and coordinating removal with EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services, as needed 6.0 Lead Control Program 6.1 Prohibited activities NYULH prohibits the following methods on surfaces coated with LCP  dry sanding (unless the sander is equipped with HEPA vacuum)  hot work (e.g. torch cutting or open flame)  methylene chloride paint removal in indoor locations  open abrasive blasting In rare instances where there is no feasible alternative, personnel shall submit a written HASP to EH&S for review and comment, and implement the HASP. 6.2 Lead investigations  Managers and PMs shall request lead investigations in preparation for demolition, construction, renovation, or maintenance work: in buildings built in or prior to 1978 impacting painted metal surfaces (e.g., structural steel, tanks, fire escapes) Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 7 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 involving lead shielding where it is reasonable to anticipate the disturbance of lead containing building materials  All surveys shall be conducted by EPA certified inspectors. 6.3 General work practices and controls for work involving lead  Employees shall incorporate appropriate measures to control lead containing dust, debris, fume, and waste during routine in house operations and maintenance activities. NYU Langone’s Standard Safety Precautions for In house Operations and Maintenance Activities (see Safety Policy 145: Interim Life Safety Program) incorporates appropriate controls for many common building maintenance activities involving presumed LCP, as long as the paint is in good condition. For example, the standard safety precautions are generally adequate for activities such as opening wall cavities, and preparing interior walls, ceilings, doors, door frames, windows, window frames and similar surfaces for painting.  Prior to initiating non routine work that will disturb lead containing building materials, personnel shall submit to EH&S for approval a HASP outlining proposed work practices.  Workers performing lead abatement, or renovation, repair, or painting projects that will disturb LBP in a child occupied facility shall possess current EPA certification under the Lead Renovation, Repair and Painting Rule (RRP).  Workers shall use engineering and administrative controls and appropriate work practices to minimize exposure to lead, to the extent that such controls are feasible. Recommended controls include: local exhaust ventilation, with an adequate number of exhaust units to maintain negative pressure plastic sheeting or hard barriers to isolate the work area from adjoining areas sticky mats at entrances/exits to work sites sealing penetrations and capping diffusers wet methods for removing peeling paint HEPA vacuums and/or wet methods for cleanup of dust, ensuring no accumulation of dust access to handwashing facilities for workers; showers, where feasible clean changing areas for workers Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 8 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021  When engineering and administrative controls are not sufficient to reduce worker exposure below OSHA’s PEL, controls shall be supplemented by use of respiratory protection. Workers shall use respirators in accordance with Safety Policy 109: Respiratory Protection.  Workers shall use other PPE (e.g., disposable full body suits with hoods and shoes; goggles; gloves) as needed, consistent with Safety Policy 119: Personal Protective Equipment. 6.4 Additional requirements for employees  Exposure assessment If employees must perform non routine work that could disturb lead containing building materials, their manager shall request that EH&S evaluate potential exposures. − EH&S shall coordinate personal air monitoring on employees performing the work, using OSHA methods of sampling and analysis. − Managers shall notify employees of the results.  Medical surveillance OHS shall provide medical consultations to employees: − who are, or may be, exposed at or above the OSHA action level for more than 30 days per year − who report signs or symptoms associated with lead poisoning − who request medical advice about exposures to lead If employee exposure exceeds the OSHA action level, OHS shall implement a medical surveillance program in accordance with OSHA 1910.1025 (j)(3).  Information and training Employees whose work may disturb lead containing building materials shall receive lead awareness training. At a minimum, awareness training shall include information on the health hazards of and controls for lead exposure (Appendices A and B of OSHA 1910.1025). Employees who are subject to lead exposure at or above the action level, or for whom the possibility of skin or eye irritation exists, shall receive annual training as per OSHA 1910.1025 (l). Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 9 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 6.5 Additional requirements for contractors  When performing work that may disturb LCP, contractors shall comply with OSHA’s standard for lead in construction (29 CFR 1926.62) and NYULH requirements for controlling air contaminants on construction sites (see Safety Policy 120: Construction Safety Requirements).  Sample specifications for repainting surfaces coated with LCP are included as Appendix A.  Contractors shall develop a written HASP for any high risk activity (e.g. hot work or abrasive blasting), work involving elemental lead (e.g. removal or installation of lead shielding), work impacting child occupied facilities, or upon request from EH&S (e.g., for tasks that may generate fume, or work in sensitive areas).  The written HASP shall include: a description of each activity that will disturb lead containing materials (i.e., type of activity, equipment used, material involved, crew size, location of the work, operating procedures and maintenance practices) specific measures that will be implemented to control airborne lead (e.g. engineering controls, rotation schedules, housekeeping activities) types of PPE that personnel shall use a description of hygiene facilities and work practices that will be implemented to minimize potential exposure (e.g., change areas, eating facilities, hand washing) an emergency action plan any arrangements made among contractors on multi contractor sites with respect to informing affected employees of potential exposure to lead and responsibility for compliance with OSHA’s standard for lead in construction procedures for collecting and discarding waste other relevant information  Contractors shall submit HASPs for EH&S review and approval prior to commencing work. 6.6 Disposal of lead waste  Managers, PMs and employees shall contact EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services, as applicable, to determine appropriate disposal methods for lead waste. Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 10 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021  Managers and PMs shall provide relevant information (i.e. location, types of waste, on site contact person name and number) as early as possible, at least one week prior to scheduled work.  Contractors shall manage lead containing waste as per Safety Policy 108a: Hazardous Waste from Contractors.  EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services, as applicable, shall coordinate: recycling of metals coated with LCP, lead shielding, and vests/aprons that contain lead disposal of lead containing glass (e.g. from shielding) testing to determine if lead containing waste is RCRA regulated disposal of RCRA regulated lead waste  EH&S or NYULH LI Hospitality Services, as applicable, shall comply with hazardous waste requirements. 7.0 Recordkeeping 7.1 Exposure monitoring and medical surveillance records shall be maintained for 40 years, or 20 years plus the duration of employment, whichever is longer. • EH&S or NYULH LI Engineering, as applicable, shall maintain records of exposure monitoring. • OHS shall maintain medical surveillance records. 7.2 EH&S or NYULH LI Engineering, as applicable, shall maintain documentation of lead investigations. 7.3 Real Estate shall maintain records for disclosure of LBP hazards in pre 1978 housing. 7.4 Managers shall maintain training records for a minimum of one year following the last day of employment. 7.5 Employee training records and personal exposure monitoring records shall be available to the employee, employee representatives, and OSHA, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. 8.0 Program evaluation EH&S shall evaluate the Program as part of the annual evaluation of NYU Langone’s Hazardous Materials and Wastes Management Plan. Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 11 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 Related Safety Policies 108a: Hazardous Waste from Construction and Building Maintenance 109: Respiratory Protection Program 119: Personal Protective Equipment 120: Construction Safety Requirements 121: Hazard Communication Program 143: Hot Work Program 145: Interim Life Safety Program Appendix A Sample Specifications for Clean up of Lead Containing Paint Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint Abatement Issue date 03/2021 Replaces 02/2017 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety K. Han, Radiation Oncology D. Resnick, RED+F Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Engineering NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Policy Name Changes from “Lead Management Program” to “Lead Management Program for Building Materials” Throughout Edits for clarity Changes “create lead containing dust, debris, fume, or waste” to “disturb lead containing building materials” 2.0 Incorporates NYU Langone Hospital LI and NYU Long Island School of Medicine and Housekeeping departments Removes “Radiation Oncology” as a primary impacted department Safety Policy Manual Policy 144 Policy: Lead Management Program for Building Materials Page 12 of 13 Revised: March 4, 2021 (3.0) Moves information to more appropriate sections of the policy 3.0 Clarifies that the policy applies to building construction and maintenance work Removes reference to mold casting in Radiation Oncology 4.0 Updates definition of “certified” Expands definition of “Child Occupied Facility” Adds definitions of “Health and Safety Plan”, “lead containing paint”, and “PPE” Updates definition of “lead abatement” to reference “child occupied facility” 5.1 and 5.2 Adds responsibilities of NYULH LI Engineering and Hospitality Services 5.3 Changes “Vice Presidents and Directors” to “Facilities, Housekeeping, Information Technology (IT), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction” Notes that NYULH has not identified any exposures above OSHA’s action level 5.4 Adds Real Estate managers Adds responsibility for sharing lead investigations with contractors 5.5 Eliminates reference to OSHA mandated medical surveillance program 6.1 Sharpens language on prohibited activities Appendix A New September 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 2.0 Moves Application from Section 4.0 to Section 2.0 Defines NYU Langone 3.0 Becomes Policy 4.0 Becomes Scope Review by Adds review from HJD, NYU Lutheran, and LFHC Environment of Care Committees May 2016 1.0 Moves Background from Section 4.0 to Section 1.0 4.0 Adds NYU Langone Health Systems and Lutheran Facilities Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 144, Appendix A Sample Specifications for Clean up of Lead Containing Paint (LCP) Revised: March 4, 2021 The following are sample specifications for cleanup of lead containing paint or LCP (e.g. when there is a noteworthy amount of peeling paint). Contractors shall conduct cleanup in a way that limits the potential for exposure to workers and building occupants in accordance with NYULH requirements and the OSHA standard for Lead in Construction (29 CFR 1926.62). Prior to the start of the work, the Project Manager or other responsible party shall coordinate: • Access to areas with LCP scheduled for cleanup. • MEP disconnects. The contractor shall ensure: • Their company has a written lead control program, which includes maintaining records. • Workers have appropriate lead training. • The work site is separated from adjacent spaces with appropriate barriers (e.g. plastic sheeting, hard barrier), which includes sealing HVAC registers and openings. • Workers pre clean the work area using HEPA vacuums and/or wet methods. • The site is under negative pressure throughout the duration of the cleanup. • Workers have access to handwashing facilities for the duration of the work. • They conduct an exposure assessment as required by OSHA. • Workers use only HEPA equipped tools (including vacuums) and wet methods (e.g. water mist sprayer). • Pre filters on HEPA filtered equipment are changed frequently. • Workers clean site frequently to ensure there is no dust mitigation to adjacent areas.. • Following LCP removal/cleanup, workers conduct a final cleanup (e.g. using HEPA vacuum, wiping down surfaces with a neutralizing agent/detergent such as Ledizolv) to ensure all dust and debris are removed from surfaces. • Appropriate methods are used to prevent additional peeling, where applicable (e.g. painting surfaces with a latex primer). • The work area is secured/locked during off hours. Safety Policy 144, Appendix A Sample Specifications for Clean up of Lead Containing Paint (LCP) Revised: March 4, 2021 • Cleanup materials (e.g. tools, used PPE, waste) are not stored outside of the work area (e.g. adjacent corridors, offices, stairwells). • Paint waste is collected for TCLP testing. PPE and containment materials may need to be collected separately. Waste collection and disposal shall be coordinated with the PM and/or EH&S. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 Qualifications Trained and certified lead abatement contractors and workers shall be used to perform the project. Each supervisor and worker assigned to the project must have EPA certification available at the project site. Contractors must possess an EPA Contractor Certification Number. Training a) The workers who remove paint shall be trained as required under the OSHA Lead in Construction standard 1926.62 and shall be certified by EPA as lead abatement workers as per EPA/HUD lead paint regulations. b) The work shall be supervised by a trained competent person who is an EPA certified lead paint supervisor and is fully knowledgeable of general renovation techniques, including LBP abatement. c) The supervisor shall be trained on engineering controls and good work practices relating to lead paint abatement and on the importance of adherence to these controls and practices. Personnel protection Any work that may produce lead airborne dust or fumes shall be conducted by trained workers using engineering controls and work practice controls to prevent exposure to lead dust and fumes and wearing appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE). a) Respiratory protection shall be worn at all times during lead abatement activities by all individuals performing the work or those in the work area who may be exposed to lead dust or fumes. b) Hand scraping of paint shall require half mask tight fitting respirators with N100 cartridges. c) The contractor shall perform personal monitoring for lead exposure. The following are the minimum respiratory protection requirements based on air sample results: i. Air lead levels of 500 µg/m3 or less: Half mask air purifying (protection 10X) respirator with high efficiency filters; or half mask supplied air respirator operated in demand (negative pressure) mode. ii. Air lead levels between 500 µg/m3 and 1,250 µg/m3: Loose fitting hood or helmet (protection 25X) powered air purifying respirator with high efficiency filters; or hood or helmet supplied air respirator operated in continuous flow mode (e.g., type CE abrasive blasting respirators operated in a continuous flow mode). iii. Air lead levels between 1250 µg/m3 and µg/m3: Full facepiece air purifying (protection 50X) respirator with high efficiency filters; tight fitting powered air purifying respirator with high efficiency filters; full facepiece supplied air respirator operated in demand mode; half mask or full facepiece supplied air respirator operated Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 in a continuous flow mode; or full facepiece self contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) operated in demand mode. iv. Air lead levels between 2500 µg/m3 and 50,000 µg/m3: Half mask supplied air (protection 1,000X) respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode. v. Air lead levels between 50,000 µg/m3 and 100,000 µg/m3: Full facepiece supplied air (protection 2,000X) respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode (e.g., type CE abrasive blasting respirators operated in a positive pressure mode). vi. Greater than 100,000 µg/m3, unknown concentration or firefighting: Full facepiece SCBA operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode (protection over 2000X). d) Only approved National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) respirators shall be used. Respirators shall be properly fitted for all persons working at the site. e) The manufacturer’s instructions shall be followed for maintenance, proper fit, use of appropriate cartridges, cleaning, repair, and replacement of defective parts, appropriate storage, and frequency of cartridge replacement for the specific respirator in use. f) Respirators shall not be removed while in the work site or work area. g) Additional respiratory protection by supplemental filters, such as organic vapor cartridges, may be needed when handling some coating or chemical stripping products. Consult the Safety Data Sheets (SDS) or the manufacturer and obtain the proper filters as necessary. h) Individuals at the work site shall wear full body suits with hoods and shoe covers, as well as gloves. A TYVEK or similar type of disposable suit may be worn. Disposable suits shall be used once, and properly discarded. Protective clothing, as described above, and other PPE shall be put on prior to entering the work site or work area. Protective clothing shall be worn in the work site or work area until it has been thoroughly cleaned as described in clean up activities. Protective clothing shall be changed before leaving the work site or work area and non disposable suits shall be laundered separately. An area other than the work site or work area shall be provided for persons to put on suits and other PPE and to store their street clothes. i) Goggles with side shields shall be worn when working with a material that may splash or fragment, or if protective eye wear is specified on the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for the product. Paint removal methods Abatement of lead paint shall not employ the following methods:  open flame burning Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021  dry sanding  open abrasive blasting  uncontained hydro blasting  methylene chloride for interior use Removal of lead paint shall employ only the following methods:  nonflammable chemical strippers which do not contain methylene chloride, except that chemical strippers containing methylene chloride may be used for localized touch up (for further requirements refer to Safety Policy 120: Construction Safety Requirements)  Manual scraping using a HEPA vacuum cleaner to collect dust  Sander equipped with HEPA vacuum Warning signs a) Warning signs shall be posted at all approaches to the work area. The warning sign shall indicate a warning that the area is a lead work area. Lettering shall be at least 1” high and bold. b) The work area shall be vacated of non abatement personnel. c) Tenant Notification: At least 3 days before removing, enclosing, or encapsulating lead paint, post caution signs immediately outside all entrances and exits to the work site. In emergency situations posting shall be done as soon as possible. Keep the caution signs posted until the lead abatement is completed. The caution signs shall meet the following specifications: i. the sign shall be at least 20" by 14", and state the date and place of the lead abatement project; and ii. the sign shall include the phrase "Caution, Lead Hazard, Keep Out" or "Warning, Lead Work Area, Keep Out" in bold lettering, at least two inches high. Hygiene practices a) Eating, drinking, smoking, and applying of cosmetics are not allowed in the work site or work area. Any person leaving the work site or work area shall rinse his or her mouth with potable water and wash hands and face thoroughly before eating, drinking or smoking. b) Decontamination enclosure systems shall be installed/constructed outside the work area and/or at the entrance to the work area. The personal decontamination enclosure system shall be of sufficient size and dimensions to accommodate the largest anticipated work shift and shall be maintained to ensure all workers can properly use the system. A waste storage area shall be established. Decontamination enclosures shall be equipped with curtained doorways (air locks) and shall have lockable doors for off hours. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 c) All individuals shall wash or shower before leaving the work site or work area for the day. d) A lavatory facility or potable water supply or a portable decontamination unit shall be provided and located at the work site or work area for the washing of hands and face and for clean up activities. Work procedures (exterior paint removal) Before beginning to abate the lead paint: a) Seal all windows on the level of work and all levels below the work. b) For all sealing and covering of windows and interior and exterior abatement work, use the following: i. Plastic sheeting, at least 6 mils thick or equivalent; ii. Polyethylene sheeting shall be sufficiently overlapped and all joints shall be fully sealed. Polyethylene sheeting shall be fire retardant and have a minimum thickness of 6 mil. Floor surfaces shall be contained with two (2) layers of reinforced, fire retardant 6 mil polyethylene sheeting. iii. Duct tape or equivalent waterproof tape spray adhesives; or other additional appropriate work practices to contain particulate lead or lead containing liquids. c) For removal of the lead paint by manual scraping the following precautions shall be followed: i. When water/liquid waste is produced by any abatement technique used, plastic sheeting at least 6 mils thick shall be placed on the ground, as close as possible to the building foundation, or on the floor when applicable. Sheeting placed on the ground or floor shall be raised at its edge and extended a sufficient distance to contain the liquid waste. ii. When non liquid waste is produced by any abatement technique used, plastic sheeting at least 6 mils thick shall be placed on the ground, as close as possible to the building foundation, or on the floor when applicable. Sheeting placed on the ground or floor shall extend out from the foundation 3 feet per story being abated, with a minimum of 5 feet and a maximum of 20 feet. iii. Sheeting shall be secured at the foundations and along all edges and seams. iv. If the wind speed causes visible dust during an exterior abatement project producing dry waste, abatement shall not be continued or performed unless vertical shrouds are erected. Cleanup of work site Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 After completion of each day’s work the site shall be completely cleaned by removing plastic sheeting and HEPA vacuuming surfaces: Daily cleaning at end of shift a) The dust and debris collection method shall be selected in conjunction with the paint removal method to assure the methods are compatible and can be integrated. b) Dust and debris may be collected from the surface at the point of removal or from the general work area. c) Debris shall be collected on a regular basis and shall not be left to accumulate in the work area during the course of removal. Collection of debris from ground covers and horizontal surfaces shall occur while the material is wet using acceptable means that are not destructive to the containment materials. d) Deposit all lead waste, including sealing tape and plastic sheeting, in double plastic bags at least 4 mils thick or single bags 6 mils thick or equivalent, and seal the bags. e) Before washing, vacuum clean all surfaces in the work site including, walls, windows, window wells, and fire escape and scaffolding with a HEPA vacuum. f) After vacuum cleaning, wet wash all surfaces in the work site including walls, windows, window wells, scaffolding floors and the fire escape with a solution containing a phosphate free detergent. g) If visible residue remains after washing and allowing all surfaces to dry, vacuum all surfaces with HEPA vacuum. h) Deposit all lead waste from clean up, including mop heads, sponges, filters, and disposable clothing, in double plastic bags at least 4 mils thick or single bags 6 mils thick, and seal the bags. Used/dirty PPE and disposable clothing should be kept separate from all other lead waste. Final clean up a) After removal of the paint, all surfaces shall be wet wiped and HEPA vacuumed. b) A visual inspection shall be performed by the contractor lead abatement supervisor to confirm the absence of dust and/or debris and that abated surfaces are clean of residual paint. c) The polyethylene sheeting shall be removed by folding inward so that residual dust and/or debris are within the polyethylene sheeting. d) A second visual inspection shall be performed by the contractor lead abatement supervisor to confirm the absence of dust and/or debris. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 e) As a prerequisite to commencement of clearance air monitoring, a thorough visual inspection by the NYU Langone Project Manager or his/her designee shall verify the absence of residual paint and dust/debris from the work area. Air Monitoring/Sampling a) Daily area air samples shall be collected on representative workers performing the work as well as in the vicinity, but outside the work area containment barriers to assure the action level is not exceeded outside containment. b) Personal samples and area monitoring air samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with NIOSH method 7082 Lead by Flame Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry (AAS) with 24 hour turnaround time by an ELAP certified laboratory (or other validated NIOSH method). The results of area air samples shall be posted daily at the beginning of the work shift. Waste Disposal a) Make arrangements, 1 month in advance of project start date, with NYU Langone Environmental Health and Safety for waste disposal. b) Place LBP chips, debris, and lead dust in double 4 mil or single 6 mil polyethylene bags or equivalent that are air tight and puncture resistant. Pieces of wood or other large items that do not fit into plastic bags shall be wrapped with double 4 mil or single 6 mil plastic sheeting and sealed. c) Place all disposable cleaning materials, such as sponges, mop heads, filters, disposable clothing, and brooms in double 4 mil or single 6 mil plastic bags, or equivalent, and seal. d) Remove plastic sheeting and tape from covered surfaces. Prior to removing the plastic sheeting, the sheeting shall be lightly misted in order to keep dust down and folded inward to form tight small bundles to bag for disposal. All plastic sheeting shall be placed in double 4 mil or single 6 mil thick plastic bags, or equivalent, and shall be sealed. e) Bag and seal vacuum cleaner bags and filters in double 4 mil or single 6 mil thick plastic bags or equivalent. f) Place all contaminated clothing or clothing covers used during abatement and cleanup in plastic bags for disposal prior to leaving equipment room, work site or work area. g) Place solvent residues and residues from strippers in drums made from materials that cannot be dissolved or corroded by chemicals contained in those solvents and strippers. Solvents shall be tested to determine if they are hazardous. Solvents and caustic and acid waste shall not be stored in the same containers. h) Contain and properly dispose of all liquid waste, including lead dust contaminated wash water. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 i) HEPA vacuum the exterior of all waste containers prior to removing the waste containers from the work site or area and wet wipe the containers to ensure that there is no residual contamination. Containers that have been cleaned shall be moved out of the work site or area into a designated storage area. j) Carefully place the containers into the truck or dumpster used for disposal. k) Ensure that all waste is transported in covered vehicles to an approved landfill. Records Contractor shall maintain accurate and complete records of items listed below for a minimum six years.  Inspections and work reports.  Complete description of the abatement work area and abatement surfaces.  Complete records of any changes in work procedures.  List of all trained and certified workers on the project.  List of PPE used throughout the entire project.  Activities by regulating agencies.  Air monitoring and test results.  Disposal, test results and disposition of waste.


Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 1 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To ensure adequate life safety protection: • When egress is obstructed • When a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system is impaired • When Life Safety Code deficiencies cannot immediately be corrected • During periods of construction and renovation To comply with federal, state, and local regulations, and NFPA 101: The Life Safety Code. TABLE OF CONTENTS Section Title Page 1.0 Application ......................................................................................................... 2 2.0 Introduction ........................................................................................................ 2 3.0 Responsibilities .................................................................................................. 3 4.0 Criteria for implementing a fire watch............................................................... 6 5.0 Criteria for selecting and implementing other Interim Life Safety measures (ILSMs) .............................................................................................................. 7 6.0 Building maintenance: ILSM risk assessment process ...................................... 9 7.0 Construction/renovation: ILS risk assessment process ...................................... 9 8.0 Implementation and monitoring of ILSMs ....................................................... 10 9.0 ILS and Interim Evacuation Plans .................................................................... 11 10.0 Standard safety precautions for in house operations and maintenance ............ 12 Appendix A: Sample Construction/ILS Permit Appendix B: Construction Safety Inspection Checklist Appendix C: ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Appendix D: ILSM Assessment Tool Appendix E: NYULH LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan Appendix F: ILSM Matrix Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 2 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Introduction The Joint Commission (TJC) requires that hospitals develop and implement an ILS policy. The policy must include written criteria for evaluating when and to what extent the hospital implements one or more of the following special measures to compensate for increased life safety risk: 2.1 Evacuating the building, or notifying the fire department and implementing a fire watch. 2.2 Posting signs identifying alternate exits. 2.3 Inspecting exits in affected areas on a daily basis. 2.4 Providing temporary but equivalent fire alarm and detection systems for use when a fire system is impaired. 2.5 Providing additional fire fighting equipment. 2.6 Using temporary construction partitions that are smoke tight and made of noncombustible or limited combustible material that will not contribute to the development or spread of fire. 2.7 Increasing surveillance of buildings, grounds, and equipment, giving special attention to construction areas and storage, excavation, and field offices. 2.8 Enforcing storage, housekeeping, and debris removal practices that reduce the building’s flammable and combustible fire load to the lowest feasible level. 2.9 Providing additional training to those who work in the hospital on the use of fire fighting equipment. 2.10 Conducting one additional fire drill per shift per quarter. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 3 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 2.11 Inspecting and testing temporary systems monthly, and documenting the completion dates of the tests. 2.12 Providing education to promote awareness of building deficiencies, construction hazards, and temporary measures implemented to maintain fire safety. 2.13 Training those who work in the hospital to compensate for impaired structural or compartmental fire safety features. 2.14 Implementing other appropriate interim life safety measures (ILSMs). 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Planning, Design, and Construction is responsible for Interim Life Safety (ILS) Plans for construction on the NYUWH main campus and at the Research and Academic Center (RAC), including:  Creating ILS plans.  Submitting the ILS plans to either the Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance and Emergency Management for review and approval. 3.2 NYULH LI Engineering is responsible for ILS Plans for operations and maintenance work on the NYULH LI main campus and at the RAC, including:  Creating ILS plans  Submitting the ILS plans to either the Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance & Emergency Management for review and approval. 3.3 Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) is responsible for the Interim Life Safety Program at locations other than NYULH LI and the RAC, including:  Developing the ILS program (the Program).  Training personnel to implement the Program.  Developing and issuing documents that incorporate appropriate ILSMs for construction and renovation projects.  Conducting quality assurance (QA) inspections of construction, renovation, and facilities maintenance projects to verify that appropriate ILSMs have been implemented. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 4 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 EH&S and the NYULH LI Fire Safety Officer are also responsible for:  Developing and issuing ILS Plans and illustrated Interim Evacuation Plans (e.g., when there is a need to compromise egress) that incorporate appropriate ILSMs. EH&S is also responsible for:  Presenting quarterly summaries of the results of QA inspections of construction and renovation projects to the Construction Safety Subcommittee of the Environment of Care Committee.  Conducting QA inspections of facilities maintenance projects and reporting the results to Facilities. 3.4 Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering), Information Technology (IT), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for compliance within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Ensuring the Program is implemented on all construction, renovation, and maintenance projects.  Ensuring personnel who report to them: Implement the required ILSMs. Conduct regular ILS inspections of projects that require ILSMs.  Providing Security with current information on active projects (the Daily Security Site Inspection List) so Security staff can inspect exits in affected areas on a daily basis. In the buildings they maintain, Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for:  Conducting an ILSM Risk Assessment for TJC Survey related Plans for Improvement (SPFI) if a life safety code deficiency cannot be corrected within 60 days of a survey, and entering required documentation into the TJC website.  Conducting an ILSM Risk Assessment when building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies are not minor and/or cannot be corrected immediately (i.e., within 60 days).  Assessing the need for ILS Plans and Interim Evacuation Plans, and creating or requesting them in accordance with this policy.  Arranging for implementation of a fire watch (see Section 4). Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 5 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021  Functioning as the impairment coordinator, per Chapter 9 of the New York City (NYC) and New York State Fire Code, or applicable code in other municipalities  Ensuring their staff notify the authorities having jurisdiction when a fire protection system (standpipe, sprinkler, fire) is out of service In NYC, the Fire Department’s (FDNY’s) impairment unit (212.570.4300) At NYULH LI, the Nassau County Fire Marshal’s office (516.573.9900), with additional notification to a chief from the Mineola Fire Department for any fire pump impairment or extensive fire alarm system impairment. In other locations, the local fire marshal or fire department RED+F Design and Construction is also responsible for:  Summarizing data from daily inspections of construction/renovation projects and reporting it to the Construction Safety Committee. 3.5 Managers and Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, operations, maintenance, and cable management) are responsible for implementing and maintaining the Program on their projects. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Requesting ILS risk assessments in accordance with this policy.  Informing their contractors about the requirements of this policy.  Obtaining Construction and/or ILS Risk Assessments, Permits and Plans; ensuring Permits and Plans are posted in plastic sheet protectors at entrances to construction/renovation projects; and ensuring contractors comply with the terms of the permits and plans.  Notifying Facilities, Real Estate, or building management (as applicable): In advance of planned work which will result in impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system. Immediately of an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system resulting from an unscheduled event.  Arranging for implementation of a qualified fire watch (see Section 4) and ensuring that necessary notifications (e.g., to Facilities and Security, or building management) are made about the fire watch.  Conducting regular inspections of construction/renovation projects for which ILSMs are required. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 6 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 As a rule, daily unless otherwise specified, e.g., in the completed risk assessment, or Construction or ILS Permit. At least once a week, for inactive sites. More frequent inspections are required if necessary to maintain site safety. The Construction Safety Inspection Checklist is included as Appendix B.  Promptly correcting deficiencies found on their projects. 3.6 At locations other than NYULH LI and the RAC, Security and Loss Prevention are responsible for:  Inspecting projects daily using the Daily Security Site Inspection List.  Periodically reporting the results of daily inspections to RED+F Design and Construction, for incorporation into their inspection report.  On request, and where permitted by code (see Section 4.2), assigning their staff to conduct a fire watch, as applicable. 3.7 Department heads are responsible for:  Inspecting construction barriers within their departments as part of their daily leadership rounds, and reporting deficiencies to Facilities or Real Estate.  Ensuring their subordinates receive all training required by the Program, e.g., on Interim Evacuation Plans. 4.0 Criteria for implementing a fire watch 4.1 The Authorities Having Jurisdiction (e.g., in NYC, the FDNY; outside NYC, the fire department or fire marshal) shall be notified when a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system is out of service. 4.2 A fire watch is required unless the AHJ specifically indicates otherwise.  The area patrolled by each individual shall not exceed 50,000 square feet. Within NYC  During the first 4 hours of impairment, trained building staff (e.g., Security) may conduct the fire watch as long as the unprotected area does not exceed 50,000 square feet.  If the impairment exceeds 4 hours or the unprotected area exceeds 50,000 square feet, the fire watch must be conducted by individuals who have an FDNY Certificate of Fitness (C of F) for Fire Guard for Impairments Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 7 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 Outside NYC  For an impairment of any duration, staff shall implement an approved fire watch 4.3 Risk assessments for other common situations that could require a fire watch are summarized below. Each situation must be assessed for its specific risks.  Situation: Putting a shield over a single smoke detector in an occupied area for more than 4 hours to prevent false alarms from dust. The shield is removed once the dust producing activity is complete. Fire watch required? No. Rationale: Occupants and other active fire protection devices are present in the surrounding area.  Situation: In a building where the Facilities engineers receive notification of activated smoke detectors, placing smoke detectors offline (e.g., where personnel may generate dust in the affected area) to prevent notification to the local fire department during a scheduled event. (Devices are operational after hours.) Fire watch required? No. Rationale: Facilities engineers receive notification of activated smoke detectors and respond to investigate. Also, the fire alarm system pull stations and speaker/strobes remain active.  Situation: A scheduled shut down or drain down of the standpipe or sprinkler system or disabling of the fire alarm system. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: The standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system is not functional.  Situation: An unscheduled event, such as an unanticipated system failure or shutdown. E.g., shutting off a zone valve to the sprinkler system or disabling a fire alarm zone. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: The standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system is not functional.  Situation: A construction site that is neither fully sprinklered, nor has perimeter walls that are 1 hour fire rated from slab to slab. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: NFPA 241 requires that the perimeter of the construction site contains walls that are 1 hour fire rated unless the site is sprinklered in Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 8 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 accordance with NFPA 13. The NYC and NYS building and fire codes contain additional requirements. Note: A fire watch is acceptable for a short duration impairment, but is not a substitute for a construction site having an active sprinkler system or a perimeter fire rated partition. 5.0 Criteria for selecting and implementing other ILSMs 5.1 Routine operations and maintenance (O&M) work EH&S has conducted a risk assessment for routine in house O&M activities by Facilities’ employees (see Appendix C). Based on this assessment, Facilities has incorporated appropriate ILSMs into their Standard Safety Precautions for O&M work (see Section 10.0). There is no need for an additional ILS risk assessment and ILSMs for routine O&M work by Facilities’ employees. 5.2 Minor deficiencies As a rule, there is no need for an ILS risk assessment and ILSMs for minor building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies (e.g., burnt out exit lights, damaged doors or door hardware, missing or damaged ceiling tiles, small penetrations, illegible fire door labels, open junction boxes) that can be corrected within 60 days.  NYULH’s facilities are designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to confine a fire to the area where it starts, and to minimize the spread of smoke and fire.  Facilities has comprehensive building maintenance programs (BMPs) for all in patient facilities, and other buildings they operate. The BMPs incorporate regular, scheduled processes for inspecting, identifying, prioritizing, and correcting life safety code deficiencies. Critical or severe deficiencies receive the highest priority. The BMPs include: Written strategies to manage items covered by the programs. Documented schedules for the frequency of inspecting the items. Periodic monitoring with an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 9 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021  Real Estate schedules routine inspections for, and correction of life safety code deficiencies at locations they manage, none of which are in patient occupancies.  NYULH staff are well prepared to respond to fire incidents. All staff complete mandatory annual fire safety training. Staff participate in routine fire drills, per TJC requirements. Fire Response Team members participate in additional training. 5.3 TJC Survey Related Plan for Improvement (SPFI) Facilities or Real Estate conducts an ILSM Risk Assessment (for process, see Section 6 or 7) for any SPFI that cannot be immediately (i.e., within 60 days) corrected, and enters the documentation into the TJC website. 5.4 Other conditions PMs and managers evaluate the need for ILSMs (for process, see Section 6 or 7) whenever they identify conditions that could pose a threat to life safety. This includes:  When egress will be obstructed.  When a fire protection system will be impaired.  Whenever a Life Safety Code deficiency cannot be immediately (i.e., within 60 days) corrected.  During periods of construction and renovation. 6.0 Building maintenance: ILSM risk assessment process 6.1 When building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies are not minor and/or cannot be corrected immediately (i.e., within 60 days) and require a Time Limited Waiver (TLW) from the Centers for Medicare Services (CMS), a designated Facilities or Real Estate manager drafts an ILSM risk assessment.  The goal is efficient and effective mitigation of any increased risk.  The manager uses an Interim Life Safety Measures Assessment Tool (see Appendices D and E) or comparable form to document the assessment.  The risk assessment may include the rationale (e.g., existing mitigating features) for determining what, if any, ILSMs are needed. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 10 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.2 The manager works with the EH&S Fire Safety Program Manager or the NYULH LI Fire Safety Officer, or their designee to finalize the risk assessment. 6.3 As needed, the manager coordinates implementation of required ILSMs (e.g., training on life safety code deficiencies and/or alternate exits). 7.0 Construction/renovation: ILSM risk assessment process 7.1 During the planning of a construction or renovation project, the PM coordinates an ILS risk assessment. The goal is efficient and effective mitigation of the risk. 7.2 At NYULH LI main campus and the RAC, the PM uses the NYULH_LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan (Appendix E) to identify and document appropriate ILSMs.  The PM submits the document to Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance and Emergency Management for review and approval. 7.3 At other locations, the PM asks an EH&S Construction Safety Specialist (CSS) to conduct an ILS risk assessment. The CSS uses the ILSM Matrix (Appendix F) and professional judgment on a case by case basis, to identify appropriate ILSM and construction safety measures.  At the end of the process, the CSS issues the PM one or more of the following: A Construction Safety or Interim Life Safety Permit (a Permit). The permitting process is described in Section 8. A sample Permit is included as Appendix A. An Interim Life Safety Plan. An Interim Evacuation Plan.  Permit signatories The CSS creates a Permit and gives it to the PM for signature. The PM signs the Permit and obtains the following additional signatures, after which the CSS signs the Permit: o the contractor o the Program Director or Facilities’ Director o the divisional Vice President Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 11 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 8.0 Implementation and monitoring of ILSMs 8.1 The PM informs contractors of the Permit and ILSM requirements and pertinent Safety Policies (e.g., Construction Contractor Safety Requirements). 8.2 The PM coordinates implementation of the Permit and ILSM requirements (e.g. posting of signage, training on alternative exits, installation of temporary alarm system, provision of additional fire extinguishers, and informing affected departments). 8.3 During the project, the PM:  Inspects the project site regularly using the inspection checklist in Appendix B or a comparable form, and maintains documentation in the project file.  Works with contractors to ensure prompt correction of deficiencies identified during inspections.  Arranges for daily testing if there is a temporary fire alarm system. 9.0 ILS and Interim Evacuation Plans 9.1 When the following conditions arise at NYULH LI main campus or RAC, the PM prepares an ILS Plan and submits it for approval. At other locations, the PM or manager asks EH&S to prepare an ILS Plan:  The number, type, or severity of life safety code deficiencies places building occupants at noteworthy increased risk. E.g., when occupying new space in which there are numerous life safety code deficiencies on the “punch list”.  The planned work or an unscheduled event: Reduces the width of an egress corridor in a patient area to less than 4 feet or to the point where the corridor cannot accommodate common transport devices (e.g., stretchers or beds). Reduces the width of an egress corridor in a non patient area to less than 3 feet. Obstructs or temporarily renders inaccessible any part of the horizontal or vertical evacuation route(s) for an area, including the exit access, exit stair, and exit discharge. Impairs a fire protection system. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 12 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 9.2 The ILS Plan may include an Interim Evacuation Plan (i.e., a drawing showing temporary evacuation routes). 9.3 NYULH LI Engineering or an EH&S staff member with an FDNY C of F for Fire Safety Director shall review and accept each ILS Plan before it is finalized. 9.4 The PM or manager shall coordinate implementation of the requirements of the ILS Plan (e.g. informing affected departments and coordinating training on alternative evacuation plans). 10.0 Standard safety precautions for in house operations and maintenance (O & M) activities When small, routine O&M activities are undertaken by Facilities and/or Real Estate employees, the manager, foreman, and supervisor ensures that employees do the following: 10.1 Wear an employee ID badge above the waist with picture facing front at all times. 10.2 Do not disturb any suspect asbestos containing material. Ask the supervisor/ foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate testing and abatement (if needed). 10.3 If mold is observed, ask the supervisor/foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate an assessment and provide recommendations. 10.4 If a heat gun, torch, or grinder will be used to remove paint, ask the supervisor/foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate testing for lead containing paint. 10.5 Set up the work area so as to contain dust and debris. Use an enclosure, such as a room or control cube, or erect smoke tight barriers around the work area. 10.6 Do not block exits from the floor or work area. Maintain egress corridor width of 4 feet in a patient care area and 3 feet in any other area. 10.7 Do not block access to emergency equipment such as fire alarm pull stations, fire extinguishers, or emergency medical gas shutoff valves. 10.8 Run a HEPA filtered air cleaner in the work area if the work will generate dust. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 13 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 10.9 If the work produces flame, sparks or slag, obtain a daily Hot Work Permit from the supervisor/foreman/manager, implement the required protective measures, and have the permit readily accessible. 10.10 Remove all oxygen and flammable gas cylinders from the work area when not in use and at the end of each day. 10.11 Schedule the project to minimize the impact of noise and vibration. 10.12 Follow NYULH’s tobacco free workplace policy. 10.13 Remove flammable and combustible materials from the work area when the work is finished for the day. 10.14 Remove accumulated waste before leaving for the shift. Related Safety Policies 104: Tobacco Free Facilities 111: Fire Incident Protocol 115: Fire Alarm System Testing and Maintenance 120: Construction Safety Requirements 122: Fire Prevention 127: Fire Drills 131: Fire Alarm System Impairment 143: Hot Work Permit Facilities Policy T.01: Penetrations in Smoke/Fire Walls/Slabs and Repair Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Appendix B Construction Safety Inspection Checklist Appendix C ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Appendix D ILSM Assessment Tool Appendix E NYULH LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan Appendix F ILSM Matrix Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 2/2020 Reviewed by Z. Abatzis, Environmental Health and Safety M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B, Safety Officer B. Farrell, Real Estate Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 14 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management T. Fascianella, NYU LOH, Safety Officer S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety D. Resnick, RED+F Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH, Engineering E. Tautel, IT Cable Management R. Zick, Security NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision Date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island February 2020 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 4.2 Clarifies requirements outside of NYC 5.1, 5.2 Incorporates information previously in Section 6 7.3 Incorporates information on permit signatories, previously in Section 8 8.0 Changes name from “Process for the Construction Safety/ILS Permitting” to “Implementation and Monitoring of ILSMs” Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital, Appendix E New June 2019 2.1, 2.2, 2.14 New 3.2 Adds Facilities responsibility for responding to TJC survey findings, and for ILS risk assessments for non routine maintenance 3.5 Adds responsibility for daily inspections of construction barriers 4.0 Adds fire watch requirements for areas outside of NYC 5.1 New Section 6 New Appendices Reorders Appendices Adds Appendix C: ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 15 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 March 2018 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 5.2 Clarifies criteria for selecting and implementing other ILSMs 7.0 Clarifies Interim Life Safety and Interim Evacuation Plan 8.9 Clarifies need for daily hot work permit Appendix C Adds appendix Interim Life Safety Matrix June 2017 3.2 Clarifies that RED+F Design and Construction reports inspection data to the Construction Safety Committee 3.4 Clarifies that Security reports inspection data to RED+F Design and Construction. 4.0 Adds section, to address, more clearly, TJC requirement for criteria 4.2 Added last example February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone Removes reference to Lutheran Medical Center’s policy 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Review by Adds review by EOC Committees of HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers May 2016 2.2 Clarifies when Facilities notifies the FDNY impairment unit. 3.1 Clarifies when a fire watch and a certified Fire Guard are required. February 2016 Policy & General Information References Lutheran’s ILS program. 4.3 Adds information regarding signatories to the ILS Permit Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Appendix A Changes signature block in accordance with Section 4.3 Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 NYU Langone Health Interim Life Safety (ILS) PermitReason for Permit: Construction Project Location: Project Coordinator: Project Start Date: Contractor Performing Work: Project Completion: Supervisor’s Name: Telephone: Brief description of project: Demolition, abatement and renovation of existing space. The contractor shall comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, and NYULH Safety Policies. The Project Manager will review this permit with the contractor to ensure that the following construction safety and interim life safety measures are implemented on this project and will conduct daily hazard surveillance inspections: • The contractor shall comply with all requirements set forth in the site specific ICRA permit issued for this project. • The project shall be planned and scheduled to minimize the impact of noise and vibration for patients and staff. • Project Manager shall coordinate removal of all NYULH supplies and equipment (e.g. chemicals, compressed gas cylinders, appliances, etc.) from the project space prior to the start of work. • Contractor shall not disturb asbestos containing materials. Abatement must be coordinated through Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). • All construction personnel shall wear NYULH Security I.D. badges at all times. • All means of egress shall be kept unobstructed at all times. Exits shall be inspected daily. Stairwell doors shall not be propped or otherwise kept open. Exit signs with directional arrows shall be installed within the work area to aid in worker evacuation. The contractor shall not store any tools, materials or equipment outside the work area (e.g. in corridors, stairwells, etc.). • A mounted, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher with tag showing annual and monthly inspection record, is required for every 2,500 square feet of space. The distance between any 2 fire extinguishers shall not exceed 75 feet. A 10lb. ABC dry chemical extinguisher must also be immediately available by hot work or wherever flammable liquids or compressed gas cylinders are stored. • Hot work to be performed requires issuance of a daily NYULH Hot Work Permit. Contractor shall comply with all provisions of OSHA 1926 subpart J, the NYC Fire Code (including any storage and usage permit requirements) / Or Local Fire Code, and NYULH Safety Policy 143 (Hot Work). Compressed gas cylinders shall be removed from the job site at the end of each work day. All welding requires the use of an operable smoke eater at the point of the welding. A dedicated fire guard shall be in place at all times during hot work. Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 • The project site shall be maintained under 0.02” of negative pressure at all times with air exhausted out of the building. • The width of the corridor shall not be reduced to less than 4 feet nor can any established means of egress be changed or eliminated unless specifically authorized by NYULH’s Fire Safety Director along with issuance of Interim Life Safety and Interim Evacuation Plans. • Temporary hard and soft construction partitions shall be smoke tight. Hard partitions shall be constructed of non flammable material (drywall). Soft (plastic) partitions shall be fire retardant sheeting. • All construction materials introduced into this site by the contractor (e.g. plywood, plastic sheeting, tarps, etc.) shall be fire retardant or non combustible. Inspect daily to verify that flammable and combustible load is maintained at the lowest level feasible. • Shutdown of all existing utilities in the construction area (e.g. electric, HVAC, plumbing, etc.) shall be coordinated with NYULH Facilities Operations. A temporary lighting and power system shall be installed by a licensed electrical contractor. If any contractors require tie in of a temporary electrical panel, this work shall be done by NYULH Facilities Operations. No work shall be performed on live systems unless pre planned, specifically authorized by EH&S and Facilities Operations, and conducted in accordance with all NFPA 70e requirements. Live electrical panels shall be properly covered and locked at all times. All power tools and equipment shall be GFCI protected. • Contractor shall arrange for shutdown of the fire alarm, detection and/or suppression systems if the possibility of an accidental activation exists due to planned work activities (see NYU LH Safety Policy 145). Sprinkler heads and piping and fire alarm speaker/strobes, pull stations and their associated wiring, shall be protected against physical damage. Any damage caused to these systems shall be immediately reported to both NYULH Facilities Operations and the Project Manager. • The Project Manager shall notify EH&S a) in advance of work which will result in an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system or b) immediately of an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system resulting from an unscheduled event, arrange for implementation of a fire watch and ensure that necessary notifications are made to Facilities and Security. • NYULH Security Department shall be given advanced notice of all work to be performed after hours, work that needs to be performed in sensitive, controlled or restricted areas, and any work that may adversely affect patients, staff or the public. • All work on the building’s fire suppression systems shall be performed by a licensed plumber or fire suppression contractor in accordance with the NYC Building Code and/or local laws. • The PM shall notify the contractor that smoking is completely prohibited on campus, indoors and out. Contractor shall post an adequate number of “No Smoking” signs to comply with NYC Fire Code Section 1401.1, or local fire code. PM shall inspect daily for cigarette butts and follow up on problems. • Ground penetrating radar shall be used to ensure no striking of in slab utilities. Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 • Penetrations in floors, walls and ceilings, uncovered or created during the course of the project, must be fire stopped immediately utilizing NYULH Facilities Operations approved Hilti brand fire stopping products. • Chemicals and products used are to be low or no VOC unless specifically approved by the EH&S. Flammable or combustible liquids, chemicals and products shall be stored in an approved fire safety cabinet. Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) for all products shall be readily available on site. • Debris containers shall be wiped down and capped with plastic prior to leaving the job site. Debris removal and material deliveries to the site shall be made via the service elevators at times when minimal interaction with patients and staff is expected. • Construction personnel shall wear hard hats and use other personal protective equipment when the work calls for same. • Construction personnel shall use the right size and type ladder for the work they are performing. A frame ladders shall not be used in the closed position. Due to the potential electrical hazard metal ladders pose, only fiberglass or wood ladders shall be used. Ladders shall be inspected daily before use. Damaged ladders shall be thrown out. Workers shall not stand on the top 2 rungs of, stand backwards on or straddle, any ladder. Where the work does not allow 3 points of contact to be maintained on the ladder, another more stable work platform (e.g. bakers scaffold) shall be used. • All construction personnel shall be protected against falls from height greater than 6 feet at all times utilizing the hierarchy of controls. Use of a fall arrest system is a last resort and shall only be implemented where no other practical means (e.g. guardrail, aerial lift, or scaffold) exists. A controlled access zone shall be established wherever the potential for falling persons, tools or materials exists. Workers at height shall tether their tools. • The contractor shall properly handle, and dispose of, hazardous waste on site in accordance with the NYULH Hazardous Waste from Contractors policy 108a. Typical waste encountered or created during the demolition project includes: Fluorescent bulbs (mercury) Lighting ballasts (PCBs) Smoke detectors (radioactive isotopes) Aerosol cans Signatory Name Signature Date Project Manager Contractor’s competent person Program Director Vice President EH&S Safety Policy 145, Appendix B Safety Policy 145, Appendix B Safety Policy 145, Appendix C ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work By Facilities Maintenance Employees Revised: January 6, 2020 Interim Life Safety Measure (ILSM) Comment Evacuate the building, or notify the fire department and implement a fire watch. Not required: routine work typically doesn’t meet requirements for implementing a fire watch (refer to NYULH ILS Program Section 4.0) or evacuation. Post signs identifying alternate exits. Not required: scale and duration of work typically doesn’t affect existing exits. Inspect exits in affected areas on a daily basis. Not required: scale and duration of work typically doesn’t affect existing exits. Provide temporary but equivalent fire alarm and detection systems for use when a fire system is impaired. Not required: routine work does not impair existing fire alarm and detection monitor systems. Provide additional fire fighting equipment. Required for hot work, as per NYULH Hot Work program. Use temporary construction partitions that are smoke tight and made of noncombustible or limited combustible material that will not contribute to the development or spread of fire. Not required: scale and duration of work typically doesn’t require construction partitions and/or does not increase the risk of fire. Increase surveillance of buildings, grounds, and equipment, giving special attention to construction areas and storage, excavation, and field offices. Not required: scale and duration of work typically doesn’t impact extended areas to require increased surveillance. Enforce storage, housekeeping, and debris removal practices that reduce the building’s flammable and combustible fire load to the lowest feasible level. Included in SOPs and standard safety practices. Provide additional training to those who work in the hospital on the use of fire fighting equipment. Not required: routine work is not expected to increase the risk of fire to necessitate additional training. All NYULH employees complete annual Emergency Management and Workplace Safety Training, which includes training on the use of firefighting equipment. Conduct one additional fire drill per shift per quarter. Not required: scale and duration of work does not necessitate additional drills. Inspect and test temporary systems monthly, and document the completion dates of the tests. Not required: routine work does not impair existing systems. Provide education to promote awareness of building deficiencies, construction hazards, and temporary measures implemented to maintain fire safety. Not required: routine work is not expected to create building deficiencies, construction hazards or requirements for temporary fire safety measures. All NYULH employees complete annual Emergency Management and Workplace Safety Training, which includes training on the use of firefighting equipment. Train those who work in the hospital to compensate for impaired structural or compartmental fire safety features. Not required: routine work is not expected to impair structural or compartmental fire safety features. Where work may create penetrations, additional measures are required, as per the Above Ceiling and Barrier Integrity Permit. Implement other appropriate interim life safety measures (ILSMs). SOPs for routine work include processes for maintaining life safety and implementing adequate ILSMs to address life safety risks (e.g., related to egress, hot work, compressed gases) that may arise during work. Comment: Routine work performed by Facilities maintenance employees (e.g., plumbing, electrical, painting) is typically small scale, involving minimal disturbance of fire safety features. When maintenance employees breach fire barriers, e.g., by penetrating walls or removing doors, they install temporary barriers. Based on the scale and duration of routine maintenance work, the standard safety precautions that are implemented as per the ILS Program, and the specific measures included in routine task SOPs, existing measures are typically sufficient and additional ILSM are not required for routine work. Safety Policy 145, Appendix D ILSM Risk Assessment Tool 145 ILS 21W Deficiency ID Number Building Location Potential and/or Identified Deficient Issues Impact Evaluation Yes / No / NA Measures Implemented 1. Will all required exits be free and unobstructed? E.g., no construction materials, equipment, or debris block free use of all exits adjacent to the construction site or impacted by the project. All existing exit signs will remain in place and operational. 2. Will any exterior access points to the building be blocked? E.g., access to emergency departments, entrances, and exit discharges will be maintained free of obstruction, storage, or other impediments. 3. Will any fire alarm systems & suppression systems be compromised and/or altered? Any temporary system must be tested monthly. A fire watch & fire dept. notification must be implemented when fire systems are compromised for more than 4 hours in a 24 hour period. 4. Will there be a need to erect construction partitions that are smoke tight, fire resistant, non combustible, slab to slab, and wall to wall? 5. Will any additional fire extinguishers and equipment be necessary & provided on site? Equipment must be functional and tests and inspections are up to date. 6. Will the Smoking prohibition need to be communicated, monitored and enforced? 7. Will construction storage need to be minimized and housekeeping & debris removal policies communicated, monitored and enforced? 8. Will additional fire drills be necessary for staff in affected areas and/or within construction area (contractor staff)? 9. Will surveillance of the area be necessary? 10. Will any additional training of staff and/or contractors be necessary to compensate for impaired structural or compartmental features of fire safety? 11. Will facility wide safety education programs need to be communicated to promote awareness of fire safety building deficiencies, construction hazards, and ILSM? 12. List any other Life Safety Code deficiency / concerns identified: 13. List any other Life Safety Code deficiency / concerns identified: 14. List any other Life Safety Code deficiency / concerns identified: Additional Comments: On [insert date] [insert name] [insert department] notified [insert name] [insert department] that staff who work in the area must [insert what they must do] whenever there is a fire alarm. ___________________________ ___________________________ Prepared by Print Name Date ___________________________ Safety Policy 145, Appendix E NYULH LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan Description of ILSM Trigger Applicable? ILSM Precaution # List all that apply Yes No Will any hot work be performed? (Welding, cutting, brazing, soldering, or other activities utilizing an open Implement hot work permit or #2, 6, 9, 15, 7 if combustibles within 35' Will any egress pathways or exists be altered or obstructed? 3, 4, 13 Will access to emergency services be restricted or rerouted, or will access for emergency responders (police, fire dept., EMS) be impaired or restricted? 3, 4, 13 Will any fire detection or alarm system be out of service or impaired > 4 hrs.? All precautions, except 3 and 7 Will any part of the fire suppression or sprinkler system be out of service or impaired > 10 hours? Will any smoke/fire walls, doors, barrier or assemblies be compromised? 4, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16 Will the fire safety of personnel in adjacent areas be affected? 4, 8, 9, 10, 13, 15 Will it be necessary to install temporary construction partitions? 3, 4, 8, 9, 14, 15 Will the project result in the accumulation of debris and/or materials and increase the flammable or combustible load in the work area? 4, 8, 9, 10, 13, 15 Will the project activity present any other safety related hazards? If so, specify and select applicable precautions. Additional comments related to the required measures:________________________ Submitted by Print Name & Signed initials Title Date Acknowledge with initial signature Approved by: □Safety □Engineering & Facilities Maintenance □Hospital Police □Other (specify): Description of Project, Noted Deficiency or SOC: Location: Project Manager: Instructions: Determine whether any of the “ILSM Triggers” listed below apply to the project, life safety deficiency at hand. Determine if noted ILSM precautions # apply; delete any that do not apply; add others as applicable. ILSM PRECAUTIONS 1. Notify fire department and other emergency response group2. Initiate fire watch 3. Post signage identifying alternate exit(s) to all affected 4. Perform daily inspections of exits and affected areas 5. Provide temporary, but equivalent, fire protection systems 6. Provide additional fire extinguishers/fire fighting equipment7. Use temporary construction partitions as control measure “smoke Tight or non/limited combustible material 8. Increase surveillance of buildings, grounds and equipment giving special attention to construction areas and storage, excavation, and field offices, 9. Enforce storage, housekeeping, and debris removal practicesthat reduce the building’s flammable and combustible fire loto the lowest feasible level, 10. Provide additional training of staff working on the use of firextinguishers and/or other fire fighting equipment, 11. Conduct one additional fire drill per shift per quarter, 12. Conduct monthly tests and inspections of temporary system13. Conduct education to promote awareness of building deficiencies, construction hazards, and temporary measures implemented to maintain fire safety, 14. Train staff assigned to compensate for impaired structural ocompartmental fire safety features 15. Enforce No Smoking policy inside any and all buildings andesignated No Smoking outdoor areas, 16. Complete required repairs and advise Engineering Dept. to check completed work for proper protection including all penetrations Safety Policy 145, Appendix F Interim Life Safety Measures Matrix Date: Completed by: Project: Comments: Impairment/Deficiency Measures to be implemented Interim life safety permit Interim life safety plan / evacuation plan Notify fire department Fire watch Alternate exit signage Inspect exits daily Occupancy reduced or restricted Install rated partition/door Install smoke tight partition Seal penetrations with fire resistive materials Additional fire alarm/detection/suppression Additional fire fighting equipment Increased hazard surveillance Use flame retardant/non combustible materials Limit/control/restrict flammables/combustibles Prohibit staged/stored materials in occupied areas Limit materials stored in construction area Additional fire drill(s) Test temporary equipment/systems monthly Staff Notification Staff Training Other Egress Reduce width of healthcare facility corridors to less than 4'; non healthcare corridor to less than 3' less Blocking/rerouting of an egress corridor, exit, exit discharge, etc. Absence of two remote exits Elimination of required exit(s) Excessive travel distance or common path of travel to an approved exit Creation or increase of dead end corridor(s) Obstruction of exit signage Other Fire/life safety Removal/impairment of a rated fire/smoke barrier or door Impairment of fire alarm system (e.g. smoke/heat detectors, panel, etc.) Impairment of standpipe Impairment of fire pump Safety Policy 145, Appendix F Interim Life Safety Measures Matrix Impairment/Deficiency Interim life safety permit Interim life safety plan / evacuation plan Notify fire department Fire watch Alternate exit signage Inspect exits daily Occupancy reduced or restricted Install rated partition/door Install smoke tight partition Seal penetrations with fire resistive materials Additional fire alarm/detection/suppression Additional fire fighting equipment Increased hazard surveillance Use flame retardant/non combustible materials Limit/control/restrict flammables/combustibles Prohibit staged/stored materials in occupied areas Limit materials stored in construction area Additional fire drill(s) Test temporary equipment/systems monthly Staff Notification Staff Training Other Impairment of sprinkler system Simultaneous impairment of more than one fire protection system Impairment of fire protection system to last more than 8 hours Other Construction Type New Building Existing building rehabilitation by type (per NFPA 101, chapter 43) Repair Renovation Modification Reconstruction Change of use/occupancy Addition Penetrations in construction partition walls; fire/smoke Opening between drop ceiling and underside of slab to occupied space Staging/storage of tools, material, equipment and debris Combustible/flammable materials/products in construction area Hot work operations Removal of fireproofing Other


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 1 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE • To prevent accidents resulting from unsafe operation of powered industrial trucks (PITs). • To comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standard for Powered Industrial Trucks, 29 CFR 1910.178. Table of Contents Section Title Page 1.0 Application ......................................................................................................... 2 2.0 Responsibilities .................................................................................................. 2 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety ............................................................ 2 3.2 Department/division heads....................................................................... 3 3.3 PIT program coordinators ........................................................................ 3 3.4 Supervisors and foremen.......................................................................... 3 3.5 Operators .................................................................................................. 4 3.0 Definitions.......................................................................................................... 4 4.0 Equipment selection ........................................................................................... 4 5.0 Training and certification ................................................................................... 5 6.0 Pre operational inspection ................................................................................. 6 7.0 Standard operating procedures ........................................................................... 6 7.1 General ..................................................................................................... 6 7.2 Fuel .......................................................................................................... 7 7.3 Batteries ................................................................................................... 8 7.4 Loading .................................................................................................... 8 7.5 Travelling ................................................................................................. 8 7.6 Interaction with trucks ............................................................................. 9 7.7 Alteration, maintenance and repair .......................................................... 9 7.8 Lighting .................................................................................................... 9 7.9 Exhaust emissions .................................................................................... 9 8.0 Recordkeeping .................................................................................................. 10 9.0 Annual Evaluation ............................................................................................ 10 Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 2 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All NYULH owned and leased facilities. − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH. RED+F Construction is responsible for ensuring construction contractors implement this policy. The other departments and divisions impacted by the program, and the PITs they own and/or operate are: Location Department PITs Main campus Division of Comparative Medicine (DCM 2 semi electric pallet trucks (Xilin CBD10A II) Environmental Services 1 electric lift truck 1 motorized truck (Americart AC2544) Materials Management 1 electric pallet jack (Crown WP3035 45) 2 powered tank movers NYU Langone Health Brooklyn (NYULH B) Materials Management 2 electric power jacks (Crown WP2345 45) NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Logistics, Inventory and Distribution Hyster electric lift trucks. 4 model W40Z 4 (loading dock) 7 model W40Z (warehouse) 1 model B60ZAC (warehouse) 1 model J30XNT (warehouse) NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital (NYULOH) None 2.0 Responsibilities 2.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for: Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 3 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021  Developing the Program and updating it as needed.  Training PIT program coordinators on the requirements of the Program.  Evaluating operating environments to determine if they are hazardous.  Approving PITs for use in hazardous environments.  Providing technical support.  Conducting annual audits to evaluate the effectiveness of the Program. 2.2 Department/division heads are responsible for compliance with the Program within their departments/divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Reporting all PITs to EH&S.  Designating a manager, supervisor, or foreman as their PIT program coordinator.  Ensuring that contractors comply with this policy. 2.3 PIT program coordinators are responsible for implementing the Program within the department/division. This includes:  Obtaining approval from EH&S for any PIT to be used in a potentially hazardous location.  Ensuring PIT operators, including supervisors and forepersons assigned to oversee PIT use, are trained and certified.  Maintaining training, certification, and pre operational inspection records for a minimum of three years.  Ensuring that any equipment determined to be unsafe is put out of operation until repaired.  Conducting periodic inspections to verify that all requirements of this policy are followed. 2.4 Supervisors and forepersons are responsible for:  Ensuring operators have received required training and are evaluated and certified prior to operating PITs.  Ensuring that only individuals who have been trained and certified operate PITs.  Ensuring operators are evaluated and certified at least once every 3 years.  Ensuring daily checklists are completed.  Supervising the use of PITs on a day to day basis. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 4 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021  Implementing corrective actions, including refresher training, in the event that an operator violates safe operating procedures or is involved in an accident or a near miss incident. 2.5 Operators are responsible for:  Completing initial training prior to operating a PIT.  Completing refresher training as needed.  Conducting a pre operational inspection prior to using a PIT, and completing the daily checklist.  Operating equipment safely and in accordance with the manufacturer’s operating instructions.  Reporting any defects or malfunctions to the supervisor or foreman immediately, and discontinuing use if the defect impairs the safe operation or use of the PIT. 3.0 Definitions Operator means an individual who is competent to operate a PIT safely, as demonstrated by the successful completion of training and current certification. PIT means a mobile, power driven vehicle, such as a fork lift truck, platform lift truck, or motorized hand truck. PIT’s are used primarily to move materials. They can also be used to raise, lower, or remove large objects or a number of smaller objects on pallets or in boxes, crates, or other containers. PITs can either be ridden by the operator or controlled by a walking operator. PIT program coordinator means a person who has the knowledge, training and experience needed to manage the PIT program within a department/division, and to ensure proper training and performance evaluation of PIT operators. 4.0 Equipment selection 4.1 Only PITs approved for hazardous locations shall be used in these areas. 4.2 Any approved PIT may be used in a non hazardous location. 4.3 High lift rider trucks shall be fitted with an overhead guard. 4.4 Fork trucks shall have a vertical load backrest extension, operable flashing lights, and audible travel alarms. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 5 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 5.0 Training and certification 5.1 EH&S coordinates training for PIT program coordinators on the requirements of the Program. 5.2 PIT program coordinators organize training, evaluation, and certification of operators and supervisors.  Trainees shall be supervised at all times during the training and evaluation. 5.3 Operator training  Training shall be specific to the type of PIT used.  Training shall consist of a combination of formal instruction and practical training and shall comply with OSHA requirements.  A sample training curriculum is included as Appendix A. 5.4 Operator evaluation  The PIT program coordinator shall ensure that each prospective operator passes a performance driving test. The operator shall locate and explain all operational controls, and demonstrate competency in operating the PIT. The operator’s competency shall be documented. A sample evaluation form is included as Appendix B.  The PIT program coordinator shall work with supervisors/forepersons to ensure each operator's performance is re evaluated at least once every three years. 5.5 Certification  The PIT program coordinator shall ensure that supervisors/forepersons are evaluated and certified, e.g., by the equipment vendor.  The supervisor/foreperson shall certify that each operator has received appropriate training and has successfully demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to safely operate the specific PIT(s) to which they have been assigned.  The PIT program coordinator shall maintain written certification for all operators.  The certification shall include the name of the operator, the date of the training, the date of the evaluation, and the name of the person performing the training and evaluation. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 6 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021  The certification shall be valid up to three years, as long as safe operating techniques are met. 5.6 Refresher training in relevant topics shall be provided to the operator when:  The operator has been observed to operate the PIT in an unsafe manner.  The operator has been involved in an accident or near miss incident.  The operator has received an evaluation that reveals that the operator is not competent or operating the PIT safely.  The operator is assigned to drive a different type of PIT.  A condition in the workplace changes in a manner that could affect safe operation of the PIT. 6.0 Pre operational inspection The operator shall examine the PIT before use for conditions that may adversely affect its operation, and verify that it is safe to operate.  A sample checklist for Internal Combustion Engine Industrial Truck Gas/LPG/Diesel Truck is included as Appendix C.  A sample checklist for Electric Industrial Truck is included as Appendix D.  A sample checklist for Walking Pallet Truck is included as Appendix E. 7.0 Standard operating procedures 7.1 General  Where possible, PITs shall be electric powered. Where this is not feasible, an assessment of the hazards posed by the alternatively powered equipment must be done and the proper protections implemented.  PITs shall only be operated on surfaces capable of handling the weight.  Unauthorized personnel shall not be allowed to ride on PITs.  Operators of seated PITs shall wear seat belts.  Arms or legs shall not be placed between the uprights of the mast or outside the running lines of the PIT.  No person shall be allowed to stand or pass under the elevated portion of any PIT, whether loaded or empty.  There shall be sufficient headroom under overhead installations.  Whenever a PIT is equipped with a lifting carriage or forks for lifting, the following precautions shall be taken: Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 7 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 The platform shall be securely attached to the lifting carriage and/or forks. Means shall be provided whereby personnel on the platform can shut off power to the PIT. Protection from falling objects shall be provided.  Whenever a PIT is left unattended: It shall not obstruct fire aisles, access to stairways, or fire safety equipment. The load engaging means shall be lowered. The controls shall be neutralized. The power shall be shut off. The keys will be removed and secured from unauthorized access. The brakes shall be set. The wheels shall be blocked if the PIT is parked on an incline. 7.2 Fuel Where fueled powered PITs have been approved for use, the following requirements must be met.  Liquid fuels such as gasoline and diesel fuel shall be stored and handled in accordance with local fire code and NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code.  Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) shall be stored and handled in accordance with local fire code and NFPA 58, Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases.  LPG and diesel powered PITS shall be refueled outdoors and kept outdoors when not in use.  In order to avoid spills, only approved close circuit systems shall be used when filling fuel tanks.  Fuel and oil spills shall be cleaned up immediately by SPCC trained employee(s) using proper spill cleanup materials and procedures. Employees shall contact EH&S for disposal of spill cleanup material.  No PIT shall be operated with a leak in the fuel system until the leak has been corrected.  Open flames shall not be used for checking level of fuel in tanks or level of electrolytes in storage batteries. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 8 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 7.3 Batteries  A location shall be designated for charging batteries. If a battery contains acid, an emergency eyewash shall be immediately adjacent.  PITs shall be properly positioned and the brake applied before attempting to change or charge batteries.  Water shall not be poured into acid; acid may be added to water.  Reinstalled batteries shall be properly positioned and secured in the PIT.  The battery (or compartment) cover(s) shall be open to dissipate heat. Vent caps shall function properly.  Tools and other metallic objects shall be kept away from the top of uncovered batteries. 7.4 Loading  Only stable or safely arranged loads shall be handled. Caution shall be exercised when handling loads that cannot be centered.  Only loads below the rated capacity of the PIT shall be handled.  PITs equipped with attachments shall be operated as partially loaded PITs when not handling a load.  A load engaging means shall be placed under the load as far as possible. The mast shall be carefully tilted backward to stabilize the load.  Extreme care shall be used when tilting the load forward or backward, particularly when high tiering. 7.5 Travelling  Stunt driving and horseplay is prohibited.  PITs shall not be driven up to anyone standing in front of a bench or other fixed object.  The operator shall slow down and sound the horn at cross aisles and other locations where vision is obstructed.  If the load obstructs forward view, the operator shall travel with the load trailing.  The operator shall look in the direction of, and keep a clear view of the path of travel.  Grades shall be ascended and descended slowly. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 9 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021  When ascending or descending grades in excess of 10 percent, loaded PITs shall be driven with the load upgrade.  On all grades the load and load engaging means shall be tilted back if applicable, and raised only as far as necessary to clear the road surface.  Under all travel conditions the PIT shall be operated at a speed that permits it to be brought to a stop in a safe manner.  The operator shall slow down for wet and slippery floors.  Running over loose objects on the roadway surface shall be avoided.  Dockboards and bridgeplates shall be properly secured before they are driven over. They shall be driven over carefully and slowly and their rated capacity never exceeded.  Elevators shall be approached slowly and entered squarely after the elevator is properly leveled. Once on the elevator, the controls shall be neutralized, power shut off, and the brakes set. Motorized hand trucks shall enter the elevator or other confined areas with load end forward.  While negotiating turns, speed shall be reduced to a safe level and the hand steering wheel shall be turned in a smooth sweeping motion. 7.6 Interaction with trucks  The brakes of highway trucks shall be set and wheel chocks placed under the rear wheels to prevent the trucks from rolling when they are boarded by PITs.  Fixed jacks shall be used to support a semi trailer that is not coupled to a tractor, to prevent up ending during the loading and unloading. 7.7 Alteration, maintenance and repair  PITs shall be kept in clean condition, free of lint, excess oil, and grease.  If a PIT is found to be in need of repair, defective, or in any way unsafe, it shall be taken out of service until it has been restored to safe operating condition. All repairs to PITs shall be made by authorized personnel only. Repairs shall not be made in hazardous locations. Repairs to the fuel or ignition systems that involve fire hazards shall be conducted only in locations designated for such repairs. The battery shall be disconnected before repairs are made to the electrical system. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 10 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 7.8 Lighting: If lighting in the operating area is less than 2 lumens per square foot auxiliary directional lighting shall be provided.  EH&S can evaluate lighting levels 7.9 Exhaust emissions: If a PIT creates carbon monoxide gas, levels in the operating environment shall not exceed 50 parts per million.  EH&S can evaluate carbon monoxide levels. 8.0 Recordkeeping The PIT program coordinator shall maintain the certification of training records for each operator, and daily checklists, for a minimum of three years. 9.0 Annual evaluation EH&S shall conduct an annual evaluation of the program as part of the Annual Evaluation of the Environmental Safety Management Plan. Appendix A Sample Training Curriculum Appendix B Sample PIT Operator Evaluation Form Appendix C Sample Operator’s Daily Checklist: Gas/LPG/Diesel Truck Appendix D Sample Operator’s Daily Checklist: Electric Industrial Truck Appendix E Sample Operator’s Daily Checklist: Walking Pallet Truck Issue date 03/2021 Replaces 11/2019 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management R. Cohen, Facilities Management N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer A. John, Environmental Services R. Kraft, NYULH LI, Supply Chain Management L. Lu, Environmental Health and Safety M. Raymond, DCM A. Roberson, Supply Chain Management A. Tontodonato, NYULH B Supply Chain Management A. Torres, NYULH B Supply Chain Management NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 149 Policy: Powered Industrial Truck (PIT) Program Page 11 of 11 Revised: March 26, 2021 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island October 2019 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references Incorporates NYULH LI and NYU Long Island School of Medicine Adds PITs for Environmental Services and NYULH LI Reviewed by Adds review by NYULH B Supply Chain Management and by NYULH LI February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Clarifies definition of a PIT 2.0 Defines NYU Langone Updates list of department owned PITs Reviewed by Adds reviewers for Lutheran Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Appendix B Adds Sample PIT Operator Evaluation and Certification Form Appendix E Adds Sample Daily Operator’s Checklist: Walking Pallet Truck Safety Policy 149, Appendix A Sample Training Curriculum Reviewed: October 8, 2019 1. Introduction a. Overview of the program b. Goal of the program: to provide a training program based on the trainee's prior knowledge, the types of PITs used in the workplace, and the hazards of the workplace. c. Course shall utilize video, group discussion and hands on practice. Each operator shall obtain the knowledge and skills needed to do their job correctly and safely. 2. Types, features, and physics a. Familiarize each operator with the basic types and functions of PITs. b. Develop an understanding of the information shown on a data plate. c. Understand the critical truck measurements that affect safety. d. Understand the forces that cause tip overs and the truck design considerations and safety ratings that help prevent them, including the "stability triangle." 3. Inspecting the PIT a. Understand the purpose and importance of pre operational checkouts. b. Provide a basic understanding of areas covered during a pre operational checkout. c. Familiarize each operator with a checklist for pre operational checkouts, and what to do if a problem is discovered. 4. Driving the PIT a. Understand the elements of safe movement of a PIT. b. Understand the differences between an automobile and a PIT. c. Recognize the safety hazards associated with operating a PIT. 5. Load handling a. Understand the elements of load lifting safety. b. Understand the safe operating procedures for raising and lowering loads in aisles. 6. LPG for lift trucks a. Discuss LPG and its properties. b. Understand the elements and procedures of safely refueling internal combustion PITs. c. Describe tank components: service valve, surge valve, relief valve, etc. d. Discuss related safety issues. 7. Battery and charging a. Understand the elements and procedures of safely changing and charging batteries. b. Discuss filling procedures and maintenance. c. Discuss related safety issues. 8. Safety concerns a. Review/reinforce potential of serious injury. b. Review/reinforce safety procedures in your facility. 9. Specific PIT and workplace training/hands on a. Review features of specific PIT's to be operated. b. Review operating procedures of specific PIT's to be operated. c. Review safety concerns of specific PIT's to be operated. d. Review workplace conditions and safety concerns of areas where PIT's shall be operated. e. Learn/practice actual operation of specific PIT's to be operated and appropriate workplace conditions where PIT's shall be operated. f. Demonstrate proficiency performing the PIT operator duties specific to the trainee's position and workplace conditions. 10. Certification of completion of the course Safety Policy 149, Appendix B Sample PIT Operator Evaluation Form Reviewed: October 8, 2019 Date: Department: Operator Name: Evaluator Name: PIT Make/Model: Each PIT Operator is required to be evaluated by a competent person prior to initial use of the PIT and at least once every three years thereafter. If the evaluator believes the operator’s skills are inadequate, additional training may be required. This evaluation is valid only for the PIT listed above. Pre operation of PIT YES NO N/A 1 Did the operator complete a pre use inspection? 2 Did the operator conduct a visual inspection of the work area? 3 Did the operator conduct a visual inspection of the load? 4 Did the operator adjust the forks to the proper distance for the load? 5 Did the operator determine the weight of the load prior to the lift? 6 Did the operator inspect the floor of the trailer? 7 Are the trailer brakes locked and wheels chocked? 8 Did the operator inspect the dock boards/bridge plates? 9 Did the operator use the seat belt? Operation of PIT YES NO N/A 1 Did the operator show familiarity with the PIT controls? 2 Did the operator approach the load at a safe speed? 3 Did the operator strike anything as he/she attempted to position the forks? 4 Are the forks under the entire load? 5 Is the load properly balanced? 6 Did the operator raise and tilt the load properly? 7 Did the operator lower the load to 6 inches from the ground prior to traveling? 8 Did the operator travel with the load at a safe speed, under control, and within the designated aisle? 9 Did the operator travel in reverse when his/her vision was obstructed? 10 Did the operator yield to pedestrians? 11 Did the operator slow down and use horn at intersections? 12 Did the operator properly turn the corner(s) and was aware of the rear end swing? 13 Did the operator drive up and down the ramp or other incline properly? 14 Did the operator look behind when backing up? 15 Did the operator stop the PIT in a smooth manner? 16 Did the operator lower the load and place it in the proper location? Post operation of PIT YES NO N/A 1 Did the operator come to a complete stop before turning off the PIT? 2 Did the operator place the forks flat on the floor when parking? 3 Did the operator place the controls in neutral when parking the PIT? 4 Did the operator set the parking brake when parking the PIT? 5 Did the operator close the valve of the propane cylinder? The operator demonstrated competency in operating the PIT. Yes No The operator has been evaluated and approved to use the PIT. Approved Not approved If No and Not approved, retraining is scheduled for: ________ /________ /________ Operator’s signature: Date: Evaluator’s signature: Date: Safety Policy 149, Appendix C Sample Operator's Daily Checklist Internal Combustion Engine Industrial Truck Gas/LPG/Diesel Truck Reviewed: October 8, 2019 Record of Fuel Added Date: Operator: Shift: PIT Make/Model: Serial #: Hour meter: Fuel: Engine Oil: Hydraulic Oil: Radiator Coolant: Safety and Operational Checks (prior to each shift) Have a qualified mechanic correct all problems. Do not use until item is corrected. Engine Off Checks OK Maintenance needed Leaks Fuel, Hydraulic Oil, Engine Oil or Radiator Coolant Tires Condition and Pressure Forks, Top Clip Retaining Pin and Heel Check Condition Load Backrest Securely Attached Hydraulic Hoses, Mast Chains, Cables and Stops Check Visually Overhead Guard Attached Finger Guards Attached Propane Tank (LP Gas Truck) Rust Corrosion, Damage Safety Warnings Attached (Refer to Parts Manual for Location) Battery Check Water/Electrolyte Level and Charge All Engine Belts Check Visually Hydraulic Fluid Level Check Level Engine Oil Level Dipstick Transmission Fluid Level Dipstick Engine Air Cleaner Squeeze Rubber Dirt Trap or Check the Restriction Alarm (if equipped) Fuel Sedimentor (Diesel) Radiator Coolant Check Level Operator's Manual In Container Nameplate Attached and Information Matches Model, Serial Number and Attachments Seat Belt Functioning Smoothly Hood Latch Adjusted and Securely Fastened Brake Fluid Check Level Engine On Checks Unusual Noises Must Be Investigated Immediately OK Maintenance needed Accelerator or Direction Control Pedal Functioning Smoothly Service Brake Functioning Smoothly Parking Brake Functioning Smoothly Steering Operation Functioning Smoothly Drive Control Forward/Reverse Functioning Smoothly Tilt Control Forward and Back Functioning Smoothly Hoist and Lowering Control Functioning Smoothly Attachment Control Operation Horn and Lights Functioning Cab (if equipped) Heater, Defroster, Wipers Functioning Gauges: Ammeter, Engine Oil Pressure, Hour Meter, Fuel Level, Temperature, Monitors Functioning Safety Policy 149, Appendix D Sample Operator's Daily Checklist Electric Industrial Truck Reviewed: October 8, 2019 Record of Fuel Added Date: Operator: Shift: PIT Make/Model: Serial #: Hour meter: Fuel: Engine Oil: Hydraulic Oil: Radiator Coolant: Safety and Operational Checks (prior to each shift) Have a qualified mechanic correct all problems. Do not use until item is corrected. Motor Off Checks OK Maintenance needed Leaks Hydraulic Oil, Battery Tires Condition and Pressure Forks, Top Clip Retaining Pin and Heel Condition Load Backrest Extension Attached Hydraulic Hoses, Mast Chains, Cables & Stops Check Visually Finger Guards Attached Overhead Guard Attached Safety Warnings Attached (Refer to Parts Manual for Location) Battery Water/Electrolyte Level and Charge Hydraulic Fluid Level Dipstick Transmission Fluid Level Dipstick Operator's Manual in Container Capacity Plate Attached Information Matches Model, Serial Number and Attachments Battery Restraint System Adjust and Fasten Operator Protection Sitdown Truck Seat Belt Functioning Smoothly Man up Truck Fall protection/Restraining means Functioning Brake Fluid Check level Motor On Checks (Unusual Noises Must Be Investigated Immediately) OK Maintenance needed Accelerator Linkage Functioning Smoothly Parking Brake Functioning Smoothly Service Brake Functioning Smoothly Steering Operation Functioning Smoothly Drive Control Forward/Reverse Functioning Smoothly Tilt Control Forward and Back Functioning Smoothly Hoist and Lowering Control Functioning Smoothly Attachment Control Operation Horn Functioning Lights & Alarms (where present) Functioning Hour Meter Functioning Battery Discharge Indicator Functioning Instrument Monitors Functioning Safety Policy 149, Appendix E Sample Operator’s Daily Checklist Walking Pallet Truck Reviewed: October 8, 2019 Date: Operator: Make/Model: Truck #: Check each item OK Not OK Explain if Not OK Forks Battery Handguards Brakes Check the drive operations Horn Load handling attachments Corrective actions required: Corrected on:


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 1 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE • To protect employees, patients, visitors, and contractor personnel from electrical hazards. • To minimize the possibility of electrical shock, electrocution, or fire from the use of inadequate current bearing wiring. • To comply with local electrical codes, Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Joint Commission (TJC) requirements, and the following consensus standards:: • National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) National Electrical Code (NEC) • NFPA 70E Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace • NFPA 101 Life Safety Code • NFPA 99 Health Care Facilities Code • New York City Electrical Code • National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) • OSHA General Industry (1910) and Construction (1926) standards • To provide a written plan of action for personnel to follow in the event of an accident where a person has received an electric shock. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All NYULH owned and leased facilities. − All employees, contractors, subcontractors vendors and consultants of NYULH Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 2 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 2.0 Scope This policy covers: • the design, installation, and maintenance of electrical wiring and wiring components, including temporary and permanent wiring, pull boxes, junction boxes, fittings, switch boards, panel boards, switches, conductors, light sockets, and flexible cords and cables in all NYULH facilities • proper usage of extension cords and relocatable power taps (RPTs), or power strips • emergency procedure for electric shock • procedures for use of electrical equipment 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for: • developing the policy and updating it as needed • conducting semi annual quality assurance (QA) inspections for electrical hazards and distributing summary reports 3.2 Clinical Engineering is responsible for: • periodic maintenance of RPTs • purchase of RPTs • coordinating the power requirements of new equipment with Facilities and/or Real Estate departments • developing and conducting training for clinical staff who use RPTs on RPT capacity and proper use 3.3 Departments that coordinate work involving electrical wiring and wiring components and/or installation and use of equipment are responsible for compliance with the policy. Their responsibilities include: • ensuring that every project manager is trained on and familiar with the requirements of this policy • including the requirements of this policy in bid documents • ensuring that contractors are appropriately trained and informed about the policy Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 3 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 • ensuring that the policy is implemented and all requirements are followed, including for RPTs • informing Facilities or Real Estate (offsite locations) of installation of new equipment • arranging for the installation of electrical outlets or circuits for new equipment • ensuring proper operation and maintenance of equipment, including the retaining of the manufacturer or authorized agent to perform required maintenance and repairs 3.4 Project Managers are responsible for implementing the policy on their projects. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to: • ensuring that work involving electrical wiring and wiring components is filed, inspected, and closed out with the local Department of Buildings or the appropriate authority having jurisdiction • ensuring that contractors and employees install and maintain wiring and wiring components in accordance with this policy • conducting (or coordinating) daily inspections during the project duration and following up on identified issues • coordinating close out inspections by licensed electricians from Facilities • ensuring that contractors correct the identified deficiencies, and withholding final payment until every deficiency is corrected 3.5 Clinical staff who use RPTs are responsible for: • completing training provided by Clinical Engineering on capacity of RPTs and proper use • ensuring proper use of RPTs within patient care areas RPTs are approved for use in the following areas/services: Operating Rooms, Procedural Areas, Pediatrics, Emergency Department, Cardiology, Medicine, Neurology, and Surgery 3.6 Employees that use electrical equipment are responsible for: • using equipment in accordance with manufacturers’ instructions and this policy • contacting Facilities or Real Estate (offsite locations), when issues are identified or if additional outlets and/or circuits are needed Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 4 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 4.0 Electrical wiring and wiring components 4.1 All employees and contractor personnel who engage in work that involves electrical wiring or wiring components shall: • install and maintain the wiring and components in accordance with the current adopted CMS/Joint Commission/FGI editions of the NEC and any applicable state or local Electrical Code • perform work above 50 volts only under the supervision of an appropriately licensed electrician • plan and perform work on live systems in excess of 50 volts in accordance with the requirements set forth in the NFPA 70E Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace 4.2 Any contractor failing to conform to this policy shall be prohibited from working at NYULH. 4.3 Electrical equipment to be employed outdoors or otherwise exposed to water, liquids or other hazards shall be protected within the proper National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) rated enclosure. 4.4 Live electrical wiring shall not be exposed. All electrical wiring shall be protected against chafing. 4.5 Temporary wiring shall be elevated off the ground in accordance with OSHA standard 29 CFR 1926, Subpart K. 4.6 Electrical rooms and electrical panels in public areas shall be kept locked. Electrical panels and junction boxes shall be covered with an appropriate manufactured cover and trim when not being serviced. Electrical panels within locked electrical rooms or secured areas are not required to be locked, but shall be closed and latched. 4.7 Contractors shall not use NYULH outlets to power tools or equipment unless specifically authorized by Facilities, Real Estate, or building management. Where use of a NYULH outlet is authorized, a ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) device must be in use between the outlet and the tool or equipment. 4.8 Prior to performing work in a NYULH building, the Project Manager shall arrange for Facilities, Real Estate, or building management to shut down electrical power in the construction space utilizing the NYULH Pre Demolition Validation permit process. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 5 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 4.9 Facilities, Real Estate, or building management shall tie in the contractor’s temporary lighting and power system. The temporary power system shall either be connected to GFCI circuit breakers or maintained under an assured equipment grounding conductor program in accordance with OSHA 1926.404(b)(1)(iii). 4.10 Electrical installations and equipment shall comply with NYULH Safety Policy No. 122, Fire Prevention. 5.0 Close out inspection 5.1 Upon completion of a construction/renovation project, the licensed electrician who filed the application shall coordinate an inspection with the local Department of Buildings, where applicable. In jurisdictions where the local Department of Buildings does not inspect, the licensed electrician shall coordinate an inspection by a third party electrical inspection service approved by the authority having jurisdiction. 5.2 The electrician shall inspect all wiring and wiring components for code compliance and shall inform the project manager of all deficiencies. 5.3 The project manager shall notify Facilities, or Real Estate when deficiencies have been corrected. The project manager shall utilize a licensed electrician to correct electrical deficiencies and provide a report to Facilities or Real Estate to confirm that they have been corrected. Electrical extension cords and RPTs 5.4 Electrical extension cords  Electrical extension cords are prohibited in all patient care areas. Exceptions must be approved by the Environment of Care (EOC) Committee, except in emergencies as summarized in 6.3.  Extension cords are permitted in non patient care areas for temporary use only and must be used in accordance with all applicable codes. Extension cords must: not be used as a substitute for the fixed wiring of a structure not run through holes in walls, structural ceilings, suspended ceilings, dropped ceilings, or floors not run through doorways, windows or similar openings not run on the floor in areas where they may pose a tripping hazard or could be damaged Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 6 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021  Extension cords used in wet areas must be GFCI protected. A limited number are available in the Facilities Department stockroom and the electrical shop. 5.5 Relocatable Power Taps (RPTs)  RPTs may be used for non patient care equipment such as computers/monitors/printers, and in areas such as waiting rooms, offices, nurse stations, support areas, corridors.  RPTs and power strips used in patient care rooms shall comply with all requirements of NFPA 99 (2012) and NFPA 101 (2012)  RPTs shall only be used in anesthetizing locations if they are permanently attached to the equipment. Clamp mounted RPTs are not permanent. Clamp mounted RPTs shall be installed by Clinical Engineering, Facilities, or MCIT. Clamp mounted RPTs shall be inventoried by Clinical Engineering or BioMed (NYULH LI).  If RPTs are used, they shall: be used for surge suppression; not be used as extension cords be hospital grade and UL listed with ground fault and over current protection o patient care: UL 1363A or UL 60601 1 o non patient care: UL 1363 never be “daisy chained” (2 or more RPTs connected in series) be prevented from becoming tripping hazards be appropriate for the number and types of devices used (e.g., one plug per outlet) be installed in an electrical outlet with no other devices plugged into outlets on the same circuit. If in doubt, Facilities should be contacted to specify the outlet that may be used. never exceed device capacity load (see Appendix A) 5.6 Emergency Use of Extension Cords and RPTs Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 7 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021  Extension cords and RPTs may be used during an emergency to prevent the loss of life or property without prior approval from the EOC committee.  Designated extension cords and RPTs, located at the nurse’s station on each patient floor, may be used during loss of electrical power (see Safety Policy 117, Emergency Power).  Extension cords and RPTs approved for use or used in an emergency must be either Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listed, double insulated, with grounded cords, or manufactured by the staff electricians, under direction of the Manager of Electrical Systems 6.0 Use of electrical equipment 6.1 All equipment shall be visually examined by the user prior to use to ensure there are no obvious defects or damage. If there is any defect, damage or question by the user, the equipment must NOT be used. The manufacturer, contractor or staff electricians shall be contacted. 6.2 Electrical cords must not be frayed or damaged in any way. 6.3 All plugs must be grounded type plugs; three prong to two prong adapters are not permitted. 6.4 Ungrounded equipment must be manufactured with non metallic casing and be UL listed. All ungrounded equipment must have double insulated wire. (i.e., labeled double insulated or Class II, or bearing this symbol ). 6.5 Equipment with IEC listings only are not permitted unless approved by the licensed electricians from Facilities. 6.6 If a circuit breaker trips upon activation of the equipment, the circuit breaker or ground fault (if a GFCI outlet) shall NOT be reset. Facilities or Real Estate must be called immediately. 7.0 Performance monitoring EH&S shall conduct QA inspections for electrical deficiencies in conjunction with Hazard Surveillance inspections and QA inspections for penetrations. 8.0 Emergency procedures for electrical shock Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 8 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 8.1 If someone appears to be receiving electrical shock and is still in contact with the current, do NOT touch the person with your bare hands. 8.2 Shut off the current if possible. Stay away from high voltage wires until the power is turned off. 8.3 If shutting off the current is not possible, use an insulator to cautiously remove contact from the victim while staying as far away as possible. An insulator is any dry, non conducting object, such as a heavy rubber hose or a hand inside a glass beaker. Push the victim or current source aside to remove contact from the victim. A dry towel will not suffice. 8.4 If someone appears to have been a victim of electrical shock, do not move the person unless they are in immediate danger. Dial the emergency phone number for your location: On Cisco phones: 33 911 Otherwise: 212 263 3911 (on the superblock) or 911 (all other locations) Related policies: 117: Emergency Power 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements 122: Fire Prevention 145: Interim Life Safety Measures 156: Installation & Maintenance of Dispensers for Alcohol based Hand Sanitizer 203: Electrical Equipment Privately Owned 207: Portable Space Heaters Appendix A Relocatable Power Tap (RPT) Assemblies Issue date 07/2021 Replaces 11/2019 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer M. Figueroa, Environmental Health & Safety S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety B. Kenny, NYULH LI Engineering V. Matozzo, Purchasing D. Resnick, Facilities Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Engineering Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 157 Policy: Electrical Safety Page 9 of 10 Revised: July 2, 2021 L. Wetstein, Clinical Engineering NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes July 2021 3.4 Clarifies PM responsibilities for closing out projects 4.1 Updates code requirements 5.1 Updates to include close out inspection requirements outside of NYC 5.6 Adds use of designated extension cords and RPTs at nurse’s station during power outages Appendix A Updates to Relocatable Power Tap (RPT) Assemblies March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Health Long Island October 2019 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 3.2 Adds responsibilities at Winthrop 7.1 Update LSC code reference, and remove reference to categorical waiver. Reviewed by Adds review by NYULH B Facilities and NYU Winthrop Hospital April 2019 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references Application Adds Clinical Engineering and Clinical Staff who use RPTs 3.2 Adds responsibility to Clinical Engineering for providing training on proper use of RPTs and RPT capacity 3.5 Adds responsibility for Clinical Staff who use RPTs Appendix A Adds Common Devices Used with RPTs March 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Adds Lutheran Facilities 3.2 Adds responsibilities for Clinical Engineering 4.7 and 4.8 Clarifies requirements for contractors 6.2 Adds information for RPTs Review by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 157, Appendix A Relocatable Power Tap (RPT) Assemblies • RPTs must be permanently secured to the SAME cart /IV pole/rack as the equipment plugged in as part of an assembly. • No Other Equipment can be plugged into an RPT • Less than 15 amps total • UL 1363A or UL 60601 Listed Clinical Engineering July 1, 2021 IV Pole Type Equipment Cart Type Typical Equipment Assembly IV Pole mounted equipment such as infusion pumps, fluid warmers, humidifiers. Endoscopy, Arthroscopy Cart Anesthesia cart with computer equipment RPT Assembly Requirements Hand tool required for removal. Tie wrap, set screw or equivalent. Hand tool required for removal. Tie wrap, screws or equivalent


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 1 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE • To establish a Program for managing asbestos containing materials (ACM) in a way that minimizes or eliminates the potential hazard to patients, employees, vendors, and members of the public. • To comply with federal, state, and local regulations for ACM. 1.0 Policy Purchase or installation of ACM (greater than 0. asbestos) is prohibited. If it is necessary to disturb existing suspect or confirmed ACM, the work shall be done only by licensed asbestos vendors, approved by Environmental Health and Safety, under controlled conditions, in accordance with all applicable regulations. 2.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to:  All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities. o ACM has been found in a variety of building materials and installed equipment throughout NYULH facilities. A list of common suspect materials is included as Appendix A. Though more prevalent in buildings constructed prior to 1980, ACM can be present in some new materials.  All employees, contractors and consultants of NYULH. The primary departments and divisions impacted by the program are: Building Services (housekeeping group) and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital (NYULOH) Environmental Services Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 2 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 Environmental Services (main campus, buildings and grounds group) Facilities Operations, Facilities Engineering, and NYU Langone Hopsital Brooklyn (NYULH B) Facilities (collectively known as Facilities) Information Technology (cable management group) Real Estate RED+F Design and Construction 3.0 Program availability Copies of this document are available upon request to all employees of NYU Langone Health System (the System), NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities that are controlled by the System. 4.0 Background Asbestos is a naturally occurring mineral that exhibits the following characteristics: good insulating properties, heat resistance, chemical resistance, flexibility, and durability. As such, asbestos was incorporated into many building materials and installed during new construction. However, scientific studies have shown associations between exposure to airborne asbestos and pulmonary diseases such as lung cancer, asbestosis, and mesothelioma. The occurrence of these diseases is influenced by the type of asbestos mineral fiber, the size of the mineral fiber, as well as the concentration and duration of airborne asbestos exposure. Asbestos related disease does not develop immediately after inhalation of asbestos fibers; it may take 20 or more years for symptoms of disease to appear. As a result of the many studies conducted, asbestos is classified as a human carcinogen. Several federal, state and local agencies have promulgated regulations to protect workers and the general public. The mere presence of asbestos in a building does not mean that the building occupants are endangered. Intact and undisturbed ACM does not pose a health risk. This policy describes the program NYULH has implemented to prevent potential exposure and comply with regulatory requirements. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 3 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 5.0 Regulatory Summary In New York City (NYC), multiple regulatory agencies have jurisdiction over ACM in buildings. They include the NYC Department of Environmental Protection, (DEP), New York State (NYS) Department of Labor (DOL), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Each agency has promulgated regulations that address various aspects of maintenance and handling of ACM in order to protect building occupants from asbestos exposure and to protect ambient air. In general, where regulations overlap, the more stringent apply. 5.1 NYC DEP: NYC’s asbestos abatement law was originally established in 1985 by Local Law 76. The rules and regulations which guide the implementation of this law are found in Title 15 Chapter 1. These regulations address the proper identification, handling, abatement, and disposal of ACM in public and commercial buildings, and the certification of asbestos professionals. 5.2 The NYS DOL adopted Industrial Code Rule 56 (ICR 56) to address the proper identification, handling, abatement, and disposal of ACM in public and commercial buildings. In NYC, when regulations overlap, the DEP regulations apply. 5.3 OSHA regulations address both in house and contractor worker protection and notification. The OSHA Final Rule on Occupational Exposure to Asbestos, OSHA standards 29 CFR 1910.1001 and 29 CFR 1926.1101, address management of in place asbestos, as well as requirements for control of asbestos that will be disturbed during the course of construction, renovation or repair activities. 5.4 The EPA has promulgated regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA), 40 CFR Part763 Subpart E. Additionally, asbestos is regulated under the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant regulations (NESHAPS) 40 CFR Part 61 Subpart M. The AHERA regulations address specific training requirements for asbestos related activities, as well as defining requirements for certain asbestos investigations, sampling and analyses. AHERA was originally designed to address asbestos exposure in school buildings, but Congress extended the training requirements to all buildings. Investigation and analytical techniques described in AHERA comprise much of the industry standard used in asbestos related work. EPA NESHAPS regulations prohibit "visible emissions" of asbestos and specify off site disposal procedures to be used. 6.0 Definitions Abatement means all procedures physically taken to control fiber release from ACM. This includes removal, encapsulation, enclosure, cleanup, and repair. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 4 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 ACM refers to asbestos containing material and means asbestos or any material containing more than percent asbestos. Asbestos means any hydrated mineral silicate separable into commercially usable fibers, including but not limited to chrysotile (serpentine), amosite (cumingtonite grunerite), crocidolite (riebeckite), tremolite, anthophyllite, and actinolite. Asbestos Project Notification refers to submission of Form ACP5, ACP7 to the DEP. Note: for any project involving more than 160 linear feet or 260 square feet of friable ACM, the DOL must also be notified 10 calendar days and the EPA 10 working days in advance of project start. Asbestos survey means a complete assessment of an area and all potentially impacted suspect ACM within the designated area, by a licensed asbestos investigator, following procedures specified by the DEP and the EPA. It may require destructive sampling. Asbestos vendor means a consultant, contractor, or waste hauler that is licensed to work with asbestos and approved for work at NYULH. Clearance air monitoring refers to air monitoring performed after the completion of abatement, to determine if the space can be reoccupied. Decontamination enclosure system means a series of connected rooms, separated from the work area and from each other by air locks, for the decontamination of workers, materials, waste containers, and equipment. Demolition means the dismantling, razing, or removal of all of a building or structure, or removal of structural members, floors, interior bearing walls, and/or exterior walls or portions thereof, including all operations incident thereto. DEP refers to the NYC Department of Environmental Protection. DOB refers to the NYC Department of Buildings. DOL refers to the NYC Department of Labor. Enclosure means the construction of airtight walls and ceilings between ACM and the facility environment, or around surfaces coated with ACM, or any other appropriate procedure which prevents the release of asbestos fibers. Encapsulant refers to a liquid material which can be applied to ACM which controls the possible release of asbestos fibers from the material or surface. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 5 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 EPA refers to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Glovebag refers to a method for removing ACM material from heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) ducts, short piping runs, valves, joints, elbows, and other non planar surfaces. The glovebag is constructed and installed in such a manner that it surrounds the object or area to be decontaminated and contains all asbestos fibers released during the removal process. HEPA filter refers to a high efficiency particulate air filter, capable of trapping and retaining 99.97 percent of particles with a diameter of 0.3 microns. HEPA filtered vacuum refers to a vacuum specifically designed for asbestos abatement and equipped with a HEPA filter. OSHA refers to the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Plasticize means to cover floors, walls, ceilings, equipment, and objects with fire retardant plastic sheeting. Removal means the stripping of any ACM from surfaces or components of a facility or taking out structural components in accordance with 40 CFR 61 Subparts A and M. Surface barriers means the plasticizing of walls, floors, and fixed objects within the work area to prevent contamination from subsequent work. Visible emissions mean any emissions containing particulate material that are visually detectable without the aid of instruments. Waste manifest means waste shipment records that accompany all asbestos waste from the site of origin (NYULH) to the final destination landfill, and all transfer points in between. The waste shipment record must be signed by each party handling the material, and the final destination facility must sign the manifest and return a copy to NYULH within 35 days. Work area means designated rooms, spaces, or areas of the building or structure where asbestos abatement activities take place. For glovebag procedures, the work area also includes the areas contiguous to where the procedure takes place Work Place Safety Plan (WPSP) addresses the mitigation measures that are required for each area of abatement that does not fully adhere to NYC Building, Fire codes in regards to egress or fire safety regulations. The WPSP generates the ATRU permit. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 6 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 7.0 Responsibilities This section summarizes the responsibilities of key personnel involved in developing, implementing, and evaluating the Asbestos Management Program (the Program). Asbestos has one of the highest public profiles of any environmental contaminant and is subject to intense federal, state, and local regulation. Due to the serious potential adverse health effects of exposure and liability if the regulations are not followed, NYULH’s Corporate Officers have overall responsibility for the Program 7.1 The Corporate Officers are responsible for:  Allocating the resources necessary to implement the Program and to comply with the pertinent regulations discussed therein; and  Ensuring that Vice Presidents and Directors meet their responsibilities for implementing and maintaining the Program. The key to successful management of asbestos in buildings is strong oversight by knowledgeable professionals whose primary mission is to minimize health consequences and to maximize regulatory compliance. In recognition of this, the Corporate Officers have assigned the responsibility for managing the Program and asbestos vendors to Environmental Health and Safety. This enables NYULH to respond knowledgeably and credibly to concerns about asbestos from members of the medical center community, regulators, and the general public. 7.2 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for:  Developing the Program and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Providing the Corporate Officers and Vice Presidents with information needed to support decisions about ACM.  Serving as a liaison to the regulatory community.  Managing asbestos vendors. Evaluating qualifications. Working with legal counsel to develop and maintain Master Agreements. Reviewing contract language. Serving as a liaison between RED+F Project Managers (PMs) and asbestos vendors. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 7 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 Evaluating the technical nature of the work being done by asbestos vendors and ensuring that safety and compliance are primary in the conduct of the work. Coordinating asbestos surveys, abatement projects, and third party monitoring with asbestos vendors. Ensuring asbestos filings are prepared and submitted in accordance with regulatory requirements. Note: In order to facilitate coordination among contractors, on a case by case basis EH&S evaluates whether the asbestos abatement contractor should work for a General Contractor, a Construction Manager, or another (e.g., masonry) contractor.  Posting Notices of Asbestos Abatement, in accordance with DEP requirements.  Coordinating posting of asbestos signs and labels, in accordance with OSHA requirements.  Providing annual asbestos awareness training to employees whose work activities could disturb suspect ACM. This includes employees in: Building Services (housekeeping group) and NYULOH Environmental Services Environmental Services (main campus, buildings and grounds group) Facilities Operations, Facilities Engineering, and NYULH B Facilities (collectively known as Facilities) Information Technology (cable management group) Real Estate RED+F Design and Construction  Responding promptly to questions (e.g., from PMs) and concerns (e.g., from staff and students) about suspect ACM.  Managing the response to emergencies involving suspect ACM.  Preparing the annual FIN47 report. This report presents an estimate of the quantity of ACM in owned facilities and the cost to abate that ACM. Providing copies to PMs for use in preparing project budgets.  Maintaining documentation for asbestos surveys and assessments, abatement projects, air monitoring, waste disposal, regulatory filings and correspondence, and exposure assessments for NYULH personnel. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 8 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 7.3 The Vice Presidents and Directors of Building Services, Environmental Services, Facilities, Information Technology, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for compliance within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Ensuring their employees, contractors, and other vendors whose work activities could disturb suspect ACM: Are familiar with this policy. Receive information about suspect ACM at NYULH facilities. Attend annual asbestos awareness training. Understand that they must request an asbestos survey prior to conducting any work that could impact suspect ACM. Avoid contact with and disturbance of suspect or confirmed ACM. Avoid storing materials against potentially friable suspect or confirmed ACM. Avoid damaging suspect or confirmed ACM while moving objects. Understand their responsibility to notify their supervisors of any observations related to damaged suspect or confirmed ACM. Understand their responsibility to notify their supervisors of potential exposures or hazardous conditions and of any pertinent problems. 7.4 The RED+F Program Directors and Project Executives are responsible for overall compliance on their projects. 7.5 Managers and Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, maintenance, and cable management) are responsible for implementing and maintaining the Program on their projects. The Managers’ and PMs’ responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Attending annual asbestos awareness training.  Completing Asbestos 101 for PMs FOCUS module.  Ensuring all personnel (e.g., employees, contractors, and other vendors) who are working on the project and whose work activities could disturb suspect or confirmed ACM: Are familiar with this policy. Receive information about ACM at NYULH facilities. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 9 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 Understand that they must request an asbestos survey prior to conducting any work that could impact suspect ACM. Avoid contact with and disturbance of suspect or confirmed ACM. Avoid storing materials against potentially friable suspect or confirmed ACM. Avoid damaging suspect or confirmed ACM while moving objects. Understand their responsibility to notify their supervisors of any observations related to damaged suspect or confirmed ACM. Understand their responsibility to notify their supervisors of potential exposures or hazardous conditions and of any pertinent problems.  Contacting EH&S in writing and requesting an asbestos survey prior to conducting work that may impact ACM. (In an actual emergency, EH&S may waive some of the following requirements). Defining the scope of the project, including all impacted areas. Providing project PIM number and complete drawings. Ensuring paths of all utility connections (e.g., plumbing, IT, electrical, and HVAC) are clearly identified. Coordinating a pre survey walkthrough with EH&S and the asbestos consultant; including the architect and engineer for major projects. Reviewing the consultant’s asbestos survey report. Notifying EH&S if changes have been made to the plans since the survey, which may necessitate additional investigation.  Managing the project. Coordinating with EH&S all work that requires asbestos vendors. Preparing and managing the asbestos budget. Preparing Purchase Requisitions and Change Order Requests. Approving invoices. Preparing the project schedule. Confirming with EH&S that there is sufficient time for asbestos related activity. For leased facilities, coordinating with Real Estate and/or the building owner. Notifying and coordinating with occupants. Arranging access for the asbestos vendors to the project site. Arranging access hatches and probes, if needed. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 10 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 Confirming that the written scope of abatement is accurate and meets the needs of the project. Providing all drawings needed to finalize the abatement plan. Providing non asbestos contractors with a copy survey report. Coordinating the schedule with other project managers and contractors (e.g., demolition). Preparing the space for abatement. Coordinating utility requirements (e.g., HVAC shutdowns, electrical connections, plumbing requirements, notification of IT). For locations that are not part of the superblock, arranging a secure location for the asbestos waste dumpster and DOT permit for the asbestos waste Working with EH&S to ensure proper interim life safety measures (e.g., emergency egress and fire watches) are implemented. Participating in a pre abatement walkthrough. Obtaining any DOB permit needed for pre abatement work. Finalizing abatement schedule and phasing. 7.6 Real Estate is responsible for coordinating all activities that might impact suspect or confirmed ACM with the building owner and/or building management company. 7.7 Environmental Services (main campus) is responsible for verifying that the cleaning contractor follows OSHA requirements when cleaning suspect or confirmed ACM floor tile. 7.8 Building Services and NYULOH Environmental Services are responsible for instructing their staff on OSHA requirements for cleaning suspect or confirmed ACM floor tile, documenting the training, and verifying that staff follow the procedures. 7.9 Employees who reasonably have the potential to disturb suspect or confirmed ACM are responsible for:  Attending annual asbestos awareness training.  Avoiding contact with and disturbance of suspect or confirmed ACM.  Requesting an asbestos survey prior to conducting any work that could impact suspect ACM. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 11 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021  Avoiding storing materials against potentially friable suspect or confirmed ACM.  Avoiding damaging suspect or confirmed ACM while moving objects.  Notifying their supervisors of any observations related to damaged suspect or confirmed ACM.  Notifying their supervisors of potential exposures and of any pertinent problems. 8.0 Master Contracts and Work Orders for asbestos vendors 8.1 EH&S maintains Master Contracts for approved asbestos consultants and abatement contractors. A Work Order is used to initiate work under these contracts. 8.2 An asbestos consultant or abatement contractor may not begin work until they have a fully executed project specific Contract or Work Order.  The Senior Director of EH&S is authorized to sign Work Orders for work that will be charged to Blanket Orders for asbestos emergencies.  Work Orders for all other asbestos projects will be processed in Unifier and approved in accordance to the RED+F Approval Matrix. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 12 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 9.0 Asbestos Control Program 9.1 Identification of suspect ACM  To the extent feasible, warning signs are posted in areas where suspect or confirmed ACM is known to be present (e.g., mechanical rooms; MSB cellar corridor).  PMs provide contractors with information on suspect or confirmed ACM and instruct them that they may not disturb suspect ACM. 9.2 Annual asbestos awareness training  Each department/division must ensure that personnel who may work near ACM, or may be responsible for projects that may impact ACM, receive annual asbestos awareness training.  EH&S offers training to the following departments/divisions: Building Services (housekeeping group) and NYULOH Environmental Services Environmental Services (main campus, buildings and grounds group) Facilities Operations, Facilities Engineering, NYULH B Facilities (collectively known as Facilities) Information Technology (cable management group) Real Estate RED+F Design and Construction  Content Health effects of asbestos. Relation between smoking and asbestos exposure. Locations and types of ACM in the facility. Recognition of damage and deterioration. Prohibition on dusting, vacuuming, or sweeping dust, debris, or waste in areas containing suspect or confirmed ACM. Procedures for reporting asbestos problems and concerns. Response to accidental disturbance of ACM. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 13 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 The following additional requirements are addressed with personnel who clean suspect or confirmed ACM floors: o Sanding of suspect or confirmed ACM floors is prohibited. o Stripping of finishes shall be conducted using low abrasion pads at speeds lower than 300 rpm and wet methods. o Burnishing or dry buffing may be performed only on flooring which has sufficient finish so that the pad cannot contact suspect or confirmed ACM. 9.3 Inspections for damaged ACM EH&S coordinates periodic inspection for damaged ACM in high risk areas, such as machine rooms. 9.4 Planned construction, renovation and maintenance projects  Asbestos survey EH&S ensures that all surveys are conducted safely and in accordance with the DEP, DOL, OSHA, and EPA asbestos regulations. PMs anticipating maintenance, renovation, or construction work activities submit a request for an asbestos survey to EH&S prior to initiating activities that could disturb suspect ACM. The PM provides all necessary documentation to detail the scope of the planned work. Such documentation includes design plans and drawings indicating all areas that will be impacted, and a schedule for the work. For minor projects, hand drawn drawings are acceptable. EH&S reviews departmental files and forwards relevant information about ACM to the PM. o This does not eliminate the need for an asbestos survey. Consultants generally cannot issue an ACP 5 based on past negative sample results or past gut renovations. The PM meets with EH&S and the consultant to review the work activities and to identify the materials to be sampled. Upon approval to proceed, EH&S prepares a Work Order for the survey, obtains the consultants signature, and forwards the Work Order to the PM. The PM prepares a Purchase Requisition, attaches the Work Order, and processes it. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 14 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 The PM arranges access for the consultant to all areas that need to be surveyed. The consultant provides a DEP certified asbestos investigator. The investigator obtains and processes samples, and the consultant prepares a report. EH&S provides QA for the process and forwards the final report to the PM. Upon receiving construction drawings, the PM and EH&S evaluate the need for additional samples. If conditions have changed since the survey was conducted or areas were inaccessible at the time of the survey, additional samples may be required.  Contractor selection The PM, consultant, and EH&S define the scope of abatement based on the results of the survey and final plans for the project. The consultant prepares a bid package. EH&S provides QA for the process. The PM schedules a bid walkthrough and ensures that appropriate individuals (e.g., the PM, architect, and engineer) attend so all questions can be answered. EH&S identifies and invites appropriate pre qualified contractors. EH&S reviews the bids, addresses all discrepancies, and recommends a contractor.  Preparation for asbestos abatement EH&S reviews and forwards the consultant’s monitoring proposal to the PM. The PM prepares and processes a Purchase Request for the contractor and a Change Order Request for the consultant. If soft demolition is needed to facilitate abatement, the PM forwards drawings to EH&S and EH&S obtains an ACP 5 from the consultant. The PM coordinates DOB filings and obtains necessary DOB permits. EH&S posts the written Notice of Asbestos Abatement in and adjacent to areas where asbestos will be abated, as required by the DEP. The PM provides EH&S a target start date for the DEP Asbestos Project Notifications or other required DEP filings. The abatement contractor prepares and submits the DEP Asbestos Project Notification, any variances or other required DEP filings, and any required Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 15 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 DOL or EPA notifications. EH&S provides QA for the process. The PM provides notification of the project to personnel who may be impacted. The PM and EH&S review and approve any Work Place Safety Plans (WPSP) before they are submitted to the DEP. The PM coordinates moves and relocations. The PM manages relocation of all movable items in the work area. The PM manages logistics, including shutdown of HVAC, plumbing and electrical connections for the abatement contractor, emergency egress, and fire and life safety issues. For WPSP projects, the PM arranges fire watch for projects in which abatement is complete but shafts or egress has not been resorted.  Asbestos abatement EH&S manages all abatement projects in accordance with DEP, DOL, OSHA, and EPA asbestos regulations. The contractor isolates the work area by installing surface barriers, plasticizing all surfaces to prevent asbestos contamination, and maintaining the area under negative pressure using HEPA filtered blowers and/or vacuums. For minor projects, the contractor may use tents and/or glovebags under certain circumstances, if allowed by regulation. Decontamination areas are constructed to decontaminate personnel, materials and equipment as they are moved out of the asbestos abatement work area. Wet removal techniques are used. After cleaning, a thin coat of lockdown encapsulant is applied to all surfaces in the work area which were not the subject of removal or abatement, including cleaned surface barriers, but excluding sprinklers, standpipes, and other active elements of the fire suppression system. The consultant provides a project monitor, who holds a valid Project Monitor Certificate issued by the DOL. The monitor validates that the contractor and all workers have current licenses. The monitor collects air samples throughout the project and conducts inspections for compliance with the scope of work and applicable asbestos regulations. The monitor conducts a final visual inspection and clearance air monitoring to confirm that the work has been successfully completed and the area is cleared for re occupancy. When the monitor has confirmed that the space can be reoccupied, EH&S notifies the PM. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 16 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 For work filed with the DOB, the abatement contractor enters notification of project completion into the DEP’s web application. The DEP notifies the consultant, who approves the information and submits an ACP 15 to the DEP. The DEP subsequently issues an ACP 20 or ACP 21. The PM restores the area. The abatement contractor and consultant provide a final report or letter (depending on the size of the project to EH&S. 9.5 Emergency response  Under no circumstances are NYULH personnel or contractors (other than approved asbestos contractors) permitted to intentionally disturb ACM, even to facilitate emergency repairs. EH&S maintains contracts with approved asbestos contractors for emergency response.  In the case of an unexpected event, such as accidental disturbance of ACM or a pipe break, precautions are taken to prevent exposure to asbestos. Facilities and EH&S work jointly to contain and abate the hazard.  As a rule, Facilities isolates the area and restricts access, assesses the potential for presence of ACM, and immediately relays findings to EH&S.  Personnel must vacate the affected area until EH&S notifies them that the area has been cleared for re occupancy.  EH&S determines if samples of suspect materials are required. If asbestos vendors are needed, EH&S coordinates all asbestos vendors’ activities, including any required regulatory notifications.  Facilities personnel provide access to the location and are responsible for required utility shutdowns, and for repairs/restoration once potential hazards have been assessed and abated. 9.6 Waste disposal  EH&S contracts with a licensed asbestos waste hauler for the transport and disposal of ACM waste.  EH&S provides a holding area for ACM waste.  Contractors properly package, label, place, and log all ACM waste in locked holding area  EH&S coordinates a wait and load with an asbestos contractor and waste hauler. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 17 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021  The waste hauler transports the ACM waste to an approved landfill with the required waste manifest. EH&S maintains and tracks waste manifests to ensure that waste is received by the landfill within the required time period (35 days). 10.0 Recordkeeping 10.1 EH&S maintains documentation for all asbestos surveys, abatement projects, air monitoring, exposure monitoring, and asbestos waste manifest. 10.2 Each department is responsible for ensuring their staff is trained according to the requirements of this policy and maintaining their training records. EH&S will maintain records for training offered by EH&S. 10.3 Training records are maintained for a minimum of one year following the last day of employment. 11.0 Access to records NYULH training records and personal exposure monitoring records are available to employees of NYU Hospitals Center, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Langone Health System, and their respective affiliates, employee representatives, OSHA, and NIOSH in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. 12.0 Program evaluation EH&S conducts an annual evaluation of the program as part of the annual evaluation of NYULH’s Hazardous Materials and Wastes Management Plan. Appendix A List of Common Suspect Asbestos Containing Materials Issue date 04/2021 Replaces 05/2016 Reviewed by R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer E. Cintron, Real Estate M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety A. John, Environmental Services J. Mraz, Building Services D. Resnick, RED+F Construction E. Tautel, IT Cable Management NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care Committee Summary of Revisions Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 159 Policy: Asbestos Management Program Page 18 of 18 Revised: April 6, 2021 Revision date Section Changes April 2021 Throughout Changes Lutheran to NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn November 2016 2.0, 7.2, Collective refers to Facilities Operations, Facilities Engineering, and NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Facilities as Facilities May 2016 Application References Lutheran’s Asbestos Management Program 2.0 Adds NYU Langone Health Systems 6.0 Adds definition for Work Place Safety Plan 7.3 Clarifies responsibilities of VPs and Directors 7.5 Clarifies Manager and Project Manager responsibilities 8.2 Clarifies the asbestos project approval process for asbestos work orders not under the Blanket Order through Unifer 9.4 Clarifies preparation for asbestos abatement and WPSP approval 9.6 Updates asbestos waste disposal process 10.0 Clarifies recordkeeping of training Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 159, Appendix A Common Suspect Asbestos Containing Material The following is a list of materials found in medical center facilities that may contain asbestos. This list is not all inclusive, and additional materials may be present: Surfacing Materials Sprayed on fireproofing Ceiling and wall plaster Acoustical and decorative plasters (i.e., popcorn ceilings) Thermal System Insulation Air handler and duct insulation Pipe, Pipe fittings, flanges Boiler & Tank insulation Covering over fiberglass insulation Miscellaneous Materials Adhesives (e.g., wall panel, floor molding, wall mirrors and panels) Ceiling tile Ceramic tile backing Ceramic tile grout Cove base molding Drywall Drywall Joint Compound Duct caulk Electrical wire insulation Elevator brake shoes Expansion joints Exterior caulks or mastic Fire blankets Fire block/fire stopping material Fire doors Floor drain materials Floor leveling compound Floor tile Gaskets Lab benches/tops Lab hoods Linoleum and vinyl flooring Mastic/glue (floor tile, carpet, ceiling tiles) Pitch/tar Roof flashing Roofing Sealants and caulks on equipment Shingles Tar paper Terrazzo Transite panels Transite piping Vapor barrier Vermiculite insulation Vibration cloth/damper Wallboard Waterproofing (membrane, tar, mastic) Window caulk or chinking Window glazing


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 1 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE  To prevent employees and contractor personnel from falling off, onto, or through surfaces;  To protect patients, staff, and the public from being struck by falling objects; and  To comply with federal, state and local laws, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) fall protection standards (29 CFR 1910 subparts D and F and 1926 subpart M), New York State (NYS) Industrial Code Rule 23, and the New York City (NYC) and NYS Building Codes. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by them This policy applies to:  All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities  All employees and contractor personnel of NYULH The primary departments and divisions impacted by this program are:  Environmental Services;  Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, and Engineering (collectively Facilities);  Real Estate; and  Real Estate Development and Facilities (RED+F), Design and Construction. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 2 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021 2.0 Policy 2.1 Employees shall be protected against falls from heights greater than 4 feet at all times in accordance with OSHA 1910 subpart D and F and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z359 standard. 2.2 Contractor personnel, including scaffold erectors and ironworkers, shall be protected against falls from heights greater than 6 feet at all times in accordance with OSHA 1926 subpart M only (not subparts L or R) and the ANSI Z359 standard. 2.3 Use of active fall protection systems shall be limited to situations where elimination and passive fall protection systems cannot provide adequate protection or are not feasible. 2.4 Personnel shall not use active fall protection systems without approval from Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). 3.0 Definitions Authorized person means an employee assigned by his/her employer to perform duties at a location where that employee will be exposed to a fall hazard. Authorized persons are responsible for inspecting their fall protection equipment prior to each use and for properly storing and maintaining it. Competent person means an individual who, through training and knowledge, is capable of identifying, evaluating, and addressing existing and potential fall hazards, and who has the authority to take prompt corrective action with regard to such hazards. Competent persons are responsible for supervising the selection and use of structural anchorage and fall protection system components, conducting inspections of structural anchorage and all fall protection system components prior to each use, and immediately removing damaged equipment from service. Fall protection hierarchy refers to the following order of fall prevention and protection methods:  Elimination of the potential hazard (e.g., by pre fabricating components and lifting them into place, or utilizing tools and equipment that avoid placing a worker at height). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 3 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021  Passive fall protection system refers to systems that do not require the wearing or use of personal fall protection equipment (e.g., guardrail systems, engineered vertical fall protection systems, proper protection of floor openings, and use of engineered and tested horizontal personnel netting systems).  Active fall protection system refers to systems that require authorized persons to wear or use fall protection equipment and attend fall protection training. They include fall or travel restraint systems or a personal fall arrest system, as defined below. Fall or travel restraint system means a fall protection system requiring an authorized person to wear a body harness and a lanyard (secured to a proper anchorage point) short enough to prevent him/her from reaching a fall hazard. Personal fall arrest system means a system used to arrest an authorized person’s fall. It consists of an anchorage, connectors and a body harness, and may include a lanyard, deceleration device (e.g., rope grab or self retracting lifeline), lifeline or combination of these. Qualified person means a person with a recognized degree or professional certificate, and extensive knowledge, training and experience in fall protection and rescue. Qualified persons are responsible for supervising the design, installation, and inspection of fall protection equipment and non structural anchorage products/devices. 4.0 Responsibilities 4.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for:  Developing the Fall Prevention and Protection Program and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it;  Providing RED+F senior leadership with information needed to support decisions about fall protection;  Training RED+F managers and project managers on the requirements of the Program;  Maintaining a list of consultants who can provide competent persons and qualified persons;  Responding promptly to questions and concerns about fall protection; and Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 4 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021  Monitoring the effectiveness of the fall protection program and providing recommendations for improving it. 4.2 Vice Presidents and Directors are responsible for implementing the program within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to, communicating the requirements of this policy to their employees and contractors. 4.3 RED+F Program Directors and Project Executives are responsible for working with the Project Managers (PMs) assigned to their projects to implement the Program. 4.4 Managers and PMs (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, maintenance, and cable management) are responsible for implementing and maintaining the program on their projects. The Managers’ and PMs’ responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Communicating the requirements of this policy to their employees and contractors;  Assessing the need for fall protection during the design phase of new projects, and for day to day tasks. For anticipated work at heights, working with a competent person to review feasible fall prevention and protection options using the fall protection hierarchy, and developing specifications;  Ensuring a competent person supervises the use of engineered horizontal or vertical fall protection systems and active fall protection systems;  Coordinating pre planning sessions with appropriate personnel, including a qualified person, at least one week in advance of any work that involves active fall protection systems; and  Conducting routine inspections of their projects for proper use of fall protection and immediately following up on identified issues. 4.5 Contractors whose personnel work at heights are responsible for:  Ensuring workers tether their tools to prevent them from falling to a lower level;  Reporting all incidents involving fall of persons or objects, regardless of severity, to NYULH’s manager or PM and EH&S;  Implementing fall protection in accordance with the fall protection hierarchy; Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 5 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021  Providing the proper equipment for working at heights and ensuring workers are trained to use it;  Obtaining approval from NYULH for all active fall protection systems; and  If NYULH approves an active fall protection system: Providing a written site specific fall protection program; Identifying and providing evidence of training for the competent person and authorized persons who will be engaged in the work; Providing a detailed plan for prompt rescue if a worker falls and remains suspended; Scheduling a pre planning meeting, at least 1 week in advance, with NYULH’s PM and EH&S to ensure that all necessary equipment and protective measures are in place; and If contractor’s rescue plan relies solely on rescue by government agencies (e.g., FDNY or NYPD), formally notifying the agencies at least one week in advance and coordinating with them. 4.6 Employees who work at heights are responsible for:  Tethering their tools to prevent them from falling to a lower level;  Using all required fall protection;  Inspecting active fall protection system components and anchorage they are authorized to use prior to each use; and  Notifying their supervisors of any pertinent problems. 5.0 Requirements for passive fall protection systems 5.1 Vertical and horizontal fall protection systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with the manufacturers’ instructions under the supervision of a qualified person. Horizontal personnel netting systems shall be drop tested prior to use in accordance with the requirements in OSHA 1926.502. 5.2 Guardrail systems shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the requirements in OSHA 1926.502, and Chapter 33 of the NYC/NYS Building Code. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 6 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021 5.3 Openings in floors, roofs and other walking surfaces shall be covered with material capable of supporting twice the maximum anticipated load (e.g., of a mobile elevating work platform (MEWP)) on the floor. These covers shall be marked “hole” or “cover.” Openings greater than 4 feet by 4 feet shall be protected with a proper guardrail system, not a cover. 5.4 Personnel shall not remove passive fall protection systems (e.g., guardrail, scaffold, MEWP, vertical protection system), or raise their work level above them, without notifying their competent person. Where the work requires this, the competent person shall assess the situation and determine what additional fall protection measures shall be implemented. Any passive fall protection equipment that is removed in order to complete work shall be properly replaced prior to leaving the work area. 6.0 Requirements for active fall protection systems 6.1 A controlled access zone shall be established below locations where active fall protection systems are employed, and where a potential for falling objects exists. 6.2 All fall restraint and personal fall arrest system components (e.g., body harness, lanyard, lifeline, declaration device, anchorage connector, non structural anchorage point) shall be engineered and installed, inspected, used, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 6.3 All fall restraint and personal fall arrest system components shall be inspected daily prior to use by both the competent person and authorized person. Any damaged components shall be immediately removed from service. 6.4 Horizontal lifelines shall be designed, installed, and used under the supervision of a qualified person. 6.5 Where feasible, active fall protection system components (e.g., horizontal lifelines, anchor points) shall be installed on structural members prior to these members being installed. 6.6 Personal fall arrest systems shall be rigged in a manner which prevents a worker from free falling more than 6 feet and making contact with anything below his/her work surface. These systems shall also be equipped with an energy absorbing device which limits maximum arresting force to 900 pounds or less. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 7 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021 6.7 Each worker shall be secured to an independent lifeline (horizontal or vertical) unless the lifeline is specifically designed to support more than one person. 6.8 The anchorage for a personal fall arrest systems shall be independent of the anchorage for suspended platforms. 6.9 Knots shall not be tied in lifelines, lanyards, or other active fall protection system components. 6.10 Fall protection anchors installed in concrete and masonry shall be designed, and pull or drop tested by a qualified entity. 6.11 Chafing protection shall be used wherever fall restraint and personal fall arrest system components may come into contact with sharp edges. 6.12 Only shock absorbing lanyards shall be used. Lanyards shall be connected to the body harness D ring only. Lanyards shall not be tied back to themselves unless specifically designed for that purpose. Lanyards shall not be connected in series. Retractable lanyards shall be connected directly to the body harness D ring. Related NYULH Safety Policies 120: Construction Safety Requirements 138: Confined Space Entry 163: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Issue date 02/2021 Replaces 10/2019 Reviewed by R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH Brooklyn Safety Officer S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety A. John, Environmental Services B. Kenny, NYULH Long Island, Engineering D. Resnick, Design and Construction D. Rubbo, NYU LOH, Facilities Engineering NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 160 Policy: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Page 8 of 8 Revised: February 19, 2021 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes February 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Health Long Island 2.2 Adds ANSI Standard Throughout Minor changes to language September 2019 Reviewed by Adds NYU Winthrop review Application Updates logo and organizational references September 2017 2.0 Defines NYU Langone Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Safety Officer, and EOC Committees of NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone.


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 1 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To minimize the hazards associated with the use of ladders, scaffolds, and mobile elevating work platforms. To comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards 29 CFR 1910 subparts D and F and 29 CFR 1926 subparts L and X; New York State (NYS) Industrial Code Rule 23; and the NYS and New York City (NYC) Building Codes where applicable. POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by them. This policy applies to: • All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities • All employees and contractor personnel of NYULH 2.0 Definitions • Competent person means one who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings, or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to employees, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. • Mobile Elevating Work Platform (MEWP) means a machine or device intended for moving persons, tools, and material to work positions, consisting of at least a work platform with controls, an extending structure, and a chasis (e.g., scissor lift, articulating boom lift). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 2 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for: • Developing the policy and updating it as needed • Responding promptly to questions and concerns about the use of ladders, scaffolds, and MEWPs • Maintaining a list of consultants who can provide both training and competent/qualified persons relative to ladders, scaffolds, and MEWPs • Periodically evaluating the effectiveness of the policy and recommending changes as needed 3.2 Vice Presidents and Directors are responsible for compliance within their departments/divisions. 3.3 Managers, Foremen, Project Managers (PMs), and Contractors are responsible for: • Informing personnel about the requirements of this policy and enforcing policy requirements • Ensuring personnel receive training on the proper use of ladders, scaffolds, and MEWPs prior to use • Ensuring MEWPs receive required inspections, maintenance, and repairs • Ensuring personnel have the required fall protection equipment (e.g., full body harness and self retracting lifeline) and training on its proper use 3.4 Personnel who work with ladders, scaffolds and MEWPs are responsible for: • Following the requirements of this policy • Attending user training • Using fall protection equipment when required • Reporting work hazards to the competent person or person in charge 4.0 General Requirements • Ladders shall be used in accordance with manufacturers’ instructions, OSHA 1910 Subpart D, and OSHA 1926 Subpart X. • Scaffolding shall be erected, used, and disassembled in accordance with manufacturers’ instructions, OSHA 1926 Subpart L, and all state and local regulations. • MEWPs shall be used in accordance with the manufacturers’ instructions, OSHA 1910 Subpart F, and OSHA 1926 Subpart L, and: Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 3 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards A92.5 and A92.6 (until December 9, 2019) Industrial rope access and single point suspension scaffolds 5.0 Requirements for Ladders 5.1 All personnel who use ladders shall receive safety training. Training shall consist of recognition of hazards associated with ladder use, means of inspecting ladders, and safety precautions to be taken when using ladders. The FOCUS eLearning module, Safe Use of Extension Ladders, may be used as part of the training. 5.2 Where the task to be performed does not allow the worker to maintain 3 points of contact on the ladder, a more stable and protected work platform shall be used. 5.3 Personnel shall use the right size and type of ladder for the work being performed. Only ladders with a Type 1 (250 lb. limit) or Type 1A (300 lb. limit) rating shall be used. The capacity of the ladder (combination of the user’s weight and the tools, material, and equipment being carried) shall not be exceeded. 5.4 Due to the electrical hazard that metal ladders pose, only fiberglass or wood ladders shall be used. 5.5 Ladders shall be set up on a stable and level surface capable of supporting the anticipated load. 5.6 Personnel shall inspect each ladder prior to use. Damaged ladders shall be removed from service immediately and discarded. Personnel shall not attempt to repair a damaged ladder. 5.7 Ladders shall only be used by one worker at a time unless specifically designed to support multiple workers simultaneously. 5.8 A ladder shall not be moved with a worker on it. 5.9 Personnel shall face the ladder while ascending, descending, and working from it. 5.10 Workers shall not stand on the top two steps or rungs of a ladder. Exception: platform ladders 5.11 A frame ladders shall not be used in the closed position. Workers shall not sit atop or straddle an A frame ladder. 5.12 Extension ladders shall only be used with both sections joined together. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 4 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 5.13 Extension ladders shall be set up at the proper 4 to 1 angle, extend 3 feet above the level they are servicing, and be properly secured at the top to prevent movement. 5.14 Ladders shall not be positioned at building perimeters, leading edges, or other locations which create a significant fall exposure for the worker (see Safety Policy 160, Fall Prevention and Protection Program). 5.15 Portable ladders shall not be positioned in front of, or close to a door, unless the door is locked or a worker is present below to direct others. 5.16 In pedestrian areas, an exclusion zone shall be established around the bottom of the ladder to protect the worker and persons walking below. 5.17 Workers shall not lean out beyond a ladder’s side rails. 5.18 Workers shall not carry items in their hands while climbing up or down a ladder. 5.19 Ladders shall not be set up or used during wind or other adverse weather events; in close proximity to overhead power lines or unprotected electric sources; or where other hazards exist. 5.20 Workers shall only use ladders which belong to their employer. 5.21 Plan for installation or replacement of fixed ladders and stairs shall be reviewed and approved by facilities management (e.g., Facilities Operations or the Engineering Department) and EH&S. Unless otherwise specified, fixed ladders shall be installed at a 90 degree angle and fixed stairs shall be installed at a 30 to 50 degree angle. Fixed ladders and stairs shall comply with all OSHA 1910 subpart D requirements. 6.0 Requirements for Scaffolds 6.1 All personnel, including erectors and dismantlers, shall be protected against falls from scaffolds greater than 6 feet at all times in accordance with OSHA 1926 Subpart M (not Subpart L) and Safety Policy 160, Fall Prevention and Protection Program. 6.2 All supported scaffolds, including mobile frame and baker scaffolds, greater than 1 frame in height, shall have a guardrail system (e.g., top rail, mid rail, toe board) installed at all working levels. 6.3 Baker scaffolds greater than 2 frames in height shall have the manufacturer supplied outriggers installed, to prevent tipping. 6.4 The wheels on baker and mobile frame scaffolds shall be locked when the scaffolds are in use. 6.5 Baker and mobile frame scaffolds shall not be moved with personnel on them. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 5 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.6 If there is a gap of more than 14 inches between a supported scaffold and a structure, an inner guardrail system shall be installed to eliminate the fall hazard. 6.7 Each suspended scaffold user shall be tethered by rope grab to an independent vertical lifeline properly secured to a structural member or to an anchor point specifically designed for fall protection and has been pull tested. 6.8 Chafing protection shall be used wherever fall protection system components come into contact with sharp edges. 6.9 Where a parapet clamp is used as a fall protection anchor point, the clamp shall be specifically designed and rated for this purpose, have the required blocks, and be attached to a proper tieback cable to prevent movement. 6.10 A controlled access zone shall be established below scaffold work areas where the potential for falling material, equipment, or debris exists. All workers at height shall tether their tools. 6.11 All personnel who use a supported scaffold on a construction site, regardless of size, shall provide proof of training. In NYC, a valid 4 Hour Supported Scaffold User card is required. 6.12 All personnel who erect, modify, or dismantle a supported scaffold in excess of 40 feet shall provide proof of training. In NYC, a valid 32 Hour Supported Scaffold Installer & Remover card is required. 6.13 All personnel who work on a suspended scaffold shall provide proof of training. In NYC, a valid 16 Hour Suspended Scaffold User Card and a Certificate of Fitness from the DoB licensed Special Rigger by whom they are employed is required. 6.14 All suspended scaffold operations shall be supervised by a qualified rigging foreman. In NYC, the rigging foreman shall be registered with the DoB, have a valid 32 hour training card, and a designated Rigging Foreman card issued by the Special Rigger by whom they are employed. 6.15 Supported scaffolds in excess of 40 feet in height shall be designed by a NYS registered design professional. In NYC, they shall be approved by the DoB. Vertical netting attached to the scaffold shall be flame retardant and depicted on the drawing to ensure that the “sail effect” of the netting has been factored into its design. 6.16 Use of a building parapet to support a cornice (“C”) hook suspended scaffold or fall protection anchor requires a letter from a NYS licensed Professional Engineer (PE) attesting to the integrity of the parapet(s) from which they are to be hung. Use of outriggers to support a suspended scaffold requires PE drawings. In NYC, these drawings shall be approved by the NYC DoB. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 6 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.17 Where feasible, workers are to climb in and out of a suspended scaffold on the ground, a sidewalk bridge, a setback roof, or other adequately sized, flat surface with perimeter fall protection. Where a worker must climb through a window or over a parapet to access or exit a suspended scaffold, the worker shall be tied off during the entire process. 6.18 Prior to erecting a supported scaffold, an assessment of the surface on which it is to be set up shall be made in order to confirm that it can support the intended load. 6.19 Supported scaffold components shall be from a single manufacturer. Scaffold components shall be free of damage (e.g., cracks, dents, and excessive rust). 6.20 Scaffolds shall be plumb and level. 6.21 Supported scaffold frames shall be joined together with the manufacturer’s stacking pins (i.e., not with bolts or wire). The scaffold shall be properly tied back to the structure at the locations indicated on the PE drawing. 6.22 Supported scaffold platforms shall be fully planked with appropriate grade lumber or engineered scaffold planks. The planks shall properly overhang the scaffold supports and be secured against displacement. 6.23 An adequate number of stair towers shall be installed on stationary supported scaffolds to provide proper access for workers. Where it is determined by EH&S that installation of a stair tower is not feasible, access ladders shall be installed within the scaffold framing, with ladder sections offset at each level to eliminate a multi level fall hazard (see NYS Industrial Code Part 23). Workers shall not climb on cross bracing or scaffold framing (unless the frame is specifically designed for that purpose and meets OSHA 1926 Subpart L and X regulations). 6.24 Scaffolds shall not be loaded in excess of the manufacturer’s specifications or the limits set forth in the PE drawing. 6.25 Working platforms shall only be erected and occupied where permitted by the PE drawing. 6.26 Supported scaffolds shall be inspected daily prior to use by the contractor’s competent person. If the scaffold is suitable for use, the competent person shall initial the green tag posted at the base. A red tag shall be posted at the base of scaffolds under construction or otherwise not suitable for use. 6.27 Suspended scaffolds shall be inspected daily by the Rigging Foreman. A written log of these inspections shall be kept on site. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 7 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.28 Scaffolds shall not be erected, used, or disassembled during wind or other adverse weather events; in close proximity to overhead power lines or unprotected electrical sources; or where other hazards exist. 6.29 Industrial rope access and single point suspension scaffolds shall only be employed where safer alternatives (e.g. supported scaffold, two point and multi point suspension scaffolds) are determined to be infeasible. 7.0 Requirements for Mobile Elevating Work Platforms (MEWPs) 7.1 MEWPs used indoors shall be electric powered. Fuel powered MEWPs used outdoors shall meet the requirements of Safety Policy 120: Construction Safety Requirements. 7.2 Staff and contractor personnel shall receive safety training prior to using a MEWP. 7.3 Workers shall be positioned at the front and rear of a MEWP to lookout for pedestrians and vehicles during travel. 7.4 An adequate size exclusion zone shall be established at the base of the MEWP to protect persons walking below. No work shall be performed directly above or below the exclusion zone with the MEWP is in use. 7.5 Prior to using a MEWP: • An assessment of the area where it is to be set up shall be conducted to identify elevation changes, inclines, openings, and other hazards (e.g. subsurface voids) and to ensure that the surface can support the weight of the MEWP. • An inspection of the MEWP shall be completed. 7.6 On MEWPs that are so equipped, stabilizing devices (e.g. outriggers, expanding axles) shall be fully deployed at all times. 7.7 Any non structural ramp or platform that a MEWP will operate on or travel over shall be engineered to ensure that it can support the intended load. 7.8 MEWPs shall not be moved with the work platform elevated. 7.9 MEWPs shall not be loaded in excess of the limit set by the manufacturer (e.g., combined weight of worker(s) + equipment + materials). 7.10 All tools, material, and equipment shall be kept within the MEWP’s guardrail system. Tools shall be tethered to the worker or the MEWP. 7.11 MEWPs shall not be used as a crane or material hoist. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 8 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 7.12 Staff and contractor personnel using a MEWP (scissor and boom lift) shall wear a full body harness with a self retracting lifeline properly connected to a manufacturer supplied anchor point. 7.13 Personnel shall not stand or climb on MEWP toe boards or guard rails or use any items to increase their height above the work platform. 7.14 MEWPs shall not be operated where winds exceed the limit set by the manufacturer, during other adverse weather events (e.g., lighting, ice, fog), in close proximity to overhead power lines or exposed electric; or where other hazards exist. 7.15 Use of a MEWP to perform live electrical work or electric arc welding shall be pre approved by EH&S. 7.16 Maintenance, repairs, and modifications to a MEWP shall be performed by the facilities management (e.g., Facilities Operations or the Engineering Department) or contractor’s qualified vendor, not by staff or contractor personnel. 7.17 MEWPs shall not be used in close proximity to moving vehicles or powered mobile equipment. Special care shall be taken when operating a MEWP adjacent to an active roadway. Related Safety Policies 120: Construction Safety Requirements 160: Fall Prevention and Protection Program Issue date 03/2021 Replaces 10/2020 Reviewed by M. Ciferri, NYULH Brooklyn Facilities R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH Brooklyn Safety Officer B. Farrell, Real Estate S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety B. Kenny, NYULH LI, Engineering D. Resnick, Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Engineering NYULH Construction Safety Committee NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 9 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 Summary of Revisions Revision Date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island October 2020 1.0 Changes NYU School of Medicine to NYU Grossman School of Medicine 5.15 Specifies Portable Ladder September 2019 Throughout Changes Aerial Work Platform (AWP) to Mobile Elevating Work Platform (MEWP) Edits wording for clarity 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Defines MEWP 3.3 Adds responsibilities for equipment inspections, maintenance and repairs, and for training, and provision of fall protection equipment 3.4 Adds responsibility to use fall protection 4.0 Adds reference to ANSI standards 5.20 Adds reference to OSHA standard 6.21 Clarifies what is meant by proper access 6.29 Adds language about use of industrial rope access and single point suspension scaffolds 7.15 7.17 Adds new requirements Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 1.0 Formerly Section 2.0 2.0 Formerly Section 3.0 3.0 Formerly Section 4.0 4.0 Formerly Section 1.0 7.12 Adds use of an overhead structural member or other overhead anchor point meeting OSHA requirements October 2016 2.0 Adds employees of NYU Langone Health System 3.0 Adds examples of AWPs 5.16 5.19 New requirements for ladders 6.7, 6.14, 6.24, 6.25 New requirements for scaffolds 7.1, 7.3, 7.4, 7.7, 7.10 New requirements for AWPs 7.12, 7.14 Adds requirement to tie off in all AWPs using a full body harness and “shock absorbing” lanyard or “self retracting Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 163 Policy: Ladders, Scaffolds, and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Page 10 of 10 Revised: March 26, 2021 lifeline” secured to a lift anchor point or other OSHA approved overhead anchor point or structural member Adds “during other adverse weather events; in close proximity to overhead power lines or exposed electric; or where other hazards exist.” Reviewed by: Adds Lutheran personnel Summary of Revisions Adds summary


Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 1 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022APPLICATIONNYU Langone HealthPURPOSE•To protect employees and contractor personnel from exposure to the unexpected energizing or startup of equipment, or release of hazardous energy, during installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning•To establish practices and procedures to ensure safety during installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning of equipment, systems or processes where the unexpected energization, start up or release of stored energy could cause injury•To protect equipment and systems against damage which impact infrastructure and operations•To comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Control of Hazardous Energy (lockout/tagout) Standard, 29 CFR 1910.147, OSHA 1910 subpart S Electrical, OSHA 1926 subpart K Electrical and National Fire Protection Association standard 70e Standard for Electrical Safety in the WorkplacePOLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION1.0ApplicationNYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to:•All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities•All employees, contractors, vendors and consultants of NYULH2.0ScopeThis policy covers all equipment, machines and systems where uncontrolled hazardous energy has the potential to cause injury. Energy sources include electrical, mechanical (hydraulic, pneumatic), chemical, thermal (steam), gravity, electromagnetic fields, as well as other sources of energy. All NYULH personnel and contractors are required to comply with this policy. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 2 of 18Revised: 07/01/20223.0DefinitionsAffected worker An employee or contractor whose responsibilities require him/her to operate or use a machine, equipment or system on which servicing or maintenance is being performed under lockout or tagout, or whose job requires him/her to work in an area in which such servicing or maintenance is being performed.Authorized worker A person who has received training and has been given the authority and responsibility to lock out and tag out machines or equipment in order to perform servicing or maintenance. An affected worker becomes an authorized worker when that person's duties include performing maintenance or service on a machine or equipment that must be locked or tagged out.Capable of being locked out An energy isolating device is capable of being locked out if it has a hasp or other means of attachment to which, or through which, a lock can be affixed, or it has a locking mechanism built into it. Other energy isolating devices will be considered capable of being locked out, if lockout can be achieved without the need to dismantle, rebuild or replace the energy isolating device or permanently alter its energy control capability.Controlling contractor (Contractor) A prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for construction of the project (e.g. planning, quality and completion). Energized Connected to an energy source or containing residual or stored energy.Energy isolating device A mechanical device that physically prevents the transmission or release of energy including; but not limited to the following: a manually operated switch by which conductors of a circuit can be disconnected from all ungrounded supply connectors where no pole can be operated independently. Other examples include a slide gate, a slip blind, a line valve, a block, or any similar device used to block or isolate energy. This term does not include a push button, selector switch and other control circuit type devices.Energy source Any source of electrical, mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, chemical, nuclear, thermal, or other energy.Group Lock Box: A method of maintaining a lockout/tagout procedure when more than one person is involved. The lock box is used to store any keys used in the lockout/tagout procedure until the job is complete.Lockout The placement of a lockout device on an energy isolating device, ensuring that the energy isolating device and the equipment being controlled cannot be operated until the lockout device is removed.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 3 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022Lockout device A device that utilizes a positive means, such as a lock, either key or combination type, to hold an energy isolating device in a safe position and prevent the energizing of a machine or equipment.Primary Authorized Worker An authorized worker who has overall responsibility for meeting the requirements of the lockout/tagout procedures when working in a group. The Primary Authorized Worker will attach a lock and tag when the equipment is de energized before work begins and will be the last person to remove their lock and tag when the job is completed.Servicing and/or maintenance Workplace activities such as setting up, adjusting, inspecting, modifying, and maintaining and/or servicing machines or equipment. These activities may include, but not limited to the removal of fixed guards, equipment or parts lubrication, cleaning or un jamming of machines or equipment and making adjustments or tool changes, where the worker may be exposed to the unexpected energization or start up of the equipment or hazardous release of energy.Tagout The placement of a tagout device on an energy isolating mechanism to indicate that the energy isolating device and the equipment being controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is removed.Tagout device A prominent warning device, such as a tag, which can be securely fastened to an energy isolating device to indicate that the energy isolating device and the equipment being controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is removed. The tagout device will include the worker’s name and date applied.4.0Responsibilities4.1EH&S provides oversight of the control of hazardous energy program and will:a.Provide consultation and assistance to departments to comply with the requirements of this program and planning of work which has the potential to release hazardous energy b. Assist with the coordination of required training.c.Assist in the investigation of accidents or near miss events involving the release of hazardous energy.d. Conduct periodic audits of the program to assess overall effectiveness 4.2The Facilities/Engineering and Real Estate departments, responsible for oversight of the installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning of equipment, systems and processes with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous energy must establish procedures to:Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 4 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022a.Where required (see section 5.2), ensure that specific visual and written lockout/tagout procedures for the servicing and maintenance of machines, equipment, systems or processes have been developed and periodically inspected and to ensure their immediate availability to authorized workers.b. Maintain a current inventory of all machines, equipment and processes that require implementation of lockout/tagout procedures. c.Ensure that machines, equipment or processes that are newly installed or have undergone major repair, renovation or modifications are designed to accept a lockout device.d. Ensure the immediate availability of required equipment such as locks, tags, chains, lockout devices, personal protective equipment (PPE) when lockout/tag out procedures are required.e.Ensure that all authorized workers who will be required to implement lockout/tagout procedures are provided training as required by this policy.f.Ensure that their contractors/vendors are informed of the lockout/tagout procedures applicable to their project(s) scope. g. Maintain records including equipment and system manufacturer documents, appropriate documentation of periodic inspections, specific lockout/tagout procedures and training.h. Monitor ongoing compliance with this policy. 4.3The RED+F Design and Construction department, including Project Management (PMs), responsible for oversight of the installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning of equipment and systems with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous emergency shall: a.Ensure that newly installed or modified equipment or systems can accept a lockout device and where required (see section 5.2), have a visual and written lockout/tagout procedure developed and postedb. Ensure that their contractors and vendors are aware of the requirements of this policy and the NYULH Utility Shutdown policy. c.Ensure that their contractor, subcontractors or vendors have a lockout/tagout program, procedure, training and devices. d. Provide manufacturer’s documentation for new systems and equipment to Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate or building management. e.Plan work on equipment and systems with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous energy with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate or building management, and EH&S. 4.4Safety Officers, Facilities/Engineering Managers and Real Estate Tenant Coordinators are responsible for:a.Attending and actively participating in training as required by this program.b. Understanding when equipment and systems need to be locked and tagged out for service and maintenance.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 5 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022c.Collaborating with authorized workers and facilitating energy control procedures, including the notification of affected personnel.d. Participate in the planning of work on equipment and systems with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous energy. 4.5Managers/Supervisors of personnel who work on energized machines, equipment, systems or processes must:a.Identify and maintain a list of authorized workers under their supervision.b. Where required (see section 5.2), conduct and document periodic inspections to ensure that lockout/tagout procedures are properly developed, implemented and maintained.c.Ensure that required lockout/tagout equipment is available, properly maintained and used.d. Qualify as an authorized worker and approve authorized workers under their direction.e.Plan work on equipment and systems with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous energy with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate or building management, and EH&S. f.Participate in the investigation of accidents and near miss events.g. Continually evaluate the need for employee re education and training and document training in accordance with this policy.4.6Contractors/Vendors are responsible for:a.Providing NYULH with information regarding their energy control program and the procedures and evidence of training for authorized workersb. Providing the PM or Manager with manufacturer documents for newly installed systems and equipment. c.Providing their own energy isolation equipment including locks, tags, and hasps for equipment they bring on site.d. Adhering to the requirements of this program, the NYULH Utilities Shutdown policy and other applicable and related NYULH policies. e.Preparing a step by step Method of Procedure (MoP) including backout plan, and planning all work on equipment and systems with the potential for unexpected release of hazardous energy with RED+F Design and Construction, Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate or building management, and EH&S.4.7All persons who work on or around energized machines, equipment, systems or processes must:a.Attend and actively participate in training sessions.b. Demonstrate comprehension and understanding of the lockout/tagout program as it applies to their work and specific roles.c.Read and understand the lockout/tagout procedure for the equipment or system prior to performing work. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 6 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022d. Follow lockout/tagout procedures during the servicing and maintenance of energized machines, equipment or processes.e.Immediately report injuries, near miss events or any other unsafe condition to their supervisor.5.0Procedures5.1Requirements for Written Lockout/Tagout ProceduresExcept where indicated in section 5.2 below, specific procedures shall be developed, documented (i.e., written) and utilized for the control of potentially hazardous energy when workers are engaged in the installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning of equipment as defined in this policy. Such procedures shall clearly and specifically outline the scope, purpose, authorizations, rules, and techniques to be utilized for the control of hazardous energy, and the means to enforce compliance. Lockout/tagout procedures shall include, but not limited to:a.A specific statement of the intended use of the procedure.b. Specific procedural steps for shutting down, isolating, blocking and securing machines or equipment to control hazardous energy.c.Specific procedural steps for the placement, removal and transfer of lockout devices or tagout devices and the responsibility for them.d. Specific requirements for testing a machine or equipment to determine and verify the effectiveness of lockout devices, tagout devices, and other energy control measures.▪One energy control procedure may be developed and used for similar machines, equipment or processes if the procedure adequately addresses the unexpected energization hazards related to each machine, equipment or process.5.2Limited Exemption for ProceduresLockout/Tagout procedures need not be documented/written for a particular machine or equipment, when ALL of the following elements exist:a.The machine or equipment has no potential for stored or residual energy or re accumulation of stored energy after shut down which could endanger workers.b. The machine or equipment has a single energy source which can be readily identified and isolated.c.The isolation and locking out of that single energy source shall completely de energize and deactivate the machine or equipment.d. The machine or equipment is always isolated from that single energy source and locked out during servicing or maintenance.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 7 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022e.A single lockout device shall achieve a lockout condition.f.The lockout device is under the exclusive control of the authorized worker performing the servicing or maintenance.g. The servicing or maintenance does not create hazards for other workers. h. The department responsible for the machine or equipment, in utilizing this exception, has had no accidents involving the unexpected activation or re energization of the machines, equipment or processes during servicing or maintenance work.5.3Periodic Inspections of ProceduresWhere a written energy control procedure is required for a machine or equipment (see exception in section 5.2), a periodic inspection of that written procedure shall be conducted and documented at least annually by the Manager/Supervisor or designee. The purpose of the periodic inspections shall be to ensure the procedures are accurate and performed correctly by the authorized workers. The following requirements shall be complied with when performing the review. a.The inspection must include a representative sample for each energy source. Machines, equipment, systems or processes that utilize the same lockout/tagout procedures do not have to be inspected individually.b. The inspection shall include a review, between the inspector and EACH AUTHORIZED WORKER, of that worker’s responsibilities under the energy control procedure being inspected.c.The inspection must be documented, at least annually, using the “Lockout Periodic Inspection Form” (Appendix A). Any deviations or inadequacies shall be noted and corrected.d. The Manager/Supervisor shall correct and inform the authorized worker(s) of any deviations or inadequacies that were observed. e.The Manager/Supervisor shall retain the inspection forms on site and make them available for review upon request.5.4Application and Removal of Lockout/Tagout Controls General The following general procedures shall be followed for all installation, commissioning, servicing, maintenance or decommissioning of machines, equipment, systems or processes in which the unexpected energization, start up or release of stored energy could cause injury:a. Prior to beginning any work, the supervisor and authorized worker(s) shall have specific knowledge and information on the type and magnitude of energy, the hazards of the energy to be controlled, and the method or means to control the energy and how to safely release all stored energy, including powering off the machine, equipment, system Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 8 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022or process.NOTE: Back up energy sources, such as emergency generators, must be treated as energy sources.b. The supervisor shall assign an authorized worker(s) with the appropriate training, authority and responsibility to perform specific lockout/tagout task(s).c.The authorized worker(s) shall review and understand all lockout/tagout procedures prior to performing any work. Specific procedures must be established and readily available for all individual or same types of machines, equipment, systems or processes (see section 5.2 for limited exemptions). d. The authorized worker shall instruct all affected workers and any other worker(s) or department administrator impacted by the lockout/tagout procedures about the purpose and impact of the lockout/tagout. They shall also provide the affected workers and the appropriate department representative(s) with a contact for questions or concerns related to the lockout/tagout procedure(s). e.The machine, equipment, system or process shall be turned off by the authorized worker using the procedures established for the machine, equipment or system. NOTE: Affected workers shall be notified before the controls are applied, and after they are removed from the machine or equipment.f.The machine, equipment system or process shall be isolated from the energy source(s) using appropriate isolating devices, such as by closing valves, turning off circuits, etc. Back up energy sources must also be isolated if they do not share the same valve, circuit, etc.g. An appropriate lockout device (in accordance with the established written visual lockout/tagout procedure for that piece of equipment) shall be affixed to the energy source such that the isolating device will be held in a safe or neutral position. If a lockout device(s) cannot be directly affixed to the energy isolating device, alternate methods shall be established and implemented so that a lockout device(s) can be effectively applied. h. Each worker or group working on the machine, equipment, system or process shall apply his/her individual lockout device. If the machine, Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 9 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022equipment, system or process cannot be locked out, please refer to Section 7.5: “Procedures when equipment cannot be locked out”.i.The authorized worker(s) shall ensure that the energy isolating device is marked or labeled to identify the machine, equipment, system or process supplied and the type and magnitude of the energy being controlled, unless they are so positioned or arranged that those elements are evident.j.A tagout device shall be affixed to the locking device, energy source, or as close as possible to the device if it cannot be affixed directly. The tagout device must be affixed in such a manner that it will clearly indicate that the operation or movement of the energy isolating device from the "SAFE", "OFF" or "CLOSED" position is prohibited.k. After the lockout/tagout devices have been applied, all potentially hazardous stored or residual energy shall be relieved, disconnected, restrained, or otherwise rendered safe by bleeding, draining, discharging, disconnecting, etc. The authorized worker(s) shall ensure that all workers are clear of the area surrounding the machine, equipment, system or process prior to releasing the stored energy.NOTE: The authorized worker(s) and supervisor shall be familiar with what to expect when the stored or residual energy is released and the effect(s) of releasing the stored energy will have on the machine, equipment, system or process prior to releasing the stored energy. The machine or equipment and personnel shall be properly positioned prior to releasing the stored energy.l.The authorized worker(s) shall verify that the machine or equipment is isolated by attempting to operate the machine or equipment by checking switches, valves, etc. The authorized worker(s) shall ensure the area surrounding the machine, equipment, system or process is clear of all unauthorized workers prior to verification.m. If there is a possibility of re accumulation of stored energy, verification of isolation by checking the on/off switch or other equivalent means shall continue until the activity is completed, or until the possibility of such accumulation no longer exists.NOTE: The authorized worker(s) shall ensure that all workers are safely clear of the work area and not at risk prior to verification.n. Servicing and maintenance work on the machine or equipment may then be Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 10 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022performed.o. Where service or maintenance of a machine or equipment requires more than one authorized worker, a group lockout/tagout procedure (see section 7.2) is employed and, the primary authorized worker must leave the work area, another authorized worker shall be given the primary authority and responsibility for the work assignment. The procedures for personnel changes shall be followed (see Section 7.3). If another authorized worker is unavailable to assume the primary role, all work shall cease and all affected or impacted worker(s) and department(s) shall be notified. The lockout/tagout procedure shall be repeated in its entirety upon returning to the work area.p. When the work is completed, the authorized worker(s) shall ensure the following procedures are followed:1. Ensure that all components are operationally intact.2. Clear the machine or equipment of all non essential tools and materials.3. Ensure that all workers are safely positioned or removed.4. Verify that machine controls are in neutral to prevent movement upon re energization.5. Replace machine or equipment guards, if appropriate. 6. Before starting the machine/equipment, inform all affected workers and appropriate area managers that work has been completed and the estimated time at which lockout/tagout devices will be removed.7. Remove the lockout and tagout device(s). Note: Each individual or group shall remove his/her own lockout and tagout device.8. Energize the machine, equipment, system or process and notify appropriate managers/affected departments that the equipment and area has been returned to operational condition.q. Any time the authorized worker(s) leaves the work area or the servicing or maintenance work will require more than 1 shift to complete, the authorized worker(s) must repeat the lockout/tagout procedures. The authorized worker(s) must repeat the procedures each time they return/arrive on site to perform additional work.r.Managers/Supervisors may require additional procedures to perform a specific lockout/tagout assignment. Each manager/supervisor shall be responsible for appropriately communicating the additional procedures/requirements to their authorized workers. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 11 of 18Revised: 07/01/20226.0Lockout/Tagout Devices6.1General Requirements for DevicesEach lockout and tagout device shall be uniquely identified; shall be the only device(s) used for controlling hazardous energy; shall not be used for other purposes; and shall meet the following requirements:a. Lockout and tagout devices, including their means of attachment, shall be capable of withstanding the environment to which they are exposed for the maximum period of time that exposure is expected.b. Lockout and tagout devices shall be standardized within the facility in at least one of the following criteria: color, shape, size, or specific markings; additionally, in the case of tagout devices, print and format shall be standardized. NOTE: Proposed lockout/tagout devices to be used by contractor/vendor personnel in active facility machine rooms shall be reviewed with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate or building management. c. Lockout and tagout devices, including their means of attachment, shall be substantial enough to prevent inadvertent or accidental removal without the use of excessive force or destructive techniques.d. Lockout and tagout devices shall indicate the identity of the authorized worker applying the device.e. Tagout devices shall be constructed and printed so that exposure to weather conditions, wet and damp locations or corrosive environments will not cause the tag to deteriorate or the message on the tag to become illegible.f.Tagout devices shall warn against hazardous conditions if the machine or equipment is energized and shall include a legend such as one of the following: “Do Not Start,” or “Do Not Operate.” 6.2Personal Locks and TagsA personal lock is a key lock that is assigned to a specific authorized worker. The only worker allowed to use the lock is the authorized worker that it’s assigned to. A set of 3 personal locks shall be issued to each authorized worker after successful completion of authorized training. Only one key will be issued per lock. Any other key shall be destroyed. Facilities/Real Estate shall develop a process to maintain an accounting of the locks issued to each authorized worker. An authorized worker shall notify their Department Supervisor if they lose the key to their lock. The old lock must be recovered and discarded and a new lock and key issued to the authorized worker. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 12 of 18Revised: 07/01/20226.3Shift Change Locks and TagsA Shift Change lock is a key lock used on equipment, systems or processes when they are not actively being serviced. Key control or access must be limited to a small, closely controlled group of authorized workers. This lock must not be used as a personal lock and may never be used when actively servicing the equipment. The shift change procedure is outlined in Section 7.3 of this program. The type of Shift Change locks and tags are listed below: ▪Color Coded by Department and individually keyed▪Out of Service Tag or Do Not Operate Tag6.4General Locks and TagsA general lock is a key lock that is not assigned to an individual worker as a personal lock. This lock has only one key and master keys are not made available. This lock may be used to lock out individual energy isolating devices as part of the group lockout process. The group lockout process is outlined in Section 7.4 of this program. The type of General locks and tags are listed below:▪Single Key Color Coded by Department▪Single Use Card Stock Lockout Tag6.5 Protective Material and HardwareEach Department, contractor and vendor falling within the scope of this policy shall provide the tools and hardware necessary to isolate and secure the hazardous energy of the machines or equipment to be serviced. These tools may include breaker devices, gate valve devices, ball valve devices, adapter pins, self locking fasteners, lockable plugs, preventers, etc. Each Department covered by this policy shall be responsible for identifying and informing authorized workers of the location and process to obtain devices.7.0Special Procedures7.1Removal of a Lockout Device by Another PersonUnauthorized removal of locks and tags is prohibited. When an authorized worker is not available to remove his/her own personal lock, the steps included below must be performed by the supervisor of the authorized worker or the supervisor’s designee. (Note: The supervisor’s designee must be qualified as an authorized worker) a. Verify that the authorized worker is not on site and not available to remove his/her own lock. b. Verify that workers are not exposed to hazards and are at safe locations.c. Verify that the equipment is safe to operate, tools have been removed, and guards have been replaced.d. Remove lock/tag and energize equipment or designate another authorized worker to complete the job. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 13 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022e. If equipment will be re energized, supervisor or designee shall remain with equipment while equipment is being restarted.f.Notify affected workersg. Document the removal using the “Lock Removal Notice” (Appendix B). Completed forms shall be retained by the authorized worker’s department. The frequency of lock removals shall be periodically evaluated to determine if corrective action is needed. 7.2Group LockoutMachines, equipment, systems, process and circuits may require servicing and/or maintenance by more than one authorized worker. Each authorized worker performing service and/or maintenance must apply his/her personal lock. Every authorized worker who applies a personal lock shall verify that the machine, equipment, system, process or circuit has attained a zero energy state or observe the verification process.a. Multiple lock application may be accomplished using:▪Multiple lock devices (hasps) that accommodate several personal locks;▪The use of general locks and a lock box. For example, if a machine with multiple energy sources is going to be serviced by multiple personnel, it may be useful to use general locks at the energy sources. Keys for the general locks are held in lock boxes to which employees attach their personal locks.b.Group Lock Box Process▪If a group lockbox is used for the maintenance or servicing task, a “Primary Authorized Worker” shall be designated by the Manager/Supervisor performing the lockout and responsible for the workers under the protection of the group lockout. ▪When more than one trade, contractor, vendor or department is involved, the responsibility of the overall lockout/tagout control shall be assigned to an authorized worker designated by the department supervisor or PM with the overall responsibility for the job.▪The Primary Authorized Worker(s) shall follow the notification, shutdown and lockout steps and then place all keys to the group locks into a group lockbox. They shall then affix his/her personal lock on the group lockbox.▪All of the authorized workers conducting maintenance or servicing on the equipment must verify/be shown by the Primary Authorized Worker that the machine was locked out and hazardous energy controlled appropriately and then affix their individual locks to the group lockbox until their portion of work is completed.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 14 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022▪The Primary Authorized Worker(s) shall be the last person(s) to remove their lock from the group lockbox. They shall then remove the group locks in accordance with the steps for restoring energy.7.3Shift or Personnel ChangesWhere servicing or maintenance is performed by more than one authorized worker, specific procedures shall be utilized during shift or personnel changes to ensure the continuity of lockout protection. This includes provisions for the orderly transfer of lockout devices between off going and on coming authorized workers. There are two distinct methods of shift or personnel change lockout transition that may be implemented. These methods should never be mixed or combined.a. Method 1: The immediate hand off of LOTO in progress. This is the preferred method of transfer. Authorized worker(s) of the outgoing shift removes personal lock and tag as the authorized worker(s) of the next shift simultaneously applies and secures a personal lock and tag on the same energy isolating device. The oncoming shift worker(s) must re verify that a zero energy state exists in the system.b. Method 2: Application of Shift Change Locks. Authorized workers use this method when servicing and/or maintenance continues over multiple shifts, but there is no immediate hand off of lockout in progress. The steps are listed below:▪The authorized worker that was performing servicing and/or maintenance signs out a shift change lock/tag from the lockout cabinet by completing the “Shift Change Lock Checkout Form” (Appendix C). ▪The authorized worker that was performing servicing and/or maintenance places a shift change lock/tag on the energy isolation points. ▪The authorized worker that was performing servicing and/or maintenance removes his/her personal lock/tag. ▪The key to the shift change lock shall go back in to the lockout cabinet and be placed where the lock was. ▪The shift change lock(s)/tag(s) shall remain in place until the next authorized worker arrives to continue the work. ▪The next authorized worker to work on the equipment (second authorized worker) obtains the key from the lockout cabinet, places their locks/tags on the energy isolation points and then removes the shift change locks/tags and returns to the cabinet and signs them back in on the “Shift Change Lock Check out Form”.▪The authorized worker shall then verify “zero” energy state by testing and trying to restart the equipment.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 15 of 18Revised: 07/01/20227.4Procedures when equipment cannot be locked outNote: Live electrical work shall only be performed by qualified and NFPA 70e trained electrical personnel utilizing required personal protective equipment and protective measures. Live electrical work in excess of 480v shall be planned as indicated below. The following procedures must be used when equipment, machines, systems or process(es) with hazardous energy cannot be locked out: a. The Manager/Supervisor or PM shall plan this work with the authorized facilities trade staff or contractor/vendor personnel, Facilities/ Engineering, Real Estate or building management, and EH&S. Every feasible option for locking out the equipment shall be considered before moving forward with other non lockout options.b. Additional safety procedures shall be implemented to reduce the likelihood of inadvertent energization, i.e. removal of an isolating circuit element, blocking of a control switch, removal of a valve handle.c. The tagout of the energy isolating device(s) must provide equivalent protection as a lockout device would provide.d. The energy isolating device should be within view of the authorized worker(s) or the “buddy” system or another additional safety procedure must be used.7.5Testing and PositioningWhen power must be temporarily restored to a machine or system to test or position the machine, equipment or components, the following sequence of actions shall be followed. This procedure is for ONLY for adjustments and observations that can be made without placing workers at risk or coming into contact with energy sources. This shall be verified and documented as part of that machine/equipment’s specific lockout/tagout procedure and must be verified at least annually.a. Clear the machine or equipment of tools and materials.b. Notify all affected workers that the lockout/tagout device(s) are being removed and ensure that they are safely positioned or cleared from the area.c. Remove the lockout device as specified in the lockout removal section of this procedure.d. Energize and proceed with testing or positioning.e. When testing or positioning is completed, de energize all systems, verify and reapply the energy control measures.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 16 of 18Revised: 07/01/20228.0Training8.1Authorized WorkersAuthorized Workers must have the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe application, use, and removal of energy isolating devices. Each authorized worker must be able to safely perform the work required by any energy control procedure that they may be called upon to use, however rarely. All workers (including supervisors) authorized to perform lockout/tagout procedures shall be trained in the following:a. Recognition of hazardous energy sources.b. Type and magnitude of energy sources associated with machinery or equipment on which they will work.c. Energy control procedures including means and methods of isolating and/or controlling energy.d. Means of verification of effective energy control.e. Where to obtain written lockout/tagout procedures and copies of this policy.8.2Affected WorkersAffected Workers are workers (e.g., machine operators and material handling specialists) who do not implement energy control procedures but are assigned to operate or interact with machines that are serviced and maintained pursuant to energy control procedures. It also includes those employees who are assigned to work in areas where energy control procedures are utilized to service or maintain machinery. Affected employee training must include the following:a. General awareness of this policy’s scope and purposeb. How to recognize lockout/tagout devicesc. How to recognize when energy control procedures are being usedd. Importance of not tampering with lockout/tagout devicese. Importance of not starting or using equipment that has been locked out or tagged outNOTE: The Manager or PM shall obtain evidence of control of hazardous energy and lockout/tagout training from the contractor or vendor to perform work. 8.3Other worker training (i.e. lockout/tagout awareness training)All other workers who may be in areas where energy control procedures may be utilized must receive training on this policy’s scope and purpose, general information on energy control procedures and their importance, and the prohibition against removing a lockout/tagout device and attempting to re start, re energize, or operate machinery involved in a lockout/tagout procedure.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 17 of 18Revised: 07/01/20228.4Training Frequencya. Training of authorized and affected workers must be provided initially and prior to performing any work that requires use or understanding of lockout/tagout procedures. b. Refresher Training: Retraining is required if a periodic inspection reveals, or a supervisor/manager has reason to believe, that there have been deviations from the application of the energy control procedure or inadequacies in a worker’s knowledge of or use the energy control procedure. Additionally, retraining must be provided for authorized and affected workers whenever there is a:▪Change in job assignment▪Change in machine, equipment, or process that present a new hazard▪Change in the lockout/tagout procedures9.0Out of Service EquipmentEquipment that must be locked out because it is out of service and is not being serviced or maintained is not part of the lockout program. All locks and tags used for out of service equipment shall be different and easily distinguished from the locks and tags identified in the lockout/tagout program. Out of Service equipment monitoring and management shall be the responsibility of the Department Manager/Head to which the equipment is assigned.10.0Contractors/VendorsWhenever contract/vendor personnel are to be engaged in activities covered by the scope and purpose of this program, the Manager or PM contracting and overseeing the vendor (e.g., Facilities, Real Estate, RED+F Design and Construction) shall ensure that they are informed of and comply with the requirements of this program and plan their work including providing an MoP, their written lockout/tagout program and evidence of training for their personnel and any subcontractor personnel.Related NYULH Safety Policies120: Construction Safety Requirements138: Confined Space Entry157: Electrical Safety169: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownAppendix ALockout Periodic Inspection FormAppendix BLock Removal NoticeAppendix CShift Change Lock Check out FormAppendix DLockout Isolation Procedures ChecklistSafety Policy ManualPolicy No. 167Policy: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)Page 18 of 18Revised: 07/01/2022Issue date07/2022ReplacesNew Reviewed byD. Bensimon, Facilities OperationsJ. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant ManagementM. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities Operations R. Cohen, Facilities OperationsW. Dempsey, NYULH LI Safety OfficerN. Ejaz, NYULH B, Safety OfficerB. Farrell, NYULH RED+F Real EstateM. Figueroa, Environmental Health & SafetyD. Lilly, Facilities OperationsB. Lorino, Facilities OperationsD. Resnick, RED+F Design and ConstructionD. Rubbo, NYULOH, EngineeringNYU Langone Health Construction Safety CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC CommitteeFamily Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC CommitteeSummary of RevisionsRevision dateSectionChangesSafety Policy 167, APPENDIX ALOCKOUT PERIODIC INSPECTION FORMEH&S June 29, 2022Instructions:This periodic inspection/certification shall be conducted to ensure the procedures are accurate and performed correctly by the authorized workers. The machine specific procedure must be followed when performing the inspection to ensure it is accurate. This inspection must be performed by an authorized worker other than the one(s) utilizing the energy control procedure being inspected. Equipment Name/ID #Date:Authorized Workers Being InspectedNameSignature1.2.3.4.5.6.PASSY/NSteps for Machine ShutdownNotify affected workers that the machine is about to be shut down and locked out. Shut down the machine using normal stopping procedure (i.e. activate the stop button, etc.).Isolate all energy sources by closing, blanking and blinding, or otherwise turning switches/disconnects to the “OFF” or “CLOSED” position.Apply locks, tags, and/or devices to the energy disconnects for each energy source present.Check that all moving parts have stopped. Relieve or disconnect any residual hazardous energy that could be present.Verify zero energy state. Attempt to restart at all activating controls, start buttons, etc. and return them to the “off” position.Steps for Restoring EnergyCheck for others. Check the area surrounding the shut off unit to assure that no one will be exposed to danger when that machine is started up. Notify all affected workers that locks/tags are going to be removed and the machine is ready for operation.Remove LOTO equipment. Test the machine. Perform any necessary testing of the restored machine to ensure it is in operable condition.Notify management that work is completed and the area has been returned to operational condition.Safety Policy 167, APPENDIX ALOCKOUT PERIODIC INSPECTION FORMEH&S June 29, 2022Is the equipment specific procedure accurate? Yes No If no, list deficiencies:Other Comments: Inspector Name:Inspector Signature:Safety Policy 167, APPENDIX BLOCK REMOVAL NOTICEEH&S June 29, 2022To be completed by the Supervisor/Manager requesting lock removal.Worker Name:Date:Badge Number:Shift:Lock Location/Asset:Lock Number:This process must be followed when the authorized worker who applied the lockout device is NOT available to remove it.Yes/NoDescribeI have verified that the authorized worker is not on site and available to remove his or her own lock.I have checked that workers are not exposed to hazards.I have verified that the equipment is safe to operate, tools have been removed, and guards have been replaced.I have notified all affected workers that the lock will be removed.I have removed the lock/tag.I will remain with the equipment until it is determined to be in a safe working condition.I will ensure that the authorized worker knows that his or her lockout device(s) has been removed before he or she resumes work.Supervisor/Manager Signature:___________________Date: _________Safety Policy 167, APPENDIX CSHIFT CHANGE LOCK CHECK OUT FORMEH&S June 29, 2022Lock NumberChecked Out By Date Checked OutEquipmentEquipment Status Date ReturnedReturned BySafety Policy 167, APPENDIX DLOCKOUT ISOLATION PROCEDURE CHECKLISTEH&S June 29, 2022Energy SourceIsolation MethodLocationIsolation Technique LOTO DeviceVerification MethodElectricalSteamPneumaticGravityHydraulicChemicalDisconnect BreakerValve: __________Other: __________ElectricalSteamPneumaticGravityHydraulicChemicalDisconnect BreakerValve: __________Other: __________ElectricalSteamPneumaticGravityHydraulicChemicalDisconnect BreakerValve: __________Other: __________ElectricalSteamPneumaticGravityHydraulicChemicalDisconnect BreakerValve: __________Other: __________ Special Considerations:SourceControl MethodEvaluator Name: _______________________________Evaluator Signature: ______________________________Authorized Worker Signatures (Must review procedure and verify isolation)XXXXXXEquipment Name:Equipment Identification:Location Creation Date:Safety Policy 167, APPENDIX DLOCKOUT ISOLATION PROCEDURE CHECKLISTEH&S June 29, 2022LOCKOUT/TAGOUT PROCEDUREPurposeTo ensure that a machine or piece of equipment is isolated from all potentially hazardous energy before workers perform servicing or maintenance activities where the unexpected energization, start up, or release of stored energy could cause injury.ScopeWorkplace activities such as setting up, adjusting, inspecting, modifying, and maintaining and/or servicing machines or equipment. These activities may include, but not limited to the removal of fixed guards, equipment or parts lubrication, cleaning or un jamming of machines or equipment and making adjustments or tool changes, where the worker may be exposed to the unexpected energization or start up of the equipment or hazardous release of energy.EnforcementFailure to properly follow lockout/tagout procedures may result in corrective action.SHUTDOWN, LOCK, TAG & TEST PROCEDURE STEPS1Notify WorkersNotify all affected workers that servicing or maintenance is required on a machine or equipment, and that the machine or equipment must be shut down and locked out to perform the servicing or maintenance.2Review Lockout ProcedureThe authorized worker shall review the procedure to identify the type and magnitude of the energy that the machine or equipment utilizes, shall understand the hazards of the energy, and shall know the methods to control the energy.3Perform Machine StopIf the machine or equipment is operating, shut it down by the normal stopping procedure (depress the stop button, open switch, close valve, etc.). Reference machine operating procedure for normal shutdown.4Isolate EnergyFollow the lockout/tagout procedure located on the first page of this procedure.5Lockout EnergyLockout/tagout as required the energy isolating device(s) with assigned individual lock(s) and tag(s). If the lock(s) need to be transferred to another workers, follow the policy procedure for authorized workers transfer.6Dissipate EnergyStored or residual energy (such as that in capacitors, springs, elevated machine members, rotating flywheels, hydraulic systems, as well as air, gas, steam, or water pressure, etc.) must be dissipated or restrained by methods such as grounding, repositioning, blocking, bleeding down, etc.7Attempt RestartEnsure that the equipment is disconnected from the energy sources by first checking that no personnel are exposed, then verify the isolation of the equipment by operating the push button or other normal operating controls or by testing to make certain the equipment will not operate. Caution: Return operating controls to neutral or "off" position after verifying the isolation of the equipment.Safety Policy 167, APPENDIX DLOCKOUT ISOLATION PROCEDURE CHECKLISTEH&S June 29, 2022RETORE TO SERVICE STEPS1Check MachineCheck the machine or equipment and the immediate area around the machine to ensure that non essential items have been removed and that the machine or equipment components are operationally intact.2Check AreaCheck the work area to ensure that all workers have been safely positioned or removed from the area.3Verify MachineVerify that the controls are in neutral, i.e., not in an active or production state where energization will permit the machine to function as intended.4Remove LockoutRemove the locks, tags and lockout devices and reenergize the machine or equipment. In reverse order, follow all of the steps from the procedure found on the previous page.5Notify Workers Notify affected workers that the servicing or maintenance is completed and the machine or equipment is ready for use.


Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 1 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022APPLICATIONNYU Langone HealthPURPOSETo provide a written plan of action for planned and/or emergency shutdowns of utility systems and essential equipment. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION1.0 POLICYThis policy outlines procedure and actions that shall be implemented for any planned or emergency utility and/or essential equipment shutdowns affecting patient care or other essential services. Facilities/Engineering at each campus and Real Estate shall take the lead in planning, coordinating and assessing all potential risks associated with a planned and/or emergency utility or essential equipment shutdown. 2.0 APPLICATIONNYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: •All NYULH owned and leased facilities •All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH3.0 DEFINITIONSControlling contractor (Contractor): A prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for construction of the project (e.g. planning, quality, and completion)Facilities trade staff: Includes forepersons, mechanics, helpers, maintenance workers, etc. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 2 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022Manager: The Facilities/Engineering Manager or Real Estate ManagerPM: The NYULH construction Project Manager4.0SCOPEUtility systems and essential equipment include, but are not limited to the following:•Medical gas and vacuum systems•Major heating ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment•Fire suppression system •Boilers and steam supply systems•Electrical supply and distribution systems•Domestic hot and cold water supply systems•All sanitary waste disposal systems•Heating and hot water systems•Emergency generator and fuel systems•Elevators •OT Operational Technology Systems (e.g. BMS, lighting control, etc.)5.0UTILITY SHUTDOWN RESPONSIBILITIESIn preparation for all planned utility shutdowns, the Construction PM or the assigned Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall: 1.Develop the scope of work which identifies the system(s) or equipment requiring shutdown, the potential areas affected, the shutdown duration, proposed dates and any need for coordination or intervention of a utility company (e.g. Con Edison, National Grid, PSE&G, etc.).2.Obtain and review the most current facility/utility drawings and documents for the systems and equipment. Buildflow web based system is the central hub for all facilities drawings. Where applicable, the PM shall distribute these documents to the controlling contractor. 3.Coordinate with Facilities trade staff (e.g. Plumbing, Electrical Shop) or Real Estate and/or building management personnel to perform onsite tracing of the Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 3 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022impacted systems. This tracing is to identify and verify the valves, circuit breakers, etc. that must be isolated and/or addressed as part of the shutdown. Any planned shutdown shall be postponed until an up to date drawing is verified. 4.If the shutdown is part of a construction project, upon request, the PM shall engage the architect, engineer, controlling contractor and/or applicable subcontractors to assist with verification of system design, onsite tracing of the system and identification of valves, circuit breakers, etc. that need to be isolated as part of the shutdown. 5.Coordinate the development of up to date diagrams/plans showing the work locations, the areas impacted and the means of isolation. 6.Arrange an initial planning meeting with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate and building management representatives, the controlling contractor and subcontractors, as appropriate. During the planning meeting, the scope of work, drawings, potentially impacted utilities/equipment/areas, shutdown duration, proposed dates and any need for coordination and intervention of a utility company (e.g. Con Edison, National Grid, PSE&G, etc.) should be reviewed. 7.The PM, Real Estate or Facilities Manager shall communicate and coordinate as appropriate to schedule and perform a “trial” short term shutdown(s) to verify the areas, equipment and systems that will be impacted by the shutdown. The PM and/or Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall be responsible for ensuring facility leadership is notified as per Section 8 of this policy.8.Once this “trial shut down” assessment has been completed, the PM or Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall conduct a walkthrough with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate and building management, the controlling contractor and applicable subcontractors, the Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S, and other necessary parties (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control) to complete a risk assessment and determine if Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) and/or Infection Control Risk Assessments (ICRA) are required. 9.There shall not be any work on live utilities, systems or equipment without the prior approval of Facilities/Engineering and/or Real Estate leadership and Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 4 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022EH&S. Such work shall be conducted in accordance with the NYULH Safety Policy 167 Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout).10.Submit controlling contractor’s and any applicable subcontractor’s proposed Method of Procedure (MOP) to the Facilities/Engineering and/or Real Estate Manager. If necessary this shall also be distributed to Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S for review. MOP should be distributed at least 2 weeks before the scheduled work. 11.Develop and implement an appropriate campus or Real Estate specific water management plan if the shutdown involves a domestic water disruption. 12.Coordinate a meeting with affected area leadership to discuss details of the shutdown and any support requested and/or needed. This meeting shall include information as to why the shutdown is needed, the proposed date and time, the projected duration, area(s) and service(s) affected, support needed, contact information, ILSM/ICRA or other safety protocols, procedures in the event of unanticipated system or area impact, etc. Subsequent communications to affected area leadership shall comply with requirements of Section 8 of this policy. 13.Provide email reminders/notification to site specific Facilities Operation, Real Estate manager(s) and building management personnel no less than 72 hours (for leased properties verify with time requirement) in advance for any shutdown or as per specific directive. All email notifications should include risk analysis and risk reduction information strategies to be implemented.14.Routine maintenance that does not impact occupants or services may not require the 72 hour notification.15.Requests for planned shutdown support, must be entered into the appropriate work order system. At leased sites, the PM shall coordinate with Real Estate to request support from building management.16.Enter all required permit requests (e.g. hot work, penetration, etc.) in ATG system. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 5 of 8Revised: 07/05/20226.0EMERGENCY UTILITY SHUTDOWN RESPONSIBILITIESUpon notification or discovery of a need for an emergency utility shutdown, the designated Facilities/Engineering or Real Estate Manager shall be identified and shall:1.Immediately confirm urgency, type and extent of utility or equipment interruption, impact to services, affected area(s) and any other pertinent information. If the staff or responsible person on site believes there is impending life safety or significant property damage (e.g., fire/burning/smoke, flooding, etc.) they are authorized to perform the utility shutdown immediately and notify per Section 8.0 accordingly.2.In consultation with Campus Safety Officer/Designee, EM+ER, EH&S and other necessary parties (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control) determine the scope of necessary repair(s), estimated duration of downtime, and if outside support will be needed for resolution or repair, etc. A risk analysis shall be completed to determine if Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) and/or Infection Control Risk Assessments (ICRA) are required. The effectiveness of safety measures already in place shall be confirmed. 3.Obtain, review, validate and provide (as needed) the most up to date facility/utility drawings and/or system information to Facilities trade staff or Real Estate contractor working on restoration4.Coordinate a meeting with EM+ER and affected area leadership to review details of the interruption and the steps/measures put in place to mitigate loss of service. This meeting shall also include up to date situational details regarding the interruption, impacted area(s) and equipment, plan, schedule and scope of work needed to get system back on line, ILSM/ICRA and other safety protocols required, procedures in the event of unanticipated system or area impact, and any other operational resources impacted or needed. 5.Follow up written communications to affected area leadership shall comply with Section 8 of this policy.6.Where applicable, restore/reactivate system(s) in accordance with the NYULH Safety Policy 167 Control of Hazardous Energy (lockout/tagout). 7.Verify complete and successful restoration once services are restored. Communicate to affected areas and leadership accordingly.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 6 of 8Revised: 07/05/20227.0PRE SHUTDOWN HUDDLE PLANNED AND EMERGENCY WORKA “huddle or time out” shall be executed immediately before a planned shutdown or emergency work to restore a service. The PM, designated Facilities/Engineering or Real Estate Manager shall: 1.Identify appropriate points of contact for communication and periodic notification updates for the duration of the shutdown or emergency work.2.Verify all preparations and safety measures are in place, all required personnel and equipment needed is on site. 3.Establish and verify operation and mode of communication method (e.g. portable radios or cell phone) to be utilized during the shutdown and/or emergency work. 4.Establish clear communication and work procedures to abort or extend the shutdown or emergency work. 5.Assign staff to walk or “canvas” areas within and outside the scope of work/shutdown. 6.Perform a final field verification and communication to the affected area/program immediately before a shutdown. Field verification should be done with a use of a checklist and approved diagrams. This should be done in real time via read off confirmation to on site Facilities/Real Estate team using portable radios, cell phones and/or in person. 7.Once utility is shut down, implement a minimum of 15 minute “stand down” before any disconnection or demolition to confirm areas affected. If unexpected areas are determined to be impacted, implement procedures to abort shut down, provide interim support to affected areas and initiate procedures to restore services as appropriate and feasible.8.0COMMUNICATION AND NOTIFICATIONThe PM or designated Facilities/Real Estate manager shall coordinate communications and notifications for affected areas, leadership and other stakeholders. At a minimum, notifications should always include the reason for the shutdown, proposed date and time, projected duration, area or service(s) affected, support provided, safety protocols in place and contact information. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 7 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022The following communication protocols shall be implemented as appropriate:•Communication and notifications to impacted departments and personnel may be via email, webex meetings, and direct contact, etc. Email notification should always follow direct contact. •RED+F leadership and EM+ER shall be notified of emergency shutdowns as soon as practical. RED+F, EM+ER and the managers of the affected areas will evaluate the need and frequency of subsequent communications. •All broadcast email notifications regarding utility shutdowns shall require VP of Facilities or VP of Real Estate review and approval before distribution. •Periodic communications should be sent to leadership and the management of affected areas for shutdowns as needed. In the event the shutdown is anticipated to extend beyond the scheduled timeframe, an update communication should be sent to affected area(s) and leadership as soon as practical. Any additional follow up coordination and communications shall be scheduled as required.•When the utility or equipment is back online and service is restored, a closing communication shall be sent to affected departments and stakeholders (including leadership and EM+ER, where appropriate). 9.0FACILITY/SYSTEM DRAWINGS The Commissioning Group of the Facilities Operations Department shall be the governing body to ensure facilities drawings are up to date. For offsite properties, Real Estate shall take the lead and consult with Facilities Commissioning as necessary to update or generate facility drawings. The Buildflow web based system shall be the central hub for all facilities drawings.10.0APPROVAL AND SIGNOFF The Senior Directors of Facilities/Engineering and Real Estate, in consultation with the Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S (as necessary), shall provide final approval and sign off of any planned utility and essential equipment shutdowns. They shall also review and approve procedures and plans for emergency utility shutdowns as described in this policy. High risk and broad impact shutdowns, including medical gases, shall also require review and approval by the VP of Facilities or VP of Real Estate. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 8 of 8Revised: 07/05/202211.0RELATED POLICIES•115: Fire Alarm and Water based Fire Protection Systems: Inspection, Testing, Maintenance, and Impairments•120: Construction Safety Requirements•133: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping•145: Interim Life Safety Program•157: Electrical Safety•164: Pre construction Risk Assessment •167: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)•Infection Control Risk Assessment: Deviation from Established Environmental Controls or Process•Campus/Real Estate Specific Water Management PlanIssue Date07/2022ReplacesNewReviewed byD. Bensimon, Facilities OperationsJ. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant ManagementM. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities OperationsR. Cohen, Facilities OperationsW. Dempsey, NYULH LI Safety OfficerN. Ejaz, NYULH B, Safety OfficerB. Farrell, NYULH RED+F Real EstateM. Figueroa, Environmental Health & SafetyD. Lilly, Facilities OperationsB. Lorino, Facilities OperationsD. McCarthy, NYULH B, Facilities OperationsP. Mulyk, Facilities Operations (Commissioning)D. Resnick, RED+F Design and ConstructionD. Rubbo, NYULOH, EngineeringNYU Langone Health Construction Safety CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC CommitteeFamily Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC CommitteeSummary of RevisionsRevise dateSectionChanges


Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 1 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect personnel and the environment from unnecessary exposure to mercury To provide a reasonable timeline for removing mercury from NYULH To ensure the proper management of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All fully owned Faculty Group Practices All employees, students, licensed independent practitioners (LIPs), volunteers, and vendors of NYULH The primary departments and divisions impacted by this program are: Clinical and research laboratories Clinical Engineering Pharmacy Physician group practices RED+F and its contractors Supply Chain Management Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 2 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 2.0 Policy NYULH shall eliminate the use of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances where safe, effective alternatives exist. Where there is no acceptable substitute, NYULH will inventory and properly manage products, equipment, and substances containing mercury, with the goal of phasing out all remaining mercury containing materials as new alternatives are identified. 3.0 Definitions Elimination of mercury means as close to complete elimination as can be achieved with available alternatives. 4.0 Common sources of mercury batteries cantor or Miller Abbott tubes laboratory products (for examples, see Appendix A) laboratory stains and fixatives computer monitors electron microscopes esophageal bougies and dilators fluorescent lamps pharmaceuticals sphygmomanometers (blood pressure devices) switches and relays thermometers thermostats 5.0 Responsibilities 5.1 The Sustainability Manager is responsible for: − developing and implementing the Mercury Elimination Program (the Program) − training personnel on the requirements of the Program Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 3 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 − coordinating the inventory of mercury containing products and equipment − reviewing the Program annually and updating as needed − assisting and advising personnel in implementing the Program through appropriate mercury elimination strategies − compiling and reviewing the mercury inventory to inform goal setting, phase out plans, and additional support needed for implementation of the Program, and reporting as part of yearly Practice Greenhealth Environmental Excellence award application and the Healthier Hospital Initiative reporting requirements 5.2 Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for: − ensuring that their staff and vendors adhere to the requirements of the Program − disseminating design and purchasing guidelines to their staff and ensuring that procurement is conducted in accordance with the Program − ensuring that a copy of this policy is included and/or referenced in all contracts that apply − ensuring that specifications for purchase are in accordance with Clinical Engineering recommendations and requirements Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for: − providing the Sustainability Manager with an inventory of facilities related mercury containing products and equipment, including product codes, SKUs, and product information. RED+F Design is also responsible for: − incorporating the elimination of mercury in its Design Guidelines, and including information on alternatives where available (e.g., see Appendix B). 5.3 Department chairs, heads, and administrators are responsible for: − ensuring their staff operate in accordance with the Program − disseminating design and purchasing guidelines to their staff, and ensuring that procurement is conducted in accordance with the Program Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 4 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 − ensuring specifications for purchase of clinical instrumentation are in accordance with Clinical Engineering recommendations and requirements − ensuring their departments maintain product codes, SKUs, and information for items containing or suspected of containing mercury − notifying EH&S immediately in the event of a mercury spill − investigating and evaluating available mercury free alternatives as needed − ensuring staff receive training on the Program as needed 5.4 Dental practices are responsible for using amalgam separators for collecting and recycling of elemental mercury as per the NY Dental Mercury & Amalgam Recycling Law of 2002. 5.5 Supply Chain Management is responsible for: − working with departments and consultants in conjunction with the Group Purchasing Organization (GPO) and suppliers to advise, negotiate, and purchase materials that meet the standards of the Program wherever possible − responding to requests for purchasing information based on product information (manufacturer ID). Note: it is not Supply Chain Management’s responsibility to keep track of product codes, SKUs or information for items containing or suspected of containing mercury − ensuring the department operates in accordance with the Program when pursuing contracts, supplier agreements, and purchasing 5.6 Clinical Engineering is responsible for making recommendations on clinical devices in accordance with the Program and providing recommendations on alternatives as they enter the market. 5.7 Environmental Health and Safety and NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Housekeeping are responsible for: − providing or coordinating mercury spill response and clean up when departments are not equipped to do so independently − arranging for proper disposal of mercury containing products, equipment and chemicals as needed Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 5 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.0 Design and purchasing guidelines 6.1 Clinical Engineering has eliminated clinical equipment that contains mercury in facilities it services. 6.2 All staff members who develop specifications for purchasing shall adhere to the Program and seek out mercury free alternatives, particularly for pharmaceutical and laboratory products. Resources for finding new mercury free alternatives include: − Appendix B − Clinical Engineering − Health Care Without Harm and the World Health Organization (http://www.mercuryfreehealthcare.org/) − NYULH contractors, architects, and consultants − NYULH Group Purchasing Organization − Practice Greenhealth − Supply Chain Management − U.S. Green Building Council 7.0 Exemptions UV, florescent and LED light bulbs, ballasts and mercury containing batteries. Mercury containing pharmacy products if no safe, effective alternative exists. Mercury containing chemicals in laboratories when suitable alternative chemicals are not available. Laboratories shall avoid using mercury containing staining solutions, reagents and fixatives. 8.0 Management of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances 8.1 Where no acceptable substitute is available, or the alternative is not adequate for intended use, personnel shall manage mercury containing products, equipment, and substances in accordance with the documents referenced at the end of this policy. 8.2 Labeling: Mercury containing products, equipment or chemicals shall be physically labeled as mercury containing. Light bulbs/lamps, ballasts, and Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 6 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 batteries do not need to be labeled. Labels can be obtained from the Sustainability Manager, GBH SC2 122. 8.3 Spill response: In the event of a mercury spill, staff shall isolate the spill and coordinate prompt clean up. − If the spill is from a thermometer, a mercury spill clean up kit is available, and staff are trained to use the kit, they may use the kit to clean the spill. If not, they should consult with EH&S or NYULH LI Housekeeping. − If the spill is from a blood pressure machine, or there are any safety concerns regarding a spill of any amount, staff should contact EH&S or NYULH LI Housekeeping immediately. 9.0 Training 9.1 The Sustainability Manager shall provide personnel with training on the program. 9.2 Departments are responsible for ensuring their staff receive information and training on the Program and on any mercury stored or used within the department. 10.0 Annual reporting 10.1 The Sustainability Manager shall compile the following information annually from departments using mercury containing products, equipment and chemicals. Information on exempt items as specified in Section 7.0 does not need to be collected. − inventory with exact location specified of stationary/fixed mercury containing products and equipment, including clinical devices and building materials − records of any mercury containing products and equipment that have been removed permanently in the prior 12 months − purchasing records of known mercury containing materials or equipment for annual procurement estimates and identification of product categories for which alternatives still need to be identified − modified or newly implemented plans for elimination and timelines for elimination of existing mercury containing materials that have acceptable alternatives Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 7 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 10.2 The Sustainability Manager shall report necessary components of the above information to Practice Greenhealth, the Healthier Hospital Initiative, and any additional sustainability initiatives as relevant. Related Safety Policies 107: Disposal of Computers and Electronic Equipment 108: Chemical Waste Minimization and Disposal Program 108a: Hazardous Waste from Contractors (Construction & Building Maintenance) 108c: Universal Waste Management Program 121: Hazard Communication Program 134: Chemical Hygiene Program. Appendix A Mercury containing Items Used in Labs Appendix B Mercury free Products Approved for Purchase Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 2/2020 Reviewed by J. Agins, Sustainability Manager F. Alvarez, RED+F Design J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities E. Cintron, Real Estate E. Cohen, Clinical Ambulatory Operations, Faculty Group Practice R. Cohen, Facilities G. DeCaro, Strategic Sourcing N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer B. Farrell, Real Estate J. Kang, Environmental Health and Safety J. Krysiuk, Lab Quality J. Marcus, Supply Chain Management J. Paul, Office of Science and Research J. Pfeifer, Logistics and Distribution D. Rubbo, LOH Facilities R. Shea, Value Analysis R. Stevens, RED+F Project Support Office L. Wetstein, Clinical Engineering NYU Langone Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 8 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 Summary of Revisions Revisions date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island January 2020 Throughout Reorganizes information for greater consistency with other Safety Policies. Reorders sections. Eliminated information that is included in other Safety Policies. References those policies. Minimizes redundancy. Edits for clarity Purpose Updates statement to be more concise 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Changes name from “Introduction” to “Policy”. Clarifies policy. (3.0) Eliminates “Background” (information deemed unnecessary) 3.0 New. Information previously in “Introduction” 4.0 New. Information previously in “Background” Reviewed by Adds review by Adds review by NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYULH B Facilities, Clinical Engineering, Pathology, Real Estate, RED+F Design, February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC and FHC to NYU Langone 3.0 Defines NYU Langone December 2016 7.6 Clarifies spill response Review by: Adds reviewers for Lutheran, and HJD, Lutheran, and LFHC Environment of Care Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 170, Appendix A Mercury containing Items used in Labs Reviewed: January 29, 2020 This list is not complete. For additional information, request that vendors disclose mercury concentration on a Certificate of Analysis. − Acetic acid − Ammonium reagent/Stone analysis kit − Antibody test kits − Antigens − Antiserums − Buffers − Calibration kits − Calibrators − Chloride − Diluents − Enzyme Immunoassay test kits − Enzyme tracers − Ethanol − Extraction enzymes − Fixatives − Hematology reagents − Hormones − Immunoelectrophoresis reagents − Immunofixationphoresis reagents − Immu sal − Liquid substrate concentrate − Negative control kits − Phenobarbital reagent − Phenytoin reagent − Positive control kits − Potassium hydroxide − Pregnancy test kits − Rabbit serum − Shigella bacteria − Sodium hypochlorite − Stains − Standards − Sulfuric acid − Thimerosal − Tracer kits − Urine analysis reagents − Wash solutions Safety Policy 170, Appendix B Mercury free Products Approved for Purchase Reviewed: January 29, 2020 Material or Instrument Accepted Mercury free Product/Brands/Alternatives Thermometers Enviro Safe digital thermometers Sphygmomanometers Welsh Allyn 767 Wall and Mobile Aneroids Gastrointestinal Equipment Tungsten filled bougies TTS balloons Wire guided polyvinyl dilators (Savary) Float Controls Mercury free alternatives as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines Thermostats Electronic thermostats as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines Pressure Gauges Electronic alternatives as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines B5 fixative Zinc alternatives where appropriate Zenker’s Solution Zinc alternatives where appropriate


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 212 Policy: Use of Cellular and Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops Page 1 of 4 Revised: March 25, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To establish guidelines for the safe use of cellular and wireless technology POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH − All patients, visitors, and guests of NYULH 2.0 Policy 2.1 Cellular phone usage is permitted in all areas of the NYULH with the following caution: • Users shall connect to Wi Fi provided by NYULH • Users shall maintain a distance of at least 1 meter from medical equipment as recommended by ECRI, when practical, while using a mobile communication device • Users shall avoid placing communication devices on top of, or in direct contact with, any medical device • Users shall be cognizant of patient privacy and to avoid distraction or unnecessary noise while using mobile devices. • Staff shall monitor energized medical devices, and report all incidents involving EMI interference of medical devices to Clinical Engineering promptly for evaluation. See Appendix A for Supplemental Educational Materials. 2.2 Air waves are unprotected and conversations may be intercepted by other telephones. Staff will refrain from disclosing protected health information during cellular phone conversations to protect patient confidentiality. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 212 Policy: Use of Cellular and Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops Page 2 of 4 Revised: March 25, 2021 2.3 Two way Radios may be used in the receive mode only in all patient care areas. 2.4 Emergency Use of Two Way Radios • Whenever maintenance staff, security officers, EMS personnel, Life Flight employees, or other personnel with two way radios are in a patient care unit and an emergency occurs which requires the use of their radio, they should make their best effort to adhere to the following guidelines, listed in preferred order: • Leave the patient care unit to use the two way radio. (This minimizes interference created by RF devices, as the distance between the RF device and the affected equipment is increased.) • Keep the two way radio at least ten (10) feet away from any energized medical device. • If output levels are adjustable, use the lowest setting possible that facilitates acceptable communications. • If any equipment in the vicinity of the radio user should malfunction while the radio is in use, terminate use of the radio immediately. Any further use should be from the visitor waiting area or a non patient care unit. 2.5 Tablets, Laptops and Notebooks must undergo ad hoc testing against the major medical equipment to ensure that they do not cause any interference. 2.6 Special Cases • Implanted Devices: Patients and staff with implanted devices such as pacemakers and defibrillators, must exercise caution when carrying and using wireless devices. Recommended procedures, as delineated by the medical device manufacturer, must be followed. • Emergency Vehicles: Operators of emergency vehicles, which transport patients with sensitive medical devices, and their supervisors, must be cognizant of the fact that two way radios, beepers, and cell phones can cause electromagnetic interference at close range. Medical devices used in these applications must be carefully selected. 2.8 Exceptions to this policy must be approved by the Clinical Safety Committee. 2.9 Any questions pertaining to this policy should be directed to Clinical Engineering. 3.0 Incident Reporting 3.1 Report any suspected incidents of medical device electromagnetic interference to Clinical Engineering. Clinical Engineering shall investigate each incident, Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 212 Policy: Use of Cellular and Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops Page 3 of 4 Revised: March 25, 2021 develop recommendations, and report findings to the Patient Safety Officer, Risk Management, the Clinical Safety Committee and/or the Environment of Care (EOC) Committee or Sub committee as appropriate. 3.2 Document patient injuries in Patient Safety Intelligence (PSI). See Administrative Policy for Patient Safety/Adverse Event Reporting Policy and Reporting & Follow up of Adverse Events/Occurrences (Incident Reporting), available on Ellucid. 3.3 Contact Clinical Engineering for any questions about the applicability of using and enforcing the use of wireless devices. 4.0 Responsibilities 4.1 Supply Chain is responsible for: • Incorporating language in future bid requests and contracts to require manufacturers to certify the electromagnetic compatibility of the requested medical device(s) as defined by international EMC standards. For example, NFPA 99, Standards for Health Care Facilities, paragraph 9 2.1.6.4, states, “All appliances shall be designed so that they are capable of operating in a radio frequency electromagnetic environment where limits are established by IEC 60601 1 2”. The Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), a division of the FDA, in cooperation with the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) has also developed guidance standards for medical device manufacturers seeking pre market approval. 4.2 Clinical Engineering is responsible for: • Reviewing technical publications and standards for trends and updates relating to this issue and communicating noteworthy advances to the NYU Langone Hospitals Clinical Safety Committee. • Investigating medical device malfunctions and reporting findings to the Patient Safety Officer, Risk Management, the Clinical Safety Committee and/or the Environment of Care (EOC) Committee as appropriate 4.5 Mobile device users are responsible for: • Complying with this policy. • Contacting Clinical Engineering if they suspect that the function of a medical device has been affected by an EMI generating device. Appendix A Supplemental Educational Material Considerations for Working with Cell Phones in Operating Rooms Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 212 Policy: Use of Cellular and Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops Page 4 of 4 Revised: March 25, 2021 Issue date 03/2021 Replaces 11/2019 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH Long Island, Facility and Plant Management E. Cintron, Real Estate K. Demarco, Nursing N. Ejaz, NYULH Brooklyn Safety Officer M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety G. Langan, NYULH Brooklyn Nursing M. Murphy, Risk Management M. Simon, Regulatory L. Wetstein, Clinical Engineering NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revision Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island October 2019 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Adds references to NYULH Wi Fi, and to ECRI recommendations Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital December 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 2.0 Clarifies cell phone usage precautions March 2017 Application Changes NYUHC to NYU Langone 1.0 Becomes Application Defines NYU Langone 2.0 Removes Rationale for Policy Becomes Policy 3.0 Becomes Incident Reporting 4.0 Becomes Responsibilities Review by Adds Review by Lutheran Safety Officer, Lutheran Nursing, and HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committees Supplemental Education Material Safety Policy 212, Appendix A Considerations for Working with Cell Phones in Operating Rooms Adapted from the American College of Surgeons Statement on Distractions in the Operating Room, June 2016 • The undisciplined use of cellular devices in the OR—whether for telephone, e mail, or data communication, and whether by the surgeon or by other members of the surgical team—may pose a distraction and may compromise patient care. • Surgeons should be considerate of the duties of personnel in the OR suite and refrain from engaging them unnecessarily in activities, including assistance in cellular communication, that might divert attention from the patient or the conduct of the procedure. • Cellular phones must not interfere with patient monitoring devices or with other technologies required for patient care. • Whenever possible, members of the OR team, including the operating surgeon, should only engage in urgent or emergent outside communication during surgery. Personal and routine calls should be minimized. Calls should be kept as brief as possible. • Whenever possible, incoming calls should be forwarded to the OR desk or to the hardwired telephone in the OR to minimize the potential distraction of cellular phones. • The ring tone should be silenced. An inaudible signal may be employed. • Whenever possible, a distinct signal for urgent or emergent calls should be enabled. This signal may be implemented via a “page” option in most cellular telephones. Callers should be advised to use this function only for urgent and emergent calls if the phone is unanswered. • The use of cellular devices or their accessories (such as earphones or keyboards) must not compromise the integrity of the sterile field. • Special care should be taken to avoid sensitive communication within the hearing of awake or sedated patients. • Communication using hardwired phones in the operating room is subject to the same discipline as communication using cellular technology. • The use of cellular devices to take and transmit photographs shall be governed by hospital policy on photography of patients and by government regulations pertaining to patient privacy and confidentiality.


Page 1 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs Policy on Conflicts of Interest In Business Affairs Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: December 31, 2019 Contents: I. Applicability II. General Policy III. Procedures for Disclosure IV. Review and Evaluation V. Recusal VI. Definitions VII. Examples of Conflicts of Interest VIII. Enforcement IX. Questions X. Relationship to Other Policies I. Applicability This Policy applies to all members of the NYU Langone Health community employees, faculty, staff, residents, trainees, students, Officers, and Key Persons of NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, NYU Langone Health System (the “System”) and the other NYU Langone Health Entities (each, an “Individual”) except Trustees, who are governed by the Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons. All capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI below. II. General Policy A. Individuals have a primary obligation to serve the purposes to which NYU Langone Health is dedicated. As part of this obligation, each Individual has a duty to conduct his or her NYU Langone Health duties and the affairs of NYU Langone Health in a manner that promotes the best interests of the organization and in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Individuals have a duty to disclose on an ongoing basis any current, proposed or pending situations that may give rise to a Conflict of Interest. B. A “Conflict of Interest” means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial, or other interests of an Individual (including his or her Immediate Family) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her obligations to NYU Langone Health and the interests of NYU Langone Health. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the Individual’s actions or decisions are determined by considerations of personal benefit, whether financial or otherwise. A Conflict of Interest also may exist whenever an Individual participates, directly or indirectly, in the selection, award or administration of any business transaction which involves NYU Langone Health and the Individual, a member of his or her Immediate Family, or an entity in which he or she has a Financial Interest. Employment agreements between NYU Langone Health and the Individual are not business transactions giving rise to Conflicts of Interest under this Policy. In addition, a Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an Individual, a member of his or her Immediate Family, or an entity in which he or she has a Financial Interest engages in Page 2 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs competition with a service provided by NYU Langone Health, including, but not limited to, by providing a teaching, research, or clinical service for a health care provider which competes with NYU Langone Health, or by appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the Individual knows NYU Langone Health is pursuing. Examples of Conflicts of Interest are set forth in Section VII below. C. NYU Langone Health does not engage in any matter giving rise to a potential Conflict of Interest involving an Individual unless the matter has been fully disclosed and evaluated in accordance with this Policy and a plan for managing or eliminating the Conflict of Interest has been adopted. D. This Policy applies to any circumstance that may constitute a Conflict of Interest, regardless of whether it is specifically described in this Policy. For example, while an Individual’s Financial Interests are defined to include current interests as well as interests held in the preceding twelve (12) months, there also may be situations where far older interests create an actual or perceived Conflict of Interest. III. Procedures for Disclosure A. Annual Disclosures. The following Individuals must submit to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance & Enterprise Risk Management’s Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (“CIMU") his or her disclosure forms upon appointment, hiring and annually thereafter: (i) Chairs, Vice Chairs, Department Administrators, and all employees and officers at the level of Vice President, Assistant Dean or Director or above; (ii) Full time faculty members and part time employed faculty members; (iii) Investigators participating in NYU Langone Health’s research or sponsored programs; (iv) Persons engaged in purchasing decisions on behalf of NYU Langone Health; and (v) Individuals of any NYU Langone Health committees with supervision or oversight responsibilities over patient care, purchasing, research or education at NYU Langone Health (e.g., the Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee (P&T) and the Institutional Review Board (IRB)). The annual disclosure form will be provided electronically to the Individual by the CIMU and must be completed and submitted within thirty (30) days of receipt. In addition, the CIMU may request any Individual to complete an annual disclosure form at any time. In the annual disclosure form, an Individual must, among other matters, certify compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, including this Policy, and disclose all entities in which he or she has a Financial Interest which he or she reasonably believes (i) provides or seeks to provide goods and/or services to healthcare providers, (ii) does business with or seeks to do business with NYU Langone Health, (iii) donates or may donate funds to NYU Langone Health, (iv) competes with or could potential compete with NYU Langone Health in the areas of clinical care, research and development, or faculty, student, trainee, or employee recruitment, or (v) could reasonably appear to be related to the Individual’s responsibilities (teaching, clinical, research, administrative or otherwise) with NYU Langone Health. Disclosures of Financial Interests must be made in specific amounts. For faculty, Individuals must also disclose any concurrent faculty appointment at any U.S. or foreign university, institution of higher education, academic teaching hospital, medical center, or research institute (including visiting, guest, or adjunct faculty appointments) other than at NYU. In addition, as provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, faculty members must disclose all outside activities involving his or her professional competence. Individuals Page 3 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs may also be required to disclose additional personal interests, activities and relationships as mandated by regulatory requirements (e.g., IRS Form 990). Officers and Key Persons may be subject to additional disclosure requirements as provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers and Key Persons. B. Specific Disclosures. All Individuals have an ongoing obligation throughout the year to disclose new and anticipated Conflicts of Interests. All Individuals must disclose to the CIMU any specific situation that gives rise to a potential Conflict of Interest. C. Confidentiality. Disclosures will be kept confidential and divulged by NYU Langone Health for review under the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting on a need to know basis or as required by applicable laws and regulations. IV. Review and Evaluation A. CIMU Review. The CIMU is responsible for reviewing and evaluating each disclosure made by an Individual and for determining whether a potential Conflict of Interest exists under the circumstances. In cases where the CIMU believes that a significant potential Conflict of Interest exists, the CIMU will submit the matter to NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee (“BCOIC”). The CIMU will determine whether a significant potential Conflict of Interest exists based upon directions provided to the CIMU by the BCOIC from time to time and upon the best interests of NYU Langone Health. For all other matters, the CIMU will evaluate the matter to determine if the potential for a Conflict of Interests exists, and, if so, how such potential Conflict of Interest may be managed, reduced or eliminated. When appropriate, the CIMU may adopt and issue to Individuals a plan for managing and monitoring any potential Conflict of Interest. Such plans will depend upon the facts and circumstances of the specific matter and will be consistent with this Policy and the directions of the BCOIC. Each affected Individual must review and sign the conflict management plan and comply with all of its terms. B. BCOIC Review. The BCOIC is responsible for reviewing and evaluating each potential Conflict of Interest submitted to it by the CIMU. As a matter of policy, if the BCOIC finds that a Conflict of Interest exists, NYU Langone Health will not approve the matter unless the BCOIC determines, after reviewing all material facts, that extraordinary circumstances merit an exception and the BCOIC adopts a plan for managing and monitoring the Conflict of Interest which is fair, reasonable, and in the best interests of NYU Langone Health. Any management plan will depend upon the facts and circumstances of the specific matter. Each affected Individual must review and sign the conflict management plan and comply with all of its terms. C. Key Persons or Officers. Potential Conflicts of Interests involving Key Persons or Officers of an NYU Langone Entity (other than the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone) are subject to the requirements of NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons. The CIMU will submit such matters to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the System’s Board of Trustees (“Audit and Compliance Committee”) in accordance with the requirements of the Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees and Key Employees. In addition, the CIMU may submit matters related to Key Persons and Officers to the BCOIC for the BCOIC’s review and evaluation. Any findings of the BCOIC on matters subject to the Policy on Conflicts of Interests for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons are subject to the final review of the Audit and Compliance Committee as provided in that policy. D. Monitoring. The CIMU is responsible for periodically monitoring compliance with every plan for managing and monitoring a Conflict of Interest or potential Conflict of Interest issued under this Policy. Page 4 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs V. Recusal No Individual shall participate, directly or indirectly, in the selection, award, or administration of any matter that gives rise to a potential Conflict of Interest. In such event, the Individual must not attempt to influence improperly NYU Langone Health’s deliberation, decision making or voting on the matter, must completely recuse himself or herself from the matter, and must notify the CIMU as provided in Section III(B) above. VI. Definitions A. “Conflict of Interest” shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section II(B) above. B. A “Financial Interest” is held in an outside entity by an Individual when he or she or a member of his or her Immediate Family holds a Financial Interest in the outside entity. Examples of Financial Interests are a Management, Board, or Employment Position, Ownership Interests, Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travel, Royalty Income, and Intellectual Property Rights, where: (i) “Management, Board, or Employment Position” means a position or appointment to serve, in either a personal or representative capacity, as a director, trustee, partner, senior executive, officer, employee, or equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, at the outside entity; (ii) “Ownership Interests” are equity interests held, either directly or indirectly, including stock and stock options (or entitlement to the same), of any amount in either a publicly traded or non publicly traded entity. (Exception: Mutual Funds Interests of any amount in publicly traded, diversified investment vehicles, such as broad based publicly traded, diversified mutual funds and exchange traded funds, as long as the Individual, or his or her Immediate Family Members, collectively, do not have a or greater direct or indirect interest in the vehicle and do not have a Management, Board, or Employment Position in the vehicle, are not Ownership Interests.); (iii) “Consulting Compensation” means salary, consulting fees, honoraria, paid authorship, lecture fees, other emoluments, stock, stock options, royalties or “in kind” compensation directly or indirectly received from an entity (or entitlement to the same), whether in connection with a Management, Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, or service on a scientific advisory board, data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinical trial, executive committee for a clinical trial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any other purpose, that have been received in the past calendar year or are expected to be received in the current or next calendar year; and (iv) “Paid/Reimbursed Travel” means the occurrence and value of any paid/sponsored (i.e., sponsored travel is that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to the Investigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available), and/or reimbursed travel, whether in connection with a Management, Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, or service on a scientific advisory board, data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinical trial, executive committee for a clinical trial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any other purpose, that have been received in the past calendar year (i.e., no less than the past 12 months) or are expected to be received in the current or next calendar year. (v) “Royalty Income” means payments linked to product sales, or the written contractual right to receive future royalties, directly or indirectly, under an issued or pending patent, license or copyright, that has been received in the past calendar year or is expected to be received in Page 5 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs the current or next calendar year. For the purpose of this Policy, Royalty Income includes all income received by an Individual from NYU in accordance with the NYU Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property. (vi) An “Intellectual Property Right” is an issued or pending patent, license or copyright and includes, for the purpose of this Policy, the right to income from NYU in connection with a patent, license or copyright held by or to be held by NYU (for further information, see the NYU Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property). Exceptions: The following are not Financial Interests under this Policy: (i) Salary from NYU Langone Health and cost related payments for services or reimbursements from NYU Langone Health. (ii) Payments to NYU Langone Health, or via NYU Langone Health to the Individual, which are directly related to the reasonable costs incurred in the conduct of a research project or sponsored program or to the payment of indirect costs and are specified in a grant, agreement or contract between NYU Langone Health and a research sponsor. (iii) Paid/reimbursed Travel from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by, or in connection with service on advisory committees or review panels for, a federal, state, or local government agency, or a non profit institution of higher education, academic teaching hospital, medical center, or research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. C. “Immediate Family” means the person’s spouse, domestic partner, person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, or any other family members residing in the person’s household. D. An “Individual” means each member of NYU Langone Health community, including employees, faculty, staff, residents, trainees, students, Key Persons, and Officers, other than trustees. E. A “Key Person” of the System (or of any of NYU Langone Health Entity) means any person, other than a Trustee or Officer, whether or not an employee of the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable), who (i) has responsibilities, or exercises powers or influence over the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable) as a whole similar to the responsibilities, powers, or influence of directors and Officers; (ii) manages the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable), or a segment of the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable) that represents a substantial portion of the activities, assets, income, or expenses of the System (or NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable); or (iii) alone or with others controls or determines a substantial portion of the capital expenditures or operating budget of the System (or NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable). For the System, Key Person includes but is not limited all members of the executive leadership of NYU Langone Health as defined from time to time by the CEO of the System who are not Officers of the System. F. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy also has been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; therefore, for purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. G. “NYU Langone Health Entity” means each individual entity that is part of NYU Langone Health. Page 6 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs H. “Officer” means any person described as an officer in the governing documents of the System or any NYU Langone Health Entity. I. “Trustee” means a voting member of the governing body of NYU Langone Health System and each NYU Langone Health Entity. VII. Examples of Conflicts of Interest The following are situations that give rise to a Conflict of Interest and require disclosure to the CIMU in accordance with this Policy. This list is by no means all inclusive. In case of uncertainty as to whether or not a Conflict of Interest exists, an Individual should disclose the matter to the CIMU. For example, some potential Conflicts of Interest occur when: A. An Individual or a member of his or her Immediate Family has a Financial Interest in an entity or vendor that NYU Langone Health is contemplating doing business with (e.g., NYU Langone Health is contemplating purchasing, leasing or selling of goods, services, or real estate, or making or receiving a loan to or from such individual or entity, or is contemplating accepting a grant from such individual or entity for sponsored research). B. An Individual or a member of his or her Immediate Family proposes that NYU Langone Health use or purchase goods in which the Individual has a proprietary interest (e.g., an Individual advocates the use of a device designed by the Individual). C. An Individual, a member of his or her Immediate Family, or any entity in which he or she has a Financial Interest either engages in competition with a service provided by NYU Langone Health (e.g., by working for an organization which competes directly with NYU Langone Health or appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the Individual knows NYU Langone Health is pursuing, except that a member of NYU Langone Health’s medical staff who is also on the medical staff of another hospital does not constitute competition so long as the second appointment has been approved in advance by NYU Langone Health’s Dean and CEO or by its Chief Clinical Officer). D. An Individual, a member of his or her Immediate Family, or any entity in which he or she has a Financial Interest recruits any NYU Langone Health faculty member or employee or solicit business which knowingly disturbs, or could be expected to disturb, the existing professional or business relationships of NYU Langone Health with any faculty member, employee, health care provider or referral source. E. An Individual proposes that NYU Langone Health hire or contract with a member of his or her Immediate Family for a position or activity that is within his or her direct or indirect supervision or control. The employment of a member of an Individual’s Immediate Family with NYU Langone Health must be in accordance with NYU’s Policy on the Employment of Members of the Same Family. F. An Individual solicits or accepts a gift, favor or anything of monetary value from a contractor, vendor, patient, co worker, volunteer or other person with whom NYU Langone Health has a business relationship, except as specifically provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Acceptance and/or Solicitation of Gifts or Benefits From Vendors, Patients and Other Third Parties. G. An Individual uses assets, property or labor of NYU Langone Health to his or her personal advantage. H. An Individual discloses or uses any non public information obtained in the course of discharging his or her duties and responsibilities at NYU Langone Health to his or her personal advantage. Page 7 of 7 Policy on Conflict of Interest In Business Affairs I. An Individual is an inventor on patents or other IP Rights held by NYU and licensed to a start up company, and receives an inventor’s share to any NYU licensing or royalty income and any equity NYU receives from the start up company through licensing. VIII. Enforcement A. Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective Individual. B. Any failure to make a disclosure as required under this Policy by any members of an NYU Langone Health committee will result in the member being suspended or removed from such committee. IX. Questions Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the CIMU. X. Relationship to Other Policies A. This Policy replaces the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs issued on April 1, 2009 as previously updated on April 1, 2011, July 1, 2014, June 29, 2016, and March 1, 2018. B. This Policy is intended to supplement, but not replace, other policies and guidelines applicable to the Individual, including the conflict policies set forth in the NYU Faculty Handbook and elsewhere in NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and, Consulting. C. A matter involving an Individual’s participation in research is also reviewed under NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. D. Key Persons and Officers of the System and each NYU Langone Entity (other than the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone) are subject to both this Policy and the System’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers and Key Persons. For any matter related to a Key Person or an Officer, to the extent there is any issue about whether the requirements of this Policy conflict with the requirements of the Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers and Key Persons, this Policy is to be interpreted to assure compliance with the Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers and Key Persons.


New York University UNIVERSITY POLICIES Title: NYU Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment Effective Date: September 2013 Supersedes: NYU Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment, August 24, 2012 Issuing Authority: University Provost Responsible Officer: Senior Vice Provost for Research Purpose of this Policy The purpose of this policy is to establish consistent guidelines for Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment. Who Needs to Know this Policy Faculty, administrators and staff in the NYU Academic Community LIST OF CONTENTS I. General Principles II. Policy Definitions III. Conflict of Commitment A. Definition B. Policy and Discussion IV. Conflict of Interest A. Definition B. Policy and Discussion C. Types of Conflict of Interest (1) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities (a) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities Generally (b) Outside Research Activities (c) Outside Teaching Activities (d) Requirements Related to Permissible Outside Activities, including Consulting, by NYU Faculty and Investigators (2) Scholarship and Other Academic Activities (3) Activities Creating a Conflict of Interest (a) Improper Use of NYU Resources (b) Obtaining, Using or Disclosing Confidential Information (c) Failing to Disclose and Assign Inventions and Discoveries (d) Competing with NYU (e) Business Arrangements For Personal Benefit 2 (f) Gifts Intending to Influence (g) Compliance with University Policies D. Circumstances Under Which Conflicts of Interest May Be Permitted E. Training V. Procedures: Disclosures, Review and Responsibilities A. Disclosures (1) Faculty and Other Investigators: Annual Disclosures (2) Faculty and Other Investigators: Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements (3) Faculty and Other Investigators: Ad Hoc Disclosures B. Review Procedures (1) Review of Annual and Ad Hoc Disclosures (2) Review of Research and Other Sponsored Projects Disclosures C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine D. Appeals E. Enforcement F. Record Retention Exhibit A: Examples of Conflict of Interest Exhibit B: Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES New York University (NYU) believes that a great university should be engaged in the world and should actively foster the transfer of knowledge gained in scholarship and research for the benefit of the public. NYU encourages its faculty to serve these goals through their primary commitment to engaging in teaching, research, including sponsored research, and collegial support activities that are consonant with our values as an institution of higher education. Insofar as is consistent with that commitment, it also is appropriate and often desirable for faculty members to participate in public and private activities beyond their NYU association by engaging in other professional and academic activities including public service, pro bono work and consulting activities that may benefit the participants, NYU, and the larger public. Normally it is expected that there will be no conflict between faculty commitment to NYU and other activities in which faculty members may engage, that faculty and Investigators (as defined below) will conduct their affairs so as to avoid or minimize conflicts of interest, and that should there be any actual, potential or appearance of conflicts between the individual’s private interests and his or her professional obligations to NYU, the faculty member or Investigator will promptly disclose and resolve any issues before engaging in the activities. NYU recognizes, however, that in undertaking activities as a part of a primary commitment to NYU or in outside endeavors, a divergence can occur between the personal interests of a faculty member or an Investigator and his or her professional obligations to NYU, in which case a conflict of commitment or conflict of interest can arise. 3 The purpose of this policy, including the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, is to assist the faculty in determining whether and to what extent such other activities may conflict with the faculty’s primary commitment to teaching, research and collegial responsibilities; to educate faculty and Investigators about situations that generate the potential for conflicts of interest or conflicts of commitment; to clarify expectations about disclosing interests and activities that might result in conflicts; to identify means to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflicts; and to promote the best interests of students and others whose work depends on the direction of faculty members and Investigators. Every NYU faculty member and Investigator has an obligation to become familiar with and abide by the provisions of this policy. If a faculty member or Investigator has a question about whether an activity is permitted under this policy, the faculty member or Investigator should disclose the potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, or the Office of the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), or the Office of the General Counsel. This policy covers conflicts of commitment and conflicts of interest. While this policy is of general applicability to faculty and Investigators, the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, which is appended hereto as Exhibit B, includes specific provisions regarding conflicts of interest arising in connection with Research and Other Sponsored Projects. The Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, without reference to the other provisions of this policy or other NYU policies, is intended to meet NYU’s obligations to maintain a policy on financial conflicts of interest in research funded by federal sponsoring agencies (including the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation). For purposes of this policy: (a) references to the “Provost” means the “Provost or his or her designee; and (b) references to the “Executive Vice President for Health” means “the “Executive Vice President for Health or his or her designee.” Individual Schools may wish to supplement this policy with policies applicable to their faculty and/or Investigators. To ensure consistency with NYU policies, such School policies must be approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). II. POLICY DEFINITIONS A Conflict of Commitment, as discussed in greater detail in Section III, occurs when a faculty member’s Outside Activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the faculty member’s obligations to NYU. A Conflict of Interest, as discussed in greater detail in Section IV and in the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including the Immediate Family Members of the individual) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question 4 whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. A conflict of interest under the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects constitutes a Conflict of Interest under this policy. Consulting refers to any remunerated Outside Activity involving an individual’s professional competence. Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role means a position involving service, in either a personal or representative capacity, as an employee, executive, manager, officer, director, trustee, or equivalent in a business, enterprise or entity other than NYU or an entity that is or more owned or controlled by NYU. Entity includes the entity itself and entities that own or control, are owned or controlled by or are under common ownership or control with the entity, with ownership and control defined as a or greater direct or indirect interest. Immediate Family Members include an individual’s spouse or domestic partner or person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, and any other family members residing in the same household. Investigator means the principal investigator or program director, and any other person, regardless of title or position, who is responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, or who proposes funding for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, at or under the auspices of NYU. For purposes of this policy, other than for the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, Investigator only includes members of the University Community. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. NYU includes the Schools and other units of NYU, NYU’s Global Network University sites, and all University Affiliates (as each term is defined in NYU’s Developing University Policies, as amended from time to time). Outside Activities include any external Consulting or other business activities and external professional or academic endeavors, such as public service or pro bono work, performed outside of the faculty member’s appointment to NYU or an Investigator’s employment or association with NYU. Ownership Interest means holding a financial or ownership interest in a business or entity, including stock, stock option, warrant, convertible debt, partnership interest, or LLP/LLC interest, or other ownership interest or right to obtain an ownership interest. The value of an Ownership Interest is determined through reference to public prices or other reasonable measures of fair market value where public prices are not available. Remuneration includes salary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees, honoraria, paid editorial or authorship activities). Income for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU from seminars, lectures, teaching engagements or service on advisory committees or review panels sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, or an 5 institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education, for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars, editorial or authorship activities, service on advisory committees or review panels (including professional associations), are excluded from the definition of Remuneration. Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any research project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and any externally funded training or professional service project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any systematic investigation, study or experiment designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, including basic and applied research (e.g., a published article, book or book chapter) and product development (e.g., a diagnostic test, drug or device), and non research projects such as training, clinical services, educational conferences, exhibitions, performances, archives, workshops, and library projects for which external funding is received. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any such activity for which funding is available from external sources through a grant, contract or agreement, including, but not limited to, research grants, career development awards, center grants, individual fellowship awards, infrastructure awards, institutional training grants, program projects and research resources awards. School means each NYU school, college and institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant, CUSP, and SoE), each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai) and also may include for purposes of this policy other global sites as designated by the Provost. School Dean means the dean, or his or her designee, of each NYU school and college, the director or each NYU institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant and CUSP) and the Vice Chancellor of each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York and Abu Dhabi). In the case of other NYU global sites that have faculty and/or Investigators, the Provost may designate someone to fulfill some or all of the duties of a School Dean as described herein with respect to such global sites. University Community means NYU faculty, including visiting faculty; researchers, including persons participating in research at or under the auspices of NYU; employees; professional staff, including medical, dental and nursing staff; volunteers; fellows, trainees and post doctoral appointees; students; and consultants, vendors and contractors. III. CONFLICT OF COMMITMENT A. Definition A Conflict of Commitment occurs when a faculty member’s Outside Activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the faculty member’s obligations to NYU. Full time NYU faculty members owe their primary professional allegiance to NYU, and their primary commitment of time and intellectual energies should be to NYU’s teaching, research, and clinical programs. 6 The specific responsibilities and professional activities that constitute an appropriate primary commitment to NYU will differ across Schools, departments and units, but they should be based on a general understanding between the faculty member and his or her department chair and/or School Dean. Even with such understandings in place, however, attempts of faculty to balance NYU responsibilities with Outside Activities can result in conflicts regarding allocation of time and energies. Normally, it is expected that there will be no Conflict of Commitment between faculty commitment to NYU and other activities in which faculty members may engage. Furthermore, to the extent any questions of possible Conflict of Commitment arise, it is anticipated that the faculty member will quickly resolve the issues. Outside Activities that do not constitute a Conflict of Commitment are permissible only if they also do not result in an impermissible Conflict of Interest (as discussed in Section IV and the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects attached to this policy as Exhibit B) and are in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the applicable School. B. Policy and Discussion (1) Faculty must maintain a significant physical presence on their assigned campus throughout each semester or summer period while they are compensated by NYU. A full time appointment conveys an obligation for a faculty member to have a significant physical presence on his or her assigned campus (e.g., New York, Abu Dhabi or other global campus), to be accessible to students and staff, and to be available to interact with NYU colleagues on that campus throughout every semester or summer period while the faculty member is receiving compensation from NYU (i.e., holds a compensated appointment and is not on leave), unless the department chair and/or School Dean has granted specific prior approval for extended or frequent absences from campus. Fulfillment of these obligations requires a primary commitment of expertise, time, and energy. Because requirements for field research and other reasons for absence from campus differ across NYU, Schools and departments may define for their faculties what qualifies as inappropriate, extended, or frequent absences. (2) Faculty must not allow Outside Activities to detract from their primary allegiance to NYU and should be guided and governed in their consideration of an offer of ancillary employment or other Outside Activities by their primary obligation of furthering NYU’s essential missions. Appointment as a full time faculty member is inconsistent with engaging in significant Outside Activities. Full time faculty are permitted to spend no more than an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) on Outside Activities during any semester or summer months in which they receive compensation from NYU. Uncompensated scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars sponsored by governmental or non profit entities, service on advisory committees or review panels for government or non profit entities, including professional associations, and service on the editorial board of a journal in the field of the faculty member’s appointment, may be excluded from the definition of Outside Activities by the School Dean or the Provost (the Executive Vice President 7 for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) for purposes of this paragraph. In addition, full time faculty members may not have executive or managerial responsibilities in a private or public entity outside of NYU. Exceptions to the prohibitions against engaging in Outside Activities more than one day per seven day week or having executive or managerial responsibilities in a private or public entity outside of NYU limitation are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made only with the prior written approval of the School Dean and Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Outside Activities may detract from a faculty member’s obligations to NYU. For that reason, Outside Activities must be consistent with the principles outlined in this policy and other applicable NYU policies. In particular, when judging the appropriateness of any such Outside Activity, faculty members must consider the time commitment involved and the potential impact of such Outside Activity, together with all of the faculty member’s other Outside Activities, on the fulfillment of NYU’s institutional goals. Part time faculty members may accept outside employment as long as it does not create a Conflict of Interest or otherwise interfere with any of their obligations to NYU. IV. CONFLICT OF INTEREST A. Definition A Conflict of Interest means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including Immediate Family Members of the individual), may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. B. Policy and Discussion NYU is committed to operating in a highly ethical manner and in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Undisclosed or inappropriate Conflicts of Interest can compromise the integrity of NYU, can reflect negatively on faculty and Investigators, and can result in financial and other sanctions on NYU. It is therefore the policy of NYU that Conflicts of Interest, including actual, potential and appearances of conflicts, be disclosed (see Section V.A below) and permitted only in appropriate cases, after being evaluated in accordance with this policy and managed to the extent determined advisable (see Section V.B below). Faculty or Investigators who are unclear as to whether a matter must be disclosed should err on the side of disclosure. NYU has broad power to require disclosures of Conflicts of Interest to determine whether a Conflict of Interest exists, to investigate Conflict of Interests, to manage or eliminate Conflicts of Interest, to impose appropriate sanctions on faculty and Investigators who violate this policy, to release 8 information about Conflicts of Interest and to require faculty and Investigators to take Conflict of Interest training. By way of example, the types of management actions that NYU may take in response to a Conflict of Interest include: reviewing and, where appropriate, monitoring the conflict; imposing conditions or restrictions intended to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflict; requiring disclosure of the conflict or of additional information; obtaining background documents; prohibiting a conflicted person from involvement, including exercising personal influence, in connection with a matter; obtaining waivers, consents and/or authorizations; appointing an oversight body to monitor the conflict or other activities; requiring relinquishment of interests and/or restructuring or severance of relationships that contribute to the conflict. In addition, NYU can eliminate the conflict, as for example by prohibiting a faculty member or an Investigator from participating in the activity or by requiring action that eliminates the conflict as a condition of participating in an activity. C. Types of Conflict of Interest A Conflict of Interest can arise in numerous situations. The following discusses some of the more common types, although Conflicts of Interest may arise in varying circumstances not encompassed in the categories below. This policy applies to any circumstance that may constitute a Conflict of Interest, regardless of whether specifically described herein, and regardless of whether it is effectuated directly or indirectly. For example, while an individual's personal interests are defined to include only those of the person and his or her Immediate Family Members, there also may be situations where the interests of other persons, such as a close friend or other family member, create a Conflict of Interest. Unless otherwise specifically stated, a faculty member or an Investigator may not engage in an activity prohibited by this Section IV.C. unless the activity is expressly permitted in the faculty member’s or Investigator’s employment contract with NYU or such activity is approved in advance in writing by the School Dean and Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Any such approval may be subject to a plan to manage, reduce or eliminate the Conflict of Interest. In addition, all permissible activities must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. (1) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities. Faculty must not allow Outside Activities or other personal activities to detract from their primary allegiance to NYU, as discussed in Section III relating to Conflict of Commitment. In addition, faculty and Investigators must undertake their Outside Activities and other personal activities in compliance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. In particular, a faculty member’s Outside Activities that involve teaching at another institution require special disclosure and review. (a) Outside Activities and Other Personal Activities Generally The following Outside Activities and other personal activities create a Conflict of Interest: (i) Competing, directly or indirectly, with NYU in the provision, purchase or sale of any property, goods or services or in other activities in which NYU is or might reasonably and appropriately become engaged; and 9 (ii) Appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the person knows or should know that NYU is pursuing or is considering pursuing or reasonably might be interested in pursuing if it were aware of the opportunity; and (iii) Soliciting business that the person knows or should know would or might disturb an existing professional or business relationship that NYU has with any member of the University Community or outside entity. (b) Outside Research Activities Full time faculty members and full time Investigators may not act as a principal investigator under the auspices of another institution. All permissible outside research also must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. See in particular the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects attached to this policy as Exhibit B. (c) Outside Teaching Activities A teaching engagement outside of NYU competes directly with NYU’s core educational mission. Accordingly, a faculty member may not accept a concurrent faculty appointment at another academic institution; provided, however, that a faculty member may accept a concurrent faculty appointment at another academic institution while on unpaid leave from NYU with the prior approval of his or her School Dean. All Outside Activities involving teaching require prior approval from the School Dean, other than: (i) Delivering a limited number of lectures at other academic institutions, at conferences, or at public gatherings (with or without compensation); (ii) Teaching summer courses, at NYU or elsewhere, by faculty not receiving other summer compensation from NYU for the period in question; and (iii) Posting of uncompensated, non interactive educational materials on a website. The above exceptions are not absolute. For example, faculty should not teach courses designed for NYU at another institution or in connection with non NYU distance learning ventures, even during a period when they are not compensated by NYU, without prior consultation and opportunity for comment by the department chair and/or School Dean. These rules with respect to outside teaching activities apply primarily to full time faculty. Part time faculty members are expected to disclose their teaching activities outside of NYU as part of their appointment and whenever a material change has occurred and to engage in teaching activities outside of NYU only to the extent they do not interfere with any of their teaching obligations to NYU. In addition, the provisions cited above regarding teaching courses designed for NYU outside of NYU apply to part time faculty as well. 10 (d) Requirements Related to Permissible Outside Activities, including Consulting, by NYU Faculty and Investigators All faculty and Investigators who engage in Outside Activities, including Consulting, must conduct the activities in accordance with the following unless otherwise approved in accordance with this policy: (i) The Outside Activities must be consistent with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. (ii) The Outside Activities of full time faculty may not constitute a Conflict of Commitment as discussed in Section III above. (iii) Faculty and Investigators must disclose in writing to NYU all Outside Activities, including the entity(ies) for which activities are to be performed and the nature, scope, duration and compensation for such activities, in accordance with NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. Such Outside Activities must not constitute a Conflict of Interest without prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan. (iv) Prior to beginning any Consulting, faculty and Investigators must inform the party for whom the Consulting is to be performed of NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents, and this policy, and the obligations of the faculty member and/or Investigator under such policies. It is strongly encouraged that faculty and Investigators obtain recognition in any Consulting agreement of NYU’s rights and priorities under such policies to the extent they apply. (v) Faculty and Investigators may not use NYU resources, including facilities, personnel or equipment, except in a purely incidental way, as part of or in connection with their Outside Activities. Use of NYU funding, NYU intellectual property and NYU confidential information is never incidental and may not be used as part of or in connection with Outside Activities. In particular, faculty and Investigators may not use NYU students, staff or postdoctoral scholars in any tasks that relate to the Outside Activities of the faculty member and/or Investigator or for potential or real financial gain. (vi) Faculty and Investigators may not use the NYU name, or any NYU mark, symbol or logo, as part of or in connection with Outside Activities, other than reference to their NYU affiliation for identification purposes. (vii) Faculty and Investigators must make it clear that their Outside Activities are personal, NYU has no involvement in or liability for such activities and NYU is not endorsing such activities. 11 (viii) Faculty and Investigators may not grant any outside person or entity access to NYU resources, including research results and materials or products generated from NYU teaching or research activities. (ix) Faculty and Investigators may not make or offer inappropriate inducements or take actions that are illegal or unethical in connection with their Outside Activities. (x) Faculty and Investigators may not either (i) receive funds for the faculty member’s and/or Investigator's NYU research from a party for whom compensated Outside Activities are being performed or (ii) engage in compensated Outside Activities for a party from whom funds are to be received for the faculty member’s or Investigator's NYU research, without prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan. (xi) NYU has no responsibility or liability for the Outside Activities of faculty or Investigators. Faculty and Investigators are encouraged to consider all risks before undertaking Outside Activities. NYU insurance coverages do not protect faculty and Investigators engaged in Outside Activities. (2) Scholarship and Other Academic Activities. The heart of a university is its commitment to academic values and the failure of faculty and Investigators to carry on scholarship and other academic activities in an ethical and appropriate manner can damage NYU’s reputation and otherwise harm the NYU community, creating a Conflict of Interest. Consistent with NYU's mission and its prevailing academic ethos, faculty and Investigators are expected to foster an atmosphere of academic freedom by promoting the open and timely exchange of results of scholarly activities, ensuring that their advising of students, fellows, trainees and postdoctoral appointees is independent of personal commercial interests, and informing students and colleagues about outside obligations that might influence the free exchange of scholarly information between them and the faculty member or Investigator. Faculty and Investigators must ensure that: (a) The results of research or scholarship undertaken at NYU are disseminated on an open and timely basis to the broader scholarly community and public; and (b) The academic activities of student, fellows, trainees and postdoctoral appointees are free from the outside personal interests of the faculty member or Investigator; and (c) The work of students, fellows, trainees, postdoctoral appointees, and others is not inappropriately used in the course of a faculty member's or Investigator’s outside obligations. To this end, faculty members and Investigators should be open about their involvements with and obligations to outside third parties who could benefit from the work or ideas of their students, staff and colleagues. Similarly, students, staff and faculty collaborators should have access to information about the sources of funds that support their research and their contributions to such research should be properly credited; and (d) They have made a sufficient contribution under pertinent professional academic standards to warrant the authorship credit to be given them; and they must not permit their 12 identification as an author of a publication that they know or should know was written by sources who are not properly identified and credited (i.e., ghostwritten). For further information see the NYU Guidelines for Sponsored Research (Faculty Handbook), http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies guidelines compliance/policies and guidelines/faculty handbook.html. (3) Activities Creating a Conflict of Interest. The following activities create a Conflict of Interest (a) Improper Use of NYU Resources. NYU facilities, personnel and other resources are provided to further NYU’s educational, administrative, research, clinical and other goals. These resources may not be used for personal use, including Outside Activities, except in a purely incidental manner. Personal use may not adversely affect work performance or add more than a negligible amount to the cost of these resources for NYU. All such incidental or other personal use must be in accordance with all NYU policies, including this policy and policies of the relevant School. The personal use, including in Outside Activities, of NYU funding or NYU intellectual property is never permitted and is never considered purely incidental. NYU does not ensure the security or privacy of any faculty work arising from personal use of NYU resources. (b) Obtaining, Using or Disclosing NYU Confidential Information. (i) Obtaining, using or disclosing NYU confidential information for direct or indirect personal interest, profit or advantage or, for a purpose that may be detrimental to NYU. (ii) Use of NYU confidential information for a purpose that is not authorized by NYU or disclosure of NYU confidential information to a person who or entity that is not authorized by NYU to receive it. For purposes of this policy, NYU confidential information includes, but is not limited to: medical, personnel, security, academic, background check, conflict of interest, identifiable biometric records and other non public information about individuals; business records; contracts and business terms; business and donor relationships; computer system passwords and security codes; proprietary and competitively sensitive information, including non public information about anticipated material requirements, price actions, programs, and selection of contractors and subcontractors in advance of official announcements; unpublished grant proposals, non public research data, manuscripts and correspondence; non public financial, procurement, health safety, audit, insurance and claims information; and non public information relating to internal investigations, pre litigation and litigation and administrative agency charges, audits and inquiries; and other information whose confidentiality is protected by law or NYU policies. (c) Failing to Disclose and Assign Inventions and Discoveries. Inventions and discoveries by faculty members, Investigators and others subject to NYU's Statement of Policy on Patents, http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies guidelines compliance/policies and guidelines/faculty handbook.html), must be disclosed and assigned on a timely basis in accordance with the terms of that Statement of Policy as in effect from time to time. 13 (d) Competing with NYU. (i) Engaging in activities that are in direct competition with NYU. (ii) Holding, directly or indirectly, an ownership or other financial interest (such as a royalty interest) or having an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role in an enterprise that is a competitor of NYU or promoting the interests of such enterprise at NYU. Holding, directly or indirectly, an Ownership Interest will not, by itself, be deemed to be a Conflict of Interest where: the interest is in an enterprise held through a diversified investment vehicle (such as a broad based mutual fund or exchange traded fund) in which neither the faculty member or Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family Members, collectively, has a or greater direct or indirect interest; or where the interest is held in publicly traded securities in which neither the faculty member or Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family Members, collectively, holds directly or indirectly securities valued in excess of $5,000 or that represent more than a interest of any class of a company’s stock or shares; (e) Business Arrangements for Personal Benefit. Participating, directly or indirectly, in the selection, award or administration (including attempting to influence the purchase of products or services as through a recommendation or involvement in the subsequent performance of the business arrangement) of any business arrangement involving NYU and an enterprise in which the faculty member or Investigator holds, directly or indirectly, an ownership or other financial interest (such as a royalty interest) or has an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role. (f) Gifts Intending to Influence. Accepting gifts (including entertainment), a loan (other than an arm’s length loan made in the ordinary course of business from a banking or other financial institution) or a favor of more than nominal value from any person or entity with a business relationship, or seeking to have a business relationship with, NYU or its faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients if the offer or acceptance of the gift could reasonably be viewed as intended to influence the business relationship. (g) Failure to strictly comply with NYU policies and other rules, regulations and standards of conduct. Examples of specific Conflicts of Interest intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this Section IV.C. are set forth in Exhibit A to this policy. D. Circumstances Under Which Conflicts of Interest May Be Permitted It is recognized that certain Conflicts of Interest may arise in situations in which a faculty member or Investigator does not know or have reason to know of the conflict. In such situations the person should disclose the Conflict of Interest immediately upon learning of it. While Conflicts of Interest must be disclosed, they normally will be permitted where they are a minor, but an inseparable, part of a larger business relationship, or as a practical matter cannot realistically be eliminated, provided they are highly unlikely to pose a significant Conflict of Interest and the faculty member or Investigator is 14 not in a position to influence NYU in its decision making regarding the transaction or to benefit from NYU’s transaction with the outside entity. In considering whether a Conflict of Interest arising from a faculty member’s or an Investigator’s Outside Activities may be permitted, favorable factors include: (a) The faculty member or Investigator fully disclosing in advance to NYU the material facts of the proposed Outside Activity, including the specific financial interest(s) and/or role(s) the faculty member or Investigator proposes to undertake; (b) The faculty member or Investigator refraining from voting or exercising any personal influence whatsoever in connection with the selection, award or administration of any matter that gives rise to a Conflict of Interest; (c) The faculty member or Investigator otherwise avoiding participating in any dealings between NYU, or its faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients, and the person, entity or company with whom or in which the faculty member or Investigator (or Immediate Family Member) has a financial interest or an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role, including with respect to the selection of such person, entity or company as a vendor or business partner of NYU (or as a supplier of goods or services to NYU faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients) or the subsequent award or administration; (d) The Outside Activities are conducted on an arm’s length basis at fair market value; and (e) NYU determines in accordance with Section V of this policy that the Conflict of Interest is not inconsistent with the best interests of NYU. Where a Conflict of Interest arising from a faculty member’s or Investigator’s Outside Activities is permitted, the permission may be conditioned on adherence to a specified management plan. E. Training All NYU faculty members and Investigators need to be familiar with this policy and may be required by their School Dean or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) to complete training regarding this policy and their responsibilities regarding activities that may constitute a Conflict of Interest. V. PROCEDURES: DISCLOSURES, REVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility in the first instance for determining whether an activity presents a Conflict of Commitment or Conflict of Interest rests with the faculty member or Investigator concerned. If there is any reasonable doubt as to whether an activity may constitute such a conflict, or there is a question about whether an activity is permitted under this policy, the faculty member or Investigator must disclose the actual, potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, or the office of the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, and Nursing) or the Office of the General Counsel. 15 Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. A. Disclosures (1) Faculty and Other Investigators: Annual Disclosures On an annual basis, all full time faculty, persons identified by the Office of the Provost as Investigators (through processes it determines) and others as requested by a School Dean or the Office of the Provost must complete and submit to their School Dean the applicable annual disclosure form then in effect, which form will refer faculty and Investigators and, where applicable, others to this policy and any related policies of the applicable School (including the availability of this policy and any applicable School policy on the NYU website). Such annual disclosure form requires, among other matters: (a) certification of compliance with this policy and related policies of the applicable School; (b) disclosure of information about the faculty member’s or Investigator’s or other’s (and his or her Immediate Family Members) Outside Activities and other personal, professional, financial, ownership or other interests (including Ownership Interests and Remuneration) that could reasonably be relevant to assessing whether there might be a Conflict of Interest as described in Section IV of this policy and in the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects; and (c) in the case of faculty, disclosure of information pertinent to a Conflict of Commitment as described in Section III of this policy. Unless required under the implementation of this Policy by the faculty member’s School, disclosures of uncompensated scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars sponsored by governmental or non profit entities, service on advisory committees or review panels for government or non profit entities, including professional associations, and services on the editorial board of a journal in the field of the faculty member’s appointment, will not be required in the annual disclosure form. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section V.B below. (2) Faculty and Other Investigators: Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements Each time a faculty member or other Investigator is planning to participate in proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the faculty member and each other Investigator involved with the proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects must make the disclosures required by Section IV.A of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (3) Faculty and Other Investigators: Ad Hoc Disclosures Faculty members and Investigators have a duty to disclose to the School Dean on an ad hoc basis current, proposed or pending situations that may raise questions of Conflict of Commitment or Conflict of Interest, in advance of the conflict arising if possible, and otherwise as soon as such situations become known to the faculty member or Investigator. Each time a faculty member or Investigator proposes to engage in a transaction (e.g., gift, technology licensing arrangement, purchase, etc.) with a person or entity as to which the faculty member or Investigator would have a Conflict of Interest as described in Section IV of this policy, the faculty member or Investigator must disclose the matter to the School Dean on an ad hoc basis. 16 NYU may require a faculty member or Investigator to complete an ad hoc conflict disclosure form at any time. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section V.B below. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. B. Review Procedures (1) Review of Annual and Ad Hoc Disclosures Annual disclosures and ad hoc disclosures will be reviewed by the School Dean in accordance with the procedures approved for the School by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Such procedures may provide that the School Dean forward any disclosure that presents a Conflict of Interest or a Conflict of Commitment to a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment, as described in Section V.C. below (a “Committee”). For any matter referred to it, the Committee will make a recommendation to the School Dean and/or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) regarding the existence and extent of a Conflict of Interest and, as appropriate, a proposed resolution to manage or eliminate any Conflict. See Section IV.B. above regarding the management of Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. (2) Review of Research and Other Sponsored Projects Disclosures Disclosures associated with Research and Other Sponsored Projects will be reviewed in accordance with Section IV.B of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment The Provost may establish a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment when the Provost believes it would be useful to do so; a School Dean or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the EVP for Health with respect to the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) may ask the Provost to establish such a Committee when the person believes such a Committee would be useful. The task of such a Committee may include reviewing all referrals of identified Conflict of Interest or Conflict of Commitment that have been referred by School Deans or another source in accordance with this policy. A Committee’s role is advisory to the School Deans and to the Senior Vice Provost for Research, except in the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing, where the Committee’s role is advisory to the School Dean and the Executive Vice President for Health. In addition to the Committees contemplated by this policy, each School Dean may establish separate conflict of interest committee(s), which may be faculty/Investigator advisory committees, to review other conflicts under the policies of the relevant School. 17 (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research The Provost has designated the Senior Vice Provost for Research as the Provost's representative for managing this policy and its implementation at Schools other than the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Senior Vice Provost for Research will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health The Provost has designated the Executive Vice President for Health as the representative for managing this policy and its implementation for the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Executive Vice President for Health will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) The School Deans are responsible for establishing procedures to implement this policy, to provide any mandatory training, and to ensure timely collection and review of their faculty's and Investigators’ annual and ad hoc disclosures. School Deans will refer disclosures of actual, potential or appearance of conflicts in accordance with the procedures of the School approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) and work, if necessary, with an applicable Committee or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), to ensure that all conflicts are eliminated or managed. Each School Dean will provide a report annually to the Provost (and also to the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) on their School’s compliance with this policy. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the faculty and other Investigators of that School, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of disclosures reporting Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Provost (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing). (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine In recognition of the unique significance of conflicts at an integrated academic medical center, the Provost and Executive Vice President for Health have delegated broad authority to the Dean of the School of Medicine to interpret the principles outlined in this policy for implementation in connection with all matters under this policy arising out of the School of Medicine. As is the case for all NYU policies, the Dean of the School of Medicine may introduce additional restrictions to this policy in order to implement the principles outlined above. The Dean of the School of Medicine will provide a report annually to the Provost and the Executive Vice President for Health on the School of Medicine’s compliance with this policy. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the faculty and other Investigators of the School of Medicine, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the 18 number of disclosures reporting Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Executive Vice President for Health. D. Appeals Should a faculty member or an Investigator or other person a School Dean or the Office of the Provost has made subject to this policy wish to appeal a decision made by a School Dean on any matter contemplated by this policy, the faculty member or Investigator or other person may present the appeal to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), who will consider the case in consultation with the School Dean and, at his or her discretion, an appropriate Committee as contemplated by this policy. E. Enforcement Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU, in accordance with the NYU disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective faculty member or Investigator as set forth in the Faculty Handbook and/or the applicable NYU rules for the category of person involved, including in the applicable policies and procedures of the relevant Schools. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, additional enforcement provisions are set forth in Section IV.E. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. F. Record Retention Records related to this policy will be maintained in accordance with NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records Policy as in effect from time to time. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, additional record retention requirements are set forth in Section IV.F. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. 19 Exhibit A Examples of Conflict of Interest The following are examples of specific Conflicts of Interest intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in Section IV above: Additional examples of Conflicts of Interest are set forth in Section V. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (1) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to take a Consulting position to assist an organization that seeks to compete directly with an NYU program. For example, a faculty member in the School of Medicine proposes to take a Consulting position with a major academic medical center in NYC in a clinical area that competes directly with NYU or a faculty member proposes to take a Consulting position to assist a major university in its efforts to establish a campus that would compete with one of NYU’s comprehensive campuses. (2) A faculty member or Investigator accepts a payment from a company with which the faculty member or Investigator recommends NYU contract. (3) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU enter into a business transaction with an entity in which the faculty member or Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Ownership Interest. (4) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU use or purchase a product, which would result in an economic benefit to the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family. For example, a faculty member advocates the use of software the faculty member created prior to joining NYU and as to which the faculty member receives a royalty based on the commercial use of the software. (5) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to accept a gift (which includes entertainment) from an entity that is seeking to sell a product to NYU and as to which the faculty member's or Investigator’s view of the product may be solicited before a purchasing decision is made by NYU. (6) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU enter into a technology licensing arrangement with an entity in which the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family Member serves on the board of directors or is employed. (7) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU hire or contract with a member of his or her family for a position that is within his or her direct or indirect supervision or control. NYU’s employment of a family member must be in accordance with NYU’s Policy on the Employment of Members of the Same Family. (8) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to undertake or orient his or her research at NYU to serve the private interests of an outside firm without disclosure and permission. (9) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to share unpublished data from NYU research with a company as part of a consulting engagement or in discussions about a proposed consulting engagement. 20 (10) A student is a principal in a company and offers his or her professor compensated work with that company, or offers to engage the professor after the course is completed. (11) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU offer its employees or alumni an insurance policy with a company in which the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family Member serves on the board of directors. 21 Exhibit B Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects This addendum supplements the Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment (referred to in this Addendum as the “policy”) with respect to Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. It is intended, without reference to the other provisions of the policy or other NYU policies, to meet NYU’s obligations to maintain a policy on financial conflicts of interest in research funded by federal sponsoring agencies (including the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation). This addendum applies to all Investigators of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, where “Research and Other Sponsored Projects” means research projects conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and externally funded training or professional service projects conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, and “Investigator” means the principal investigators or program directors, and any other persons, regardless of title or position, who are responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of such projects, or who propose funding for such projects including both members of the University Community and persons doing the foregoing for subgrantees, contractors, collaborators, or consultants. Most but not all Investigators are NYU faculty members. The principles set forth herein also may serve to provide guidance in analogous non research situations. I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES NYU has a strong commitment to the principle of open and objective inquiry in the conduct of its research. Investigators participating in research at NYU have a primary obligation to conduct the research free of a Conflict of Interest so as to avoid the tainting or the perception of tainting of the research. Individual Schools may wish to supplement this addendum with policies applicable to their Investigators. To ensure consistency with NYU policies, such School policies must be approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). II. DEFINITIONS References in this addendum to the policy refer to the Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment. For purposes of this addendum, terms have the meaning as set forth in the policy unless separately defined in this addendum. A Conflict of Interest, as discussed in greater detail in the policy, means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including the Immediate Family Members of the individual) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective 22 conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role means a position involving service, in either a personal or representative capacity, as an employee, executive, manager, officer, director, trustee, or equivalent in a business, enterprise or entity other than NYU or an entity that is or more owned or controlled by NYU. FCOI or Financial Conflict of Interest means a Significant Financial Interest that could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct or reporting of a specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects. An FCOI is a Conflict of Interest under the policy. Immediate Family Members include an individual’s spouse or domestic partner or person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, and any other family members residing in the same household. Institutional Responsibilities means an Investigator’s professional responsibilities on behalf of NYU, including research, research consultation, teaching, professional practice, institutional committee memberships, and service on panels such as institutional review boards or data and safety monitoring boards. Principal Investigator, Project Director or Program Director is the person with primary responsibility for the design, conduct, or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for identifying other Investigators on their specific research project at or under the auspices of NYU. All Principal Investigators are NYU faculty members or NYU employees who have been granted an exception under NYU Code 103 Policy Addendum at the Washington Square campus. All Principal Investigators are Investigators. Investigator means any person, including the Principal Investigator, regardless of title or position, who is responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. For purposes of this addendum, Investigator also includes outside persons who are responsible for doing any of the foregoing for subgrantees, contractors, collaborators or consultants of NYU Research and Other Sponsored Projects as determined by the applicable School in consultation with the applicable principal investigator or program director. Section III of this addendum outlines the circumstances under which such external Investigators will be required to comply with the pertinent portions of this addendum. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. NYU includes the Schools and other units of NYU, NYU’s Global Network University sites, and all University Affiliates (as each term is defined in NYU’s Developing University Policies, as amended from time to time). Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any Research and Other Sponsored Projects that is not funded or proposed to be funded by PHS through any of its organizational units. Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects will become PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects if, at any time, PHS funding is obtained or proposed. 23 Outside Activities include any external, remunerated consulting involving an individual’s professional competence or other business activities and external professional and academic endeavors, such as public service or pro bono work, performed outside of the faculty member’s appointment to NYU or an Investigator’s employment or association with NYU. Ownership Interest means holding a financial or ownership interest in a business or entity, including stock, stock option, warrant, convertible debt, partnership interest, LLP/LLC interest, or other ownership interest or right to obtain an ownership interest. The value of an Ownership Interest is determined through reference to public prices or other reasonable measures of fair market value where public prices are not available. PHS means the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and any components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated, including the National Institutes of Health (NIH). PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any Research and Other Sponsored Projects funded (or proposed to be funded) in whole or in part by PHS through any of its organizational units. PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects are subject to the PHS Regulations. PHS Regulations means the regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) entitled “Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought,” (see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/coi/), as the same may be amended from time to time. Reimbursed or Sponsored Travel (applies ONLY to PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS regulations) means any reimbursed or sponsored travel (i.e. that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to the Investigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available) related to institutional responsibilities, when aggregated with other financial interests per entity exceeds $5,000 in the 12 months prior to disclosure. Excludes travel reimbursed or sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. Remuneration includes salary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees, honoraria, paid editorial or authorship activities). Income for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU from seminars, lectures, teaching engagements or service on advisory committees or review panels sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, or an institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education, for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars, editorial or authorship activities, service on advisory committees or review panels (including professional associations), are excluded from the definition of Remuneration. 24 Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any research project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and any externally funded training or professional service project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any systematic investigation, study or experiment designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, including basic and applied research (e.g., a published article, book or book chapter) and product development (e.g., a diagnostic test, drug or device), and non research projects such as training, clinical services, educational conferences, exhibitions, performances, archives, workshops, and library projects for which external funding is received. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any such activity for which funding is available from external sources through a grant, contract or agreement, including, but not limited to, research grants, career development awards, center grants, individual fellowship awards, infrastructure awards, institutional training grants, program projects and research resources awards. Royalty Income means any royalty income, licensing income or other proceeds (e.g., payments linked to product sales or other usage and milestone payments), or the written contractual right to receive future royalties, licensing income or other proceeds, directly or indirectly, under a pending or issued patent, license, copyright or other property right, and includes, for purpose of this policy, all income received by the person from NYU in accordance with NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents. School means each NYU school, college and institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant, CUSP, and the SoE), each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai) and also may include for purposes of this policy other global sites as designated by the Provost. School Dean means the dean, or his or her designee, of each NYU school and college, the director or each NYU institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant and CUSP) and the Vice Chancellor of each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York and Abu Dhabi). In the case of other NYU global sites that have faculty and/or Investigators, the Provost may designate someone to fulfill some or all of the duties of a School Dean as described herein with respect to such global sites. Significant Financial Interest has a different meaning for PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms than it has for other Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects. A. Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations For PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms, Significant Financial Interest means any financial interest consisting of one or more of the following interests of an Investigator (which also includes those of the Investigator’s Immediate Family Members) that reasonably appears to be related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU: 25 (1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, a Significant Financial Interest exists if the value of any Remuneration and estimated travel reimbursement and travel paid from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and the value of any Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000; or (2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, a Significant Financial Interest exists if (i) the value of Remuneration and estimated travel reimbursement and travel paid from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) there is any Ownership Interest in the entity; or (3) Intellectual property rights (e.g., patents or copyrights), royalties from such rights and agreements to share in royalties related to such rights, upon receipt of the Royalty Income related to such rights and interests. B. Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects that do not incorporate the PHS Regulations For Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects that do not incorporate the PHS Regulations, Significant Financial Interest means a financial interest consisting of one of more of the following interests of an Investigator (which also includes those of the Investigator’s Immediate Family Members) in an entity other than NYU that could reasonably appear to be affected by, or might in turn affect, the Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects: (1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, the value of any Remuneration from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and the value of any Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) the Ownership Interest as of the date of disclosure exceeds five percent () in any class of the entity’s securities; or (2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, (i) the value of Remuneration from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) there is any Ownership Interest in the entity; or (3) Intellectual property rights (e.g., patents or copyrights), royalties from such rights, and agreements to share in royalties related to such rights; or C. Both PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects For both PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the following types of financial interests are excluded from the definition of Significant Financial Interest: (1) Salary, royalties, or other remuneration paid by NYU while the recipient is currently employed or otherwise appointed by NYU; (2) Income from diversified investment vehicles, such as broad based mutual funds and exchange traded funds, as long as the Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family members, collectively, do 26 not have a or greater direct or indirect interest in the vehicle and do not have an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role in the vehicle; (3) Income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education; (4) Income from service on advisory committees or review panels for a federal, state, or local government agency, or an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education; and (5) Interests in and Remuneration from a publicly traded entity where the total aggregate value of (a) Remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and (b) Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure is less than $5,000, provided that the Ownership Interest also is less than five percent () in any class of the entity’s securities. III. POLICY AND DISCUSSION As with all Conflicts of Interest, NYU has broad power to require disclosures of FCOI arising out of Research and Other Sponsored Projects to determine whether a FCOI exists, to investigate FCOI, to manage or eliminate FCOI, to ensure, to the extent possible, that the design, conduct, and reporting of research will be free from bias, to impose appropriate sanctions on Investigators who violate this addendum, to release information about FCOI and to require Investigators to take FCOI training. By way of example, the types of management actions that NYU may take in response to a FCOI arising out of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects include: reviewing and, where appropriate, monitoring the conflict; imposing conditions or restrictions intended to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflict; requiring disclosure of the FCOI or of additional information (e.g., requiring disclosure of the FCOI when presenting or publishing the research or requiring disclosure of the FCOI to participants in a human subjects research project); obtaining background documents; prohibiting a conflicted person from involvement, including exercising personal influence, in connection with a matter; revising the design of Research and Other Sponsored Projects to address potential bias from the FCOI; obtaining waivers, consents and/or authorizations; appointing an oversight body to monitor the FOCI and/or other activities (e.g., a body to monitor and review ongoing Research and Other Sponsored Projects or other activities); and requiring relinquishment of interests and/or restructuring or severance of relationships that contribute to the FCOI. In addition, NYU can eliminate the FCOI, as for example by prohibiting an Investigator from participating in Research and Other Sponsored Projects or by requiring action that eliminates the FCOI as a condition of participating in an activity (e.g., divestment of an Ownership Interest giving rise to a FCOI). While every FCOI is subject to prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan, in the case of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, there are very specific procedures with respect to the advance disclosure and review of FCOIs by all Investigators as set forth in Section IV of this addendum. In each case, a determination will be made as to whether the proposed activity can proceed as contemplated, whether it can proceed only if a management plan is adhered to, or whether the FCOI is so significant that it must be eliminated. 27 Human subjects research of greater than minimal risk is the most sensitive area of research. Accordingly, the disclosures and review in this area, addressed in Section IV of this addendum, include additional requirements and determinations as to whether to proceed and under what conditions are held to an even higher standard. This addendum applies to all research conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not funded by a federal sponsoring agency or another external funding source. Research and Other Sponsored Projects that are sponsored often are subject to additional conflict rules, including those imposed by a federal sponsoring agency and those imposed contractually by private funding sources and collaborators. It is the policy of NYU to comply with all such requirements. This addendum is believed to be in compliance with the applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements; to the extent there is any issue about whether this addendum wholly complies with a sponsoring agency or other sponsor requirement, it is to be interpreted to assure compliance. Additionally, Research and Other Sponsored Projects must be conducted in accordance with all NYU policies, including the policy and policies of the relevant School. Each Investigator is responsible for assuring his or her compliance with the requirements applicable to the Investigator’s specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects. In instances where NYU carries out funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects through subgrantees, subcontractors, or collaborators, NYU will, to the extent it is required to under the grant or contract terms with the funder, either require, by written agreement, such external Investigators to comply with the pertinent portions of this addendum, or require, by written agreement, the entities for which the Investigators work to provide assurances that such entities have a written conflicts policy in effect that applies to their Investigators and complies with applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements. Such written agreements will specify the time period(s) for the subgrantees, subcontractors or collaborators to report to NYU all identified FCOI or to submit to NYU all Investigator disclosures of significant financial interests, in each case so as to enable NYU to meet its obligations under this addendum, and its obligations to external sponsors, if applicable. Examples of specific FCOI intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this Section III are set forth in Section V of this addendum. All Investigators involved in Research and Other Sponsored Projects may be required by the funding source to periodically complete an appropriate training program prior to engaging in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Each Investigator involved in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects must complete training regarding this policy and the PHS Regulations, and the Investigator’s responsibilities regarding disclosure of Significant Financial Interest as required under this policy, prior to first engaging in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, at least every four years thereafter, and as otherwise may be requested by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) or his or her department chair or School Dean. IV. PROCEDURES: DISCLOSURES, REVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility in the first instance for determining whether an activity presents a Conflict of Interest rests with the Investigator concerned. If there is any reasonable doubt as to whether an activity may constitute such a conflict, or there is a question about whether an activity is permitted under the policy, including this addendum, the Investigator should disclose the actual, potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, the Office of the 28 Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) or the Office of the General Counsel. A. Disclosures (1) Investigator: Annual Disclosures On an annual basis, Investigators who are members of the University Community must complete and submit the applicable annual disclosure form to the extent required by Section V.A.(1) of the policy. Each Investigator who is a member of the University Community and who is involved in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects must complete an annual disclosure form in the year prior to each submission of a proposed PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects or complete an annual disclosure form prior to the next submission of a proposed PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (2) Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements Each time an Investigator is planning to participate in proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the Investigators involved with the proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects must submit the applicable Investigator financial interest disclosure form in effect, which form will refer the Investigator to the policy, including this addendum (including their availability, on the NYU website). Such Investigator financial interest disclosure form requires, among other matters, disclosure of the Investigator’s and his or her Immediate Family Members’ (i) Significant Financial Interests (specifying, in the event of a PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects or a Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms, if any such Significant Financial Interest could reasonably be determined to affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects and specifying for each disclosed travel reimbursement and travel paid at a minimum, the purpose of each trip, the identity of each sponsor/organizer, its destination, and its duration); (ii) Employment/Management/Fiduciary Roles held in an entity whose financial interest could affect the Research and Other Sponsored Projects; and (iii) any rights held in intellectual property covering products or processes being used in the Research and Other Sponsored Projects (including any right to royalty income from intellectual property assigned to NYU under NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents). Such disclosure must be made prior to the submission of an application for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects to the sponsor, updated annually for the duration of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, and updated within thirty days of discovering or acquiring any such new activity or interest (e.g., through purchase, marriage or inheritance). The Investigator financial interest disclosure form and annual update form must be submitted even if there is no interest, position or rights to disclose. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section IV.B. of this addendum. (3) Human Subjects Research Disclosures Studies involving human subjects of greater than minimal risk and requiring review by an institutional review board (IRB) raise the most sensitive issues. Studies involving pre clinical research (i.e., studies reasonably anticipated to contribute to an FDA application for research involving human subjects 29 within the next 12 months) also raise sensitive issues. For that reason, the scientific objectivity of an Investigator may be reasonably questioned in those cases where the Investigator has any personal interests which could be affected by the research no matter what positions or dollar amounts are involved. Accordingly, the disclosures required for studies involving human subjects of greater than minimal risk are the same as those required with Research and Other Sponsored Projects in Paragraph “2” above, except that the definition of Significant Financial Interest will not include any minimum dollar limitations. All disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section IV.B of this addendum. B. Review Procedures Disclosures associated with Research and Other Sponsored Projects that are required under this addendum, including annual and investigator disclosures, will be reviewed by the School Dean in accordance with the procedures approved for the School by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). The School Dean is responsible for determining whether any disclosed interest could be affected by, or is an entity whose financial interest could be affected by, the specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects, and, if so related, whether the interest is an FCOI. Whenever the School Dean identifies any FCOI in a Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the School Dean will refer such matter to the appropriate committee, unless the procedures approved for the School do not require such referral or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) agrees such referral is unnecessary. In the review, the School Dean and/or the appropriate committee will determine whether and the extent to which a FCOI exists and, as appropriate, a proposed resolution to manage or eliminate any FCOI. Management of an identified FCOI requires development and implementation of a management plan and, if necessary, a retrospective review and a mitigation report as outlined below. See Section III of this addendum regarding the management of FCOI. Where a FCOI is present but was not disclosed or reviewed in a timely manner, the School Dean and/or the appropriate committee will implement, on at least an interim basis, a conflicts mitigation plan that will include a review and determination as to whether the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, or any portion thereof, conducted prior to the identification and management of the FCOI was biased in the design, conduct, or reporting of such Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Review and implementation of such conflicts mitigation plan must be completed in a timely manner. For PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, such review and implementation is required within sixty days of identifying the failure to disclose or review the FCOI. For all matters referred to it, the appropriate committee will convey its decision to the School Dean, who will either accept it or refer it to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) for resolution. The results of the review and any resulting conflict management and/or mitigation plan will be communicated to the principal investigator and to the Investigator(s) with the identified conflict (if 30 different), each of whom will need to agree to the plan(s) before the Research and Other Sponsored Projects may proceed. For FCOI cases involving human subjects research, the approved conflict management and/or mitigation plan also will be communicated to the relevant IRB for further action. If the conflict management and/or mitigation plan permits the research to proceed with the conflicted Investigator, such plan will provide, at a minimum, for appropriate disclosure to human subjects involved in the research study, if any, and to the public in presentations and publications of resulting research data. Commencement of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects (including any enrollment of research subjects) or expenditure of any awarded funds for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects may not occur until after completion of the review and evaluation of an Investigator’s disclosure associated with the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, including the implementation of any necessary or appropriate management and/or mitigation plan and any reporting required to or by the sponsor prior to commencement relating to an Investigator’s disclosure. In the case of an on going Research and Other Sponsored Project, when a new Investigator discloses a Significant Financial Interest or an existing Investigator discloses a new Significant Financial Interest, the disclosure will be renewed in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section IV.B(2),with the review and evaluation completed within sixty days, including implementation on an at least an interim basis of any necessary or appropriate management and/or mitigation plan, and with timely compliance with reporting required to or by the sponsor. C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment The Provost may establish a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment when the Provost believes it would be useful to do so; a School Dean or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the EVP for Health with respect to the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) may ask the Provost to establish such a committee when the person believes such a committee would be useful. The task for such a committee may include reviewing all referrals of identified Conflict of Interest that have been referred by School Deans or another source in accordance with this addendum. A committee’s role is advisory to the School Deans and to the Senior Vice Provost for Research, except in the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing, where a committee’s role is advisory to the School Dean and the Executive Vice President for Health. The Dean of the School of Medicine has established a Faculty Advisory Research Conflict of Interest Committee at the School of Medicine whose task is to review all referrals of disclosures of identified FCOI arising out of Research and Other Sponsored Projects conducted at or under the auspices of the School of Medicine or arising out of research studies requiring review by the School of Medicine's IRB under NYU policies. The Committee’s role is advisory to the Dean of the School of Medicine and Executive Vice President for Health. In addition to the Committees contemplated by the policy, each School Dean may establish separate conflict of interest committee(s), which may be faculty/Investigator advisory committees, to review other conflicts under the policies of the relevant School. 31 (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research The Provost has designated the Senior Vice Provost for Research as the Provost's representative for managing this addendum and its implementation at Schools other than the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Senior Vice Provost for Research will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health The Provost has designated the Executive Vice President for Health as the representative for managing this addendum and its implementation for the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Executive Vice President for Health will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) The School Deans are responsible for establishing procedures to implement this addendum, to provide any mandatory training, and to ensure timely collection and review of their Investigators’ Research and Other Sponsored Projects disclosures (including all research studies involving human subjects). School Deans will refer disclosures of potential, actual or perceived conflicts in accordance with the procedures of the School approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) and work, if necessary, with an applicable Committee or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), to ensure that all conflicts are eliminated or managed. Each School Dean will provide a report annually to the Provost (and also to the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) on their School’s compliance with this addendum. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the Investigators of that School, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of disclosures reporting FCOI, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Provost (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing). (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine In recognition of the unique significance of conflicts at an integrated academic medical center, the Provost and Executive Vice President for Health have delegated broad authority to the Dean of the School of Medicine to interpret the principles outlined in this addendum for implementation in connection with all matters under this addendum arising out of the School of Medicine and for all research studies involving human subject research reviewed by the School of Medicine’s IRB. As is the case for all NYU policies, the Dean of the School of Medicine may introduce additional restrictions to this addendum in order to implement the principles outlined above. The Dean of the School of Medicine will provide a report annually to the Provost and the Executive Vice President for Health on the School of Medicine’s compliance with this addendum. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the Investigators of the School of Medicine, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of 32 disclosures reporting FCOI, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Executive Vice President for Health. D. Appeals Should an Investigator wish to appeal a decision made by a School Dean on any matter contemplated by this addendum, the Investigator may present the appeal to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) who will consider the case in consultation with the School Dean and, at his or her discretion, the appropriate Committee contemplated by this addendum. E. Enforcement Violations of this addendum are considered violations of the policy and are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU, in accordance with the NYU disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective Investigator as set forth in the Faculty Handbook and/or the applicable NYU rules for the category of person involved, including in the applicable the policies and procedures of the relevant Schools. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, if there is a determination by the School Dean and/or the applicable Committee and/or Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) after review by the applicable Committee that the failure of an Investigator to comply with this addendum, including a conflict management or mitigation plan adopted pursuant to this addendum, has biased the design, conduct, or reporting of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the School Dean will promptly notify the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), who will coordinate notification of the project’s sponsor and any other potentially affected party, require other notifications (e.g., to journals and sponsors of public presentations) as appropriate, and take appropriate other actions to maintain appropriate objectivity in the Research and Other Sponsored Projects. In addition, in any case where such Research and Other Sponsored Projects’ purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device or treatment has been designed, conducted or reported by an Investigator with a FCOI that was not managed or reported to NYU as required, the School Dean, in consultation with the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), will require the Investigator involved to disclose the FCOI in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. F. Record Retention Records related to this addendum will be maintained in accordance with NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records Policy as in effect from time to time; provided, however, that records relating to Investigator financial interest disclosures and NYU’s review of, or response to, such disclosures (whether or not a disclosure resulted in a determination of a FCOI), will be maintained for at least three years from the date of submission of the final expenditures report (or such longer period as required by the federal sponsoring agency) on the applicable Research and Other Sponsored Projects even if a shorter retention period is specified under NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records 33 Policy. All records relating to Investigator financial interest disclosures and NYU’s review of, or response to, such disclosures will be retained either by the appropriate Dean or by the Faculty Advisory Committee, as applicable. V. EXAMPLES OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST The following are examples of specific Conflict of Interest arising out of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this addendum: (1) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept funding in support of his or her research from an entity in which the Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role. (2) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept research funding from an entity to assist in developing technologies owned by the entity where the Investigator engages in Consulting and receives Remuneration from the entity. (3) An Investigator proposes that NYU use or test a product made by an entity in which the Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Ownership Interest. (4) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept a Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program subcontract for research in the Investigator’s laboratory from a “small business” start up company founded by the Investigator and in which the Investigator has an Ownership Interest. (5) An Investigator proposes that NYU use or test in a clinical research study a product or process that is patented by NYU and as to which the Investigator receives Royalty Income pursuant to NYU's Statement of Policy on Patents.