per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the contractor can install flex hoses to circulate and then remove so that there is no possibility of leaving a bypass open. The hose bibs can also be used for high point vents or drains. The hot water return piping shall have an isolation ball valve downstream of the balancing valve. All reheat coils shall be supplied with union connections. Inlets to VAV at medium pressure ductwork shall not exceed 0.2” ESP or 2,000 FPM. Removable velocity wing sensor shall be provided if Anemostat is selected as the VAV box. Mutlitap transformers are not allowed in the control enclosure. Enclosures shall all be low voltage. Ensure enclosures are adequately size for BMS controllers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 441 2024 Approved Manufacturers Non Critical Applications: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus Approved Manufacturers Critical Applications: a. LCS 57. Variable Frequency Drives See Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) subsection 58. Variable Refrigerant Flow System (VRF) If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Outdoor Unit (Condenser) All variable refrigerant flow system (VRF) components shall be of the same manufacturer. The unit shall be factory assembled and prewired with all necessary electronic and refrigerant controls. The unit internal controls shall interface with the base building, building management system (BACnet, Modbus, etc.). All refrigerant and gas lines shall be insulated with Armorflex (1/2” or more). The unit shall be provided with a minimum of the following safety devices; high pressure switch, control circuit fuses, crankcase heaters, fusible plug, overload relay, inverter overload protector, thermal compressor protectors, thermal fan motor protectors, overcurrent protection for the inverter and anti short cycling timers. In the event of power failure the system shall store all settings and programs so reprogramming is not required. The system shall automatically restart operation after power failure. The compressor shall be hermetic digital scroll and the inverter shall permit a capacity control range from to . The outdoor fan shall be direct drive variable speed propeller type and configured for vertical discharge airflow. The fan motor shall have inherent protection and have permanently lubricated bearings. The condenser coil shall be copper tubes with mechanically bonded aluminum fins and aluminum end casings. The coils shall be applied with a corrosion resistant coating. Ensure refrigerant piping is brazed (do not use flux when brazing copper to copper refrigerant piping) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 442 2024 Branch Controller The branch controller shall have sufficient number of ports as required for connection to zoned equipment. The unit shall contain piping, valves, and controls to divert refrigerant controlling each port to operate in either a heating or cooling mode. Units shall be completely factory assembled, internally piped and wired. Branch controllers shall have factory installed control boards that interface with the VRF equipment controls and shall perform all functions to effectively and efficiently control simultaneous heat and cooling. Isolation valves shall be field supplied and installed for ease of service to the branch controller without evacuating the entire system refrigerant charge. Indoor Fan Coil Units The indoor fan coil unit shall be factory assembled, wired and run tested. Contained within the unit shall be all factory wiring, piping, electronic modulating linear expansion device, control circuit board and fan motor. The indoor fan coil unit shall have an auto restart function. Indoor fan coil unit and refrigerant pipes shall be charged with dehydrated air before shipment from the factory. The indoor fan coil unit shall be direct drive type with a minimum of three (3) fan speeds. The fan motor shall be ECM type. A condensate drain and pan shall be installed under the coil with leak detection device (in instances where condensate cannot be piped to drain). Provide a factory installed / wired condensate pump with integral check valve. Provide wall mounted programmable thermostat for each indoor fan coil unit (unless multiple units will be grouped and control to one (1) thermostat). Ensure all indoor fan coil unit DIP switches (local at each unit) are set to monitor room/space temperature (ceiling mounted units typically set to read return air temperature). Approved Manufacturers a. Daikin b. Mitsubishi c. Toshiba d. LG 59. Vibration Isolators Vibration isolators are to be installed on all rotating equipment including fans, air handling units, chillers, cooling towers, pumps, etc. Piping shall have braided vibration isolators unless piping is isolated with spring type isolators within a minimum of 50 feet of pump. All piping in a mechanical plant shall be isolated with spring type isolators. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 443 2024 60. Water Filtration Sand filtration shall be installed on Condenser Water. All other systems shall have pot feeders. Sand filters shall have backwash capabilities. All water filtration to be capable of filtering a minimum of of total flow. Pot feeders to have 5 micron filtration with a coupon rack. All water filtration shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ameri Water b. Chemworks c. Diamond Water Systems, Inc. 61. Waterproof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Link Seal b. Zurn 62. Water Treatment/Cleaning Open loop systems shall have an automatic chemical feed with integral controls. Closed loop systems shall have a manual bypass feeder system. All chemicals are to be recommended by the water treatment system manufacturer. Chemicals shall be compatible with the piping system and components. A water analysis shall be performed to determine quality of water. Any new equipment or piping needs to be pre cleaned to remove the oils of manufacture, which can be accomplished with an alkaline phosphate cleaner supplied by the water treatment supplier. It is necessary that all valves and fan coil units in the system be opened to flow during the cleaning process. The cleaning process shall be as follows: • All coils shall be bypassed for the first two hours of a flush and then opened to flow through the coils for the rest of the flush. • System shall be filled with fresh water and then circulated with all process and booster pumps running. • Alkaline phosphate detergent shall be added following the manufacturer’s instructions concerning the correct dosage. It may be necessary to add de foamer in some instances. • System shall be circulated for a minimum of four hours, and hourly flushed all low point drains to remove any suspended solids that may have been displaced. • Upon completion of the cleaning, system shall be drained and refilled with fresh water. Fresh water shall be circulated for 20 minutes and then bled heavily until the water is clear and free of foam. Flushing shall continue until the ortho phosphate level is within 1 PPM of that of the city water and the conductivity is NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 444 2024 close to that of the make up water. If the flushing occurs over an extended period in time (more than 24 hours), the flush water should be treated water. • The system shall be immediately sterilized by maintaining a minimum of 1 PPM as free halogen for one hour and then treated to passivate the clean metallurgies. Systems containing copper should be treated with azole levels of 20 PPM as a minimum. Molybdenum should be used to passivate mild steel piping by achieving a minimum of 50 PPM. The recommended inhibitor levels must be maintained for 24 hours. Systems that are having piping added that cannot be isolated for alkaline phosphate cleaning must have a surfactant added for 48 hours. Systems that are having galvanized towers added must undergo a white rust passivation step for the first 90 days of operation. Flushing and cleaning is allowed through new construction house pumps. Flushing and cleaning is not allowed through existing house pumps. It shall be the responsibility of the flushing and cleaning contractor to provide a pump sized properly for the system to be flushed. The engineer shall write into the project specifications for the flushing procedure to indicate locations of all hose bypasses or permanent piped bypasses on a drawing and attach to the report. After flushing is completed there shall be a sign off sheet indicating the flushing contractor, CM/GC and the CxA have walked every bypass location and confirmed the hose has been removed and the valves are closed. This sign off sheet shall also be attached to the report. Approved Manufacturers: a. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. END OF MECHANICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 445 2024 3. ELECTRICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. I. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code and Local Electrical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. All connections to be done with double hole lugs (long barrel) and utilize compression type copper connectors. If this is not possible, the design scheme shall be discussed and approved by Facilities Operations. II. Emergency Power a. Emergency Power shall be provided per NFPA Standards, Joint Commission Standards, CMS Standards and New York City Electrical Code requirements. Emergency power to be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. III. Design criteria for sizing power risers and (connected load) electric panels a. Administration/Office: 5.0 W/sq.ft. b. Clinical Office/Exam: 5.0 W/sq.ft. c. Storage: 1.5 W/sq.ft. d. Laboratories (Basic Research): 50 W/sq.ft. e. Support Areas: 12.5 W/sq.ft. f. Technology Rooms: 50 W/sq.ft. g. Procedure Rooms: 30 W/sq.ft. h. Specialty Rooms: 3 W/sq.ft. i. Offices: 6 W/sq.ft. j. Seminar and Classrooms: 4 W/sq.ft. k. Lobby: 6 W/sq.ft. l. Mechanical Rooms: 2.5 W/sq.ft. (Lighting and Small Power) m. Lounge/Waiting Area: 4 W/sq.ft. n. Café/Cafeteria: 15 W/sq.ft. o. Kitchen: 20 W/sq.ft. IV. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 446 2024 b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Technology spaces shall have a color temperature of 4000K. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. excess attic stock shall be provided for integrated, architectural LED fixtures (i.e. fixtures that need to be replaced entirely after failure). V. Distribution a. All power loads, such as elevators, motor control centers, etc., shall operate at 480/277 volts and shall be connected to distribution switchboards with single or multiple conduit and cable feeders. b. Unless serving specialty equipment/lighting, receptacles as well as fluorescent and incandescent lighting shall be wired to 120 or 277 volt circuits. c. All conduits shall be run concealed in finished areas and exposed in Machine Rooms and Electrical Rooms. d. All lighting circuits shall emanate from lighting panels and power circuits from power panels. Lighting and Power circuits shall not be mixed in the same panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 447 2024 C. Electrical Naming Convention COORDINATE NOMENCLATURE WITH NYU LANGONE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER PRIOR TO LABELING OR RE LABELING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATIONS. I. Generator Panel Naming Scheme Example: PPH G4 HCC CE1 PPH G4 HCC CE1Panel #LocationN,S,E,WA,B,C,DFloor LevelBuilding NameEB Energy BuildingSB Science BuildingKP Kimmel PavilionTH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care CenterSKB Skirball660 660 1st AveGBH Greenberg HallSML SmilowMIL MilhauserGenerator PlantG0 Reserved for Future UseG1 Kimmel PavilionG2 SkirballG3 Science BuildingG4 HCCG5 SmilowG6 Energy BuildingG7 660G8 GBHG9 Outpatient Surgical CenterG10 VZ 30th StreetPanel TypeDPH Distribution Panelboard480V / 277VPPH Power Panel480V / 277VLPH Lighting Panel480V / 277VLP Lighting Panel120V / 208VPP Power Panel120V / 208VRP Receptacle Panel120V / 208V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 448 2024 II. Normal Power Panel Naming Scheme Example: SS PES HCC CE1 SS PES HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery Primary Electric Service Normal Panel Type SSH Service Switchboard 460V / 265V DPH Distribution Panelboard 460V / 265V LPH Lighting Panel 460V / 265V PPH Power Panel 460V / 265V SS Service Switchboard 120V / 208V DP Distribution Panelboard 120V / 208V LP Lighting Panel 120V / 208V PP Power Panel 120V / 208V RP Receptacle Panel 120V / 208V BD Bus Duct DESS Double Ended Substation NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 449 2024 III. UPS Naming Scheme Example: TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B1 TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B 1 Panel # System A or B Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street UPS System Number 1 HCC Cellar 2 Smilow Ground Floor Telephone Switch Room 3 Tisch Ground Floor MUX Room 4 Tisch Ground Floor Communications Room 5 Energy Building 6 Kimmel Pavilion 7 South TER/DR 8 Science Building UPS Panel Types TDP Technology Distribution Board 120/280V TPP Technology Power Panel 120/280V TDPH Technology Distribution Panel 480/277V MDSH Medical Distribution Switchboard 480/277V MDPH Medical Distribution Panel 480/277V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 450 2024 IV. Emergency Panel Naming Scheme Example: LS PP G4 61 HCC CE1 LS PP G4 61 HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street Panel Type DPH Distribution Panel 480/277V PPH Power Panel 480/277V LPH Lighting Panel 480/277V LP Lighting Panel 120/208V PP Power Panel 120/208V RP Receptacle Panel 120/208V Panel System LS Emergency (Article 517 Life Safety) in Patient Care Buildings and Life Safety in Non Patient CR Patient Critical (Article 517) EM Standby (Includes Article 517 Required Mechanical Loads) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 451 2024 V. Bus Duct Naming Scheme Example: BD KP CR 1B2 BD KP CR 1 B 2 Panel # Location A,B,C,D Starting Floor Type N Normal CR Patient Critical EM Equipment LS Life Safety Building Name KP Kimmel Pavilion SB Science Building Bus Duct D. Various I. The following is a list of electrical gear that shall have heat runs/burn ins performed prior to turnover. All burn ins/heat runs shall be at rated load (full load). Infrared scanning shall be provided during the entire burn time. a. Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) 12 hour burn in b. Uninterruptible Power Supply Rack Type 30 minute burn in c. Automatic Transfer Switch (ATS) 4 Hour Burn In d. Static Transfer Switch (STS) 12 hour Burn In e. Generator 12 hours f. Power Conditioner 8 hour burn in II. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel. 1) Generators 2) Medium Voltage Transformers 3) Paralleling Gear 4) Uninterruptable Power Supply (30kVA and above) 5) Double Ended Substation 6) Power Conditioner 7) Static Transfer Switch 8) Medium Voltage Switches 9) Transformer 1,000 kVa or higher III. Proper wire color schemes shall be used for all panels. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 452 2024 IV. Isolated Ground (IG) receptacles are not allowed. If project team deems IG receptacles are necessary, engineer to discuss with Facilities Management. V. All emergency power shall be in conduit. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. VII. All grounding to building steel shall be exothermically welded. VIII. Insulation resistance testing shall be required on 2 AWG and larger. Readings shall be taken every 15 seconds for one minute using an AEMC 1060 tester or equivalent. Infinity values shall not be accepted. IX. Aluminum feeders are not allowed. E. Equipment 1. Automatic Transfer Switches Depending on application, ATS shall be bypass isolation type with load shedding capabilities. Non bypass isolation is an option on a case by case basis. This shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. A full monitoring package on all phases, KW, Voltage and Amperage shall be designed. All ATS connected to cogeneration shall be delayed transition type. Each ATS must include communication package that can communicated with sitewide CPMS. Each ATS must also allow for the acceptance of a permissive signal for retransfer to be received from the cogeneration plant. Engineer to add specifications testing section: • 4 hour full load burn in. One hour each for the following: Normal, Normal Bypass, Emergency, Emergency Bypass. i. At 30 minute intervals, record voltage, frequency, load current. ii. Provide resistive load bank and all necessary temporary cables and connections for full load test. • Simulate Power Failure Approved Manufacturers: a. Asco 2. Busway and Accessories Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric "Spectra Series" b. Siemens NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 453 2024 3. Cable Pulling Lubricants Cable pulling lubricant shall not be used on isolated power systems. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Polywater Corporation Type "J" b. Electro Compound Company "Poly Ease" or "Y ER Ease" c. Ideal Industries "Wire Lube" 4. Cable Tray and Fittings Approved Manufacturers: a. Atlas b. Burndy c. Cooper B Line Systems d. M.P. Husky Corp. e. P W Industries f. Legrand 5. Clocks In procedure areas clocks shall be wireless, synchronized, digital, and power over Ethernet. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sapling 6. Dry type Transformers Factory testing shall be provided on medium voltage transformers and shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 454 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Hammond Power Solutions c. Jefferson Magnetek d. Siemens e. Rex Transformers f. ABB 7. Electric Heating Cable Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. Chromalox b. Raychem 8. Electrical Conductors, Copper, 600 Volt or Less All shall be UL Listed. All conductors shall be true color through entire length. Wrapping in color tape at terminations is not allowed. MI cable and VITALink cable is allowed anywhere a 2 hour fire rating is required. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Insulated Wire b. General Cable/Cablec c. Prysmian d. Southwire 9. Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allied Tube & Conduit/Tyco b. Republic c. Robroy Industries d. Triangle e. Western f. Wheatland 10. Electronic Fluorescent Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. MagneTek c. Universal NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 455 2024 11. Electronic Fluorescent Dimming Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. Lutron c. Universal 12. Electronic Dimming System Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper c. Legrand 13. Enclosed Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Siemens c. Square D 14. Exit Signs Exit signs shall meet the NYC Energy Code wattage requirements Approved Manufacturers: a. Chloride by Signify Caliber Series Edge Lit LEDEncore 15. Fire Detection, Alarm and Communication See Fire Alarm Guidelines 16. Flexible Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. AFC b. ALFLEX c. American Metal Molding d. Anaconda e. Cerro f. International Metal Hose NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 456 2024 17. Flexible Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton b. Efcor c. Midwest d. OZ/Gedney e. Raco/Hubbell f. Steel City/Thomas & Betts 18. Fluorescent Lamps See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further design information. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric 3500°K. T 5 19. Fuses Approved Manufacturers: a. Ferraz Shawmut Amp Trap 2,000 with a fuse window b. Cooper Bussmann 20. Generator If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Generators shall be provided with a generator monitoring system. Manhattan main campus building monitoring system is a Monico System. Factory testing shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NFPA 37 and NFPA 110 Standards. All new generators ordered for sites in NY, NJ and CT shall be EPA Tier 4. Roll up generator connections are required for all properties that have permanent generators. These connections shall be design and installed with kirk keys to prevent accidental switching. Approved Manufacturers: a. Caterpillar b. Cummins c. Kinsley Kohler NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 457 2024 21. Heat Trace All outdoor piping containing fluid shall be heat traced. Heat trace shall be monitored by the building automation system. Heat trace shall turn on by main outdoor air temperature sensor. Alarm shall be sent to BMS when heat trace is to turn on but there is no current flow or heat trace monitoring panel shows there is an error. Heat trace shall not turn on via its own controller. Approved Manufacturers: a. Nelson b. Raychem c. Chromalox 22. High Intensity Discharge Lamps Not allowed. 23. LED Light Fixtures See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further information. LED Fixtures to be approved on a project to project basis. All LED fixtures to be 3500K. Chipset must be Phillips. In IDF and BDF closets, lighting shall be 4,000K. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Phillips (Tubes) c. RAB Lighting (Panels) d. Metalux 24. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In IDF and BDF closets lighting shall be 4,000K. d. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. e. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 458 2024 f. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. g. Ultrasonic sensors are not allowed in/near animal holding, animal procedure areas, corridors outside holding/procedure areas, or adjacent spaces. Only infrared type sensors are allowed in these spaces. h. Lighting shall be supported with chain connections or aircraft cable to bottom of deck or to black iron ceiling supports. 25. Lighting Controls To be reviewed with Facilities. Lighting control networks shall reside on the MCIT network with interconnection to the BMS network. Coordinate with MCIT. Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper c. Legrand 26. Line Voltage Switches, Wall Plates, and Coverplates Stainless steel finish plates shall be used in all patient areas. Hospital grade type shall be used in all areas of the facility (non patient and patient areas) Approved Manufacturers: a. Hubbell b. Legrand 27. Liquid tight Flexible Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Brass Company b. Anaconda (Type “UA”) c. Electri Flex Company 28. Liquid tight Flexible Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Brass Company b. Midwest c. O.Z./Gedney NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 459 2024 29. Motor Control Centers Pilot lights shall be LED. Lamp test button shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allen Bradley b. General Electric c. Siemens 30. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Refer to Mechanical subsection Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) for design requirements. 31. Multi outlet Assemblies Information Technology multi outlet assemblies shall comply to NYU Langone Health IT Design Standards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Legrand 32. Outlets and Boxes Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton Electric Company b. Midland Ross c. Raco d. Steel City/Thomas & Betts e. Thepitt 33. Overcurrent Protective Devices All field adjustable breakers 100 750 amperes shall be secondary injection tested. All field adjustable breakers over 750 amperes shall be primary injection tested. Approved Manufacturers: a. Eaton b. General Electric c. Square D d. Siemens NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 460 2024 34. Panelboard All panels shall have a local main breaker, double hinged door and a locking #47 key cover. Panels to have an arc flash study performed and coordinated. Circuit breakers directories must be populated and accurate. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Switchboard b. All City Switchboard c. Atlas Switchboard d. Electrotech e. Lincoln Electric Co. 35. Receptacles All receptacles shall be hospital grade and illuminated. Receptacle coverplates shall be stainless steel finish plates with high quality stickers showing panel and breaker designation. Hospital grade type shall be used in all areas of the facility (non patient and patient areas). Switched outlets shall have labeling on receptacle coverplate stating “Receptacle shuts off when no one present; plug in cellphones or laptops only.” Receptacles shall be consistent in orientation with ground facing upwards. In addition to any other code requirements, all receptacles that are accessible to the general public shall be tamper proof. Normal Power color shall be gray, duplex and illuminated face. Emergency power shall be red, duplex and illuminated face. Emergency receptacles shall be located in main service electrical rooms, substation rooms, ATS rooms, emergency paralleling switchgear rooms, and fuel oil pump rooms. Duplex emergency receptacles shall be located next to each sump and ejector pit. All receptacles must be GFCI type within 6 feet of edge of sink and emergency shower / eye wash stations. Do not install outlets below a fire extinguisher, eye wash or safety shower. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hubbell b. Legrand NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 461 2024 36. Rigid Aluminum Conduit and Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Alcoa b. Anchor Harvey c. Harvey d. Kaiser e. Reynolds 37. Rigid Nonmetallic Electrical Conduit and Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Carlon/Lamson & Sessions b. Certainteed c. Triangle 38. Rigid Steel Conduit and Fittings (exposed to the weather) All shall be UL Listed. PVC coated rigid steal conduits allowed only in outdoor applications or chemical areas. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ocal Inc. b. Occidental Coating Company c. Perma Cote d. Robroy Industries "Plasti Bond Red" e. Triangle 39. Rigid Steel and Intermediate Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allied b. Republic c. Triangle d. Western e. Wheatland 40. Rigid Steel and Intermediate Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton b. Cooper Crouse Hinds c. Efcor d. Midwest NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 462 2024 e. O.Z./Gedney f. Raco/Hubbell g. Spring City h. Steel City/Thomas & Betts i. Thomas & Betts 41. Service Switch Assemblies and Distribution Switchboards Approved Manufacturers: a. American Switchboard b. All City Switchboard c. Atlas Switchboard d. Electrotech e. Lincoln Electric Co. f. Eaton g. Square D 42. Submetering and Power Quality Metering When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new electrical feed shall be similarly metered. Approved Manufacturers: a. Siemens b. Ion/Schneider c. General Electric d. PQube e. Satec 43. System Identification Equipment Labels shall conform to equipment nomenclature found within these design guidelines and shall be engraved plastic nameplates with a black surface and white core with engraved letters for normal power and red surface and white core for emergency power. Engraved lettering shall be a minimum of 2” in letter height for: Panels Disconnect switches Main Switch boards ATS Transformers UPS All boxes (splice, pull, junction etc.) shall be labelled with source and load. Distribution branch circuits shall have ½” lettering. Conduit and cable labelling identifying the circuit designation shall be every 5’ in concealed areas and 10’ in un concealed areas. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 463 2024 Raceway identification color coding shall be provided as follows:Normal Power White on Black TEXT Emergency Power, Fire Alarm, ATS/MTSWhite on Red TEXT Life Safety Branch White on Red TEXT Critical Branch White on Blue TEXT Optional Standby Systems White on Blue TEXT UPS Black on Yellow TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT 44. Transient Voltage Surge Suppression Surge suppression shall be integral to electrical panels located in IDF and BDF rooms. The surge suppression device shall be located in the electrical panel and not a separate device. All real estate properties shall have surge suppression installed on main panelboards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Current Technology b. General Electric c. Liebert d. United Technologies e. ABB 45. Type "AC" (Armored Cable) Conductor Cables, 600 Volts or Less All shall be UL Listed. Armored