entity or company as a vendor or business partner of NYU (or as a supplier of goods or services to NYU faculty, employees, students, alumni or patients) or the subsequent award or administration; (d) The Outside Activities are conducted on an arm’s length basis at fair market value; and (e) NYU determines in accordance with Section V of this policy that the Conflict of Interest is not inconsistent with the best interests of NYU. Where a Conflict of Interest arising from a faculty member’s or Investigator’s Outside Activities is permitted, the permission may be conditioned on adherence to a specified management plan. E. Training All NYU faculty members and Investigators need to be familiar with this policy and may be required by their School Dean or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) to complete training regarding this policy and their responsibilities regarding activities that may constitute a Conflict of Interest. V. PROCEDURES: DISCLOSURES, REVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility in the first instance for determining whether an activity presents a Conflict of Commitment or Conflict of Interest rests with the faculty member or Investigator concerned. If there is any reasonable doubt as to whether an activity may constitute such a conflict, or there is a question about whether an activity is permitted under this policy, the faculty member or Investigator must disclose the actual, potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, or the office of the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry, and Nursing) or the Office of the General Counsel. 15 Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. A. Disclosures (1) Faculty and Other Investigators: Annual Disclosures On an annual basis, all full time faculty, persons identified by the Office of the Provost as Investigators (through processes it determines) and others as requested by a School Dean or the Office of the Provost must complete and submit to their School Dean the applicable annual disclosure form then in effect, which form will refer faculty and Investigators and, where applicable, others to this policy and any related policies of the applicable School (including the availability of this policy and any applicable School policy on the NYU website). Such annual disclosure form requires, among other matters: (a) certification of compliance with this policy and related policies of the applicable School; (b) disclosure of information about the faculty member’s or Investigator’s or other’s (and his or her Immediate Family Members) Outside Activities and other personal, professional, financial, ownership or other interests (including Ownership Interests and Remuneration) that could reasonably be relevant to assessing whether there might be a Conflict of Interest as described in Section IV of this policy and in the Addendum for Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects; and (c) in the case of faculty, disclosure of information pertinent to a Conflict of Commitment as described in Section III of this policy. Unless required under the implementation of this Policy by the faculty member’s School, disclosures of uncompensated scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars sponsored by governmental or non profit entities, service on advisory committees or review panels for government or non profit entities, including professional associations, and services on the editorial board of a journal in the field of the faculty member’s appointment, will not be required in the annual disclosure form. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section V.B below. (2) Faculty and Other Investigators: Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements Each time a faculty member or other Investigator is planning to participate in proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the faculty member and each other Investigator involved with the proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects must make the disclosures required by Section IV.A of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (3) Faculty and Other Investigators: Ad Hoc Disclosures Faculty members and Investigators have a duty to disclose to the School Dean on an ad hoc basis current, proposed or pending situations that may raise questions of Conflict of Commitment or Conflict of Interest, in advance of the conflict arising if possible, and otherwise as soon as such situations become known to the faculty member or Investigator. Each time a faculty member or Investigator proposes to engage in a transaction (e.g., gift, technology licensing arrangement, purchase, etc.) with a person or entity as to which the faculty member or Investigator would have a Conflict of Interest as described in Section IV of this policy, the faculty member or Investigator must disclose the matter to the School Dean on an ad hoc basis. 16 NYU may require a faculty member or Investigator to complete an ad hoc conflict disclosure form at any time. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section V.B below. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. B. Review Procedures (1) Review of Annual and Ad Hoc Disclosures Annual disclosures and ad hoc disclosures will be reviewed by the School Dean in accordance with the procedures approved for the School by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). Such procedures may provide that the School Dean forward any disclosure that presents a Conflict of Interest or a Conflict of Commitment to a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment, as described in Section V.C. below (a “Committee”). For any matter referred to it, the Committee will make a recommendation to the School Dean and/or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) regarding the existence and extent of a Conflict of Interest and, as appropriate, a proposed resolution to manage or eliminate any Conflict. See Section IV.B. above regarding the management of Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. (2) Review of Research and Other Sponsored Projects Disclosures Disclosures associated with Research and Other Sponsored Projects will be reviewed in accordance with Section IV.B of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Conflicts must be disclosed in writing; and any waiver of the conflict or management plan must be reduced to writing. C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment The Provost may establish a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment when the Provost believes it would be useful to do so; a School Dean or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the EVP for Health with respect to the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) may ask the Provost to establish such a Committee when the person believes such a Committee would be useful. The task of such a Committee may include reviewing all referrals of identified Conflict of Interest or Conflict of Commitment that have been referred by School Deans or another source in accordance with this policy. A Committee’s role is advisory to the School Deans and to the Senior Vice Provost for Research, except in the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing, where the Committee’s role is advisory to the School Dean and the Executive Vice President for Health. In addition to the Committees contemplated by this policy, each School Dean may establish separate conflict of interest committee(s), which may be faculty/Investigator advisory committees, to review other conflicts under the policies of the relevant School. 17 (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research The Provost has designated the Senior Vice Provost for Research as the Provost's representative for managing this policy and its implementation at Schools other than the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Senior Vice Provost for Research will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health The Provost has designated the Executive Vice President for Health as the representative for managing this policy and its implementation for the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Executive Vice President for Health will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) The School Deans are responsible for establishing procedures to implement this policy, to provide any mandatory training, and to ensure timely collection and review of their faculty's and Investigators’ annual and ad hoc disclosures. School Deans will refer disclosures of actual, potential or appearance of conflicts in accordance with the procedures of the School approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) and work, if necessary, with an applicable Committee or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), to ensure that all conflicts are eliminated or managed. Each School Dean will provide a report annually to the Provost (and also to the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) on their School’s compliance with this policy. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the faculty and other Investigators of that School, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of disclosures reporting Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Provost (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing). (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine In recognition of the unique significance of conflicts at an integrated academic medical center, the Provost and Executive Vice President for Health have delegated broad authority to the Dean of the School of Medicine to interpret the principles outlined in this policy for implementation in connection with all matters under this policy arising out of the School of Medicine. As is the case for all NYU policies, the Dean of the School of Medicine may introduce additional restrictions to this policy in order to implement the principles outlined above. The Dean of the School of Medicine will provide a report annually to the Provost and the Executive Vice President for Health on the School of Medicine’s compliance with this policy. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the faculty and other Investigators of the School of Medicine, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the 18 number of disclosures reporting Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Executive Vice President for Health. D. Appeals Should a faculty member or an Investigator or other person a School Dean or the Office of the Provost has made subject to this policy wish to appeal a decision made by a School Dean on any matter contemplated by this policy, the faculty member or Investigator or other person may present the appeal to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), who will consider the case in consultation with the School Dean and, at his or her discretion, an appropriate Committee as contemplated by this policy. E. Enforcement Violations of this policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU, in accordance with the NYU disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective faculty member or Investigator as set forth in the Faculty Handbook and/or the applicable NYU rules for the category of person involved, including in the applicable policies and procedures of the relevant Schools. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, additional enforcement provisions are set forth in Section IV.E. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. F. Record Retention Records related to this policy will be maintained in accordance with NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records Policy as in effect from time to time. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, additional record retention requirements are set forth in Section IV.F. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. 19 Exhibit A Examples of Conflict of Interest The following are examples of specific Conflicts of Interest intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in Section IV above: Additional examples of Conflicts of Interest are set forth in Section V. of the Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (1) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to take a Consulting position to assist an organization that seeks to compete directly with an NYU program. For example, a faculty member in the School of Medicine proposes to take a Consulting position with a major academic medical center in NYC in a clinical area that competes directly with NYU or a faculty member proposes to take a Consulting position to assist a major university in its efforts to establish a campus that would compete with one of NYU’s comprehensive campuses. (2) A faculty member or Investigator accepts a payment from a company with which the faculty member or Investigator recommends NYU contract. (3) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU enter into a business transaction with an entity in which the faculty member or Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Ownership Interest. (4) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU use or purchase a product, which would result in an economic benefit to the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family. For example, a faculty member advocates the use of software the faculty member created prior to joining NYU and as to which the faculty member receives a royalty based on the commercial use of the software. (5) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to accept a gift (which includes entertainment) from an entity that is seeking to sell a product to NYU and as to which the faculty member's or Investigator’s view of the product may be solicited before a purchasing decision is made by NYU. (6) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU enter into a technology licensing arrangement with an entity in which the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family Member serves on the board of directors or is employed. (7) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU hire or contract with a member of his or her family for a position that is within his or her direct or indirect supervision or control. NYU’s employment of a family member must be in accordance with NYU’s Policy on the Employment of Members of the Same Family. (8) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to undertake or orient his or her research at NYU to serve the private interests of an outside firm without disclosure and permission. (9) A faculty member or Investigator proposes to share unpublished data from NYU research with a company as part of a consulting engagement or in discussions about a proposed consulting engagement. 20 (10) A student is a principal in a company and offers his or her professor compensated work with that company, or offers to engage the professor after the course is completed. (11) A faculty member or Investigator proposes that NYU offer its employees or alumni an insurance policy with a company in which the faculty member or Investigator or an Immediate Family Member serves on the board of directors. 21 Exhibit B Addendum on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects This addendum supplements the Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment (referred to in this Addendum as the “policy”) with respect to Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. It is intended, without reference to the other provisions of the policy or other NYU policies, to meet NYU’s obligations to maintain a policy on financial conflicts of interest in research funded by federal sponsoring agencies (including the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Science Foundation). This addendum applies to all Investigators of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, where “Research and Other Sponsored Projects” means research projects conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and externally funded training or professional service projects conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, and “Investigator” means the principal investigators or program directors, and any other persons, regardless of title or position, who are responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of such projects, or who propose funding for such projects including both members of the University Community and persons doing the foregoing for subgrantees, contractors, collaborators, or consultants. Most but not all Investigators are NYU faculty members. The principles set forth herein also may serve to provide guidance in analogous non research situations. I. GENERAL PRINCIPLES NYU has a strong commitment to the principle of open and objective inquiry in the conduct of its research. Investigators participating in research at NYU have a primary obligation to conduct the research free of a Conflict of Interest so as to avoid the tainting or the perception of tainting of the research. Individual Schools may wish to supplement this addendum with policies applicable to their Investigators. To ensure consistency with NYU policies, such School policies must be approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). II. DEFINITIONS References in this addendum to the policy refer to the Policy on Academic Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment. For purposes of this addendum, terms have the meaning as set forth in the policy unless separately defined in this addendum. A Conflict of Interest, as discussed in greater detail in the policy, means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial or other interests of an individual (including the Immediate Family Members of the individual) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may be reasonably perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her professional obligations to NYU and the interests of NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the individual's professional actions or decisions, including the ethical and objective 22 conduct of scholarship, research or clinical care, are determined by considerations of personal gain, financial or otherwise. Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role means a position involving service, in either a personal or representative capacity, as an employee, executive, manager, officer, director, trustee, or equivalent in a business, enterprise or entity other than NYU or an entity that is or more owned or controlled by NYU. FCOI or Financial Conflict of Interest means a Significant Financial Interest that could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct or reporting of a specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects. An FCOI is a Conflict of Interest under the policy. Immediate Family Members include an individual’s spouse or domestic partner or person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, and any other family members residing in the same household. Institutional Responsibilities means an Investigator’s professional responsibilities on behalf of NYU, including research, research consultation, teaching, professional practice, institutional committee memberships, and service on panels such as institutional review boards or data and safety monitoring boards. Principal Investigator, Project Director or Program Director is the person with primary responsibility for the design, conduct, or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for identifying other Investigators on their specific research project at or under the auspices of NYU. All Principal Investigators are NYU faculty members or NYU employees who have been granted an exception under NYU Code 103 Policy Addendum at the Washington Square campus. All Principal Investigators are Investigators. Investigator means any person, including the Principal Investigator, regardless of title or position, who is responsible for the design, conduct or reporting of Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. For purposes of this addendum, Investigator also includes outside persons who are responsible for doing any of the foregoing for subgrantees, contractors, collaborators or consultants of NYU Research and Other Sponsored Projects as determined by the applicable School in consultation with the applicable principal investigator or program director. Section III of this addendum outlines the circumstances under which such external Investigators will be required to comply with the pertinent portions of this addendum. Most, but not all, Investigators are NYU faculty members. NYU includes the Schools and other units of NYU, NYU’s Global Network University sites, and all University Affiliates (as each term is defined in NYU’s Developing University Policies, as amended from time to time). Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any Research and Other Sponsored Projects that is not funded or proposed to be funded by PHS through any of its organizational units. Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects will become PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects if, at any time, PHS funding is obtained or proposed. 23 Outside Activities include any external, remunerated consulting involving an individual’s professional competence or other business activities and external professional and academic endeavors, such as public service or pro bono work, performed outside of the faculty member’s appointment to NYU or an Investigator’s employment or association with NYU. Ownership Interest means holding a financial or ownership interest in a business or entity, including stock, stock option, warrant, convertible debt, partnership interest, LLP/LLC interest, or other ownership interest or right to obtain an ownership interest. The value of an Ownership Interest is determined through reference to public prices or other reasonable measures of fair market value where public prices are not available. PHS means the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and any components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated, including the National Institutes of Health (NIH). PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any Research and Other Sponsored Projects funded (or proposed to be funded) in whole or in part by PHS through any of its organizational units. PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects are subject to the PHS Regulations. PHS Regulations means the regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) entitled “Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought,” (see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/coi/), as the same may be amended from time to time. Reimbursed or Sponsored Travel (applies ONLY to PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS regulations) means any reimbursed or sponsored travel (i.e. that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to the Investigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available) related to institutional responsibilities, when aggregated with other financial interests per entity exceeds $5,000 in the 12 months prior to disclosure. Excludes travel reimbursed or sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. Remuneration includes salary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees, honoraria, paid editorial or authorship activities). Income for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU from seminars, lectures, teaching engagements or service on advisory committees or review panels sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, or an institution of higher education, an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education, for scholarly and professional activities performed in connection with a faculty member’s appointment to NYU, such as lectures or seminars, editorial or authorship activities, service on advisory committees or review panels (including professional associations), are excluded from the definition of Remuneration. 24 Research and Other Sponsored Projects means any research project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not externally funded, and any externally funded training or professional service project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any systematic investigation, study or experiment designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, including basic and applied research (e.g., a published article, book or book chapter) and product development (e.g., a diagnostic test, drug or device), and non research projects such as training, clinical services, educational conferences, exhibitions, performances, archives, workshops, and library projects for which external funding is received. Research and Other Sponsored Projects includes any such activity for which funding is available from external sources through a grant, contract or agreement, including, but not limited to, research grants, career development awards, center grants, individual fellowship awards, infrastructure awards, institutional training grants, program projects and research resources awards. Royalty Income means any royalty income, licensing income or other proceeds (e.g., payments linked to product sales or other usage and milestone payments), or the written contractual right to receive future royalties, licensing income or other proceeds, directly or indirectly, under a pending or issued patent, license, copyright or other property right, and includes, for purpose of this policy, all income received by the person from NYU in accordance with NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents. School means each NYU school, college and institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant, CUSP, and the SoE), each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai) and also may include for purposes of this policy other global sites as designated by the Provost. School Dean means the dean, or his or her designee, of each NYU school and college, the director or each NYU institute that functions similarly to a school or college (such as IFA, ISAW, Courant and CUSP) and the Vice Chancellor of each NYU comprehensive campus (such as New York and Abu Dhabi). In the case of other NYU global sites that have faculty and/or Investigators, the Provost may designate someone to fulfill some or all of the duties of a School Dean as described herein with respect to such global sites. Significant Financial Interest has a different meaning for PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms than it has for other Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects. A. Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations For PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and for Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms, Significant Financial Interest means any financial interest consisting of one or more of the following interests of an Investigator (which also includes those of the Investigator’s Immediate Family Members) that reasonably appears to be related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU: 25 (1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, a Significant Financial Interest exists if the value of any Remuneration and estimated travel reimbursement and travel paid from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and the value of any Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000; or (2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, a Significant Financial Interest exists if (i) the value of Remuneration and estimated travel reimbursement and travel paid from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) there is any Ownership Interest in the entity; or (3) Intellectual property rights (e.g., patents or copyrights), royalties from such rights and agreements to share in royalties related to such rights, upon receipt of the Royalty Income related to such rights and interests. B. Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects that do not incorporate the PHS Regulations For Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects that do not incorporate the PHS Regulations, Significant Financial Interest means a financial interest consisting of one of more of the following interests of an Investigator (which also includes those of the Investigator’s Immediate Family Members) in an entity other than NYU that could reasonably appear to be affected by, or might in turn affect, the Non PHS Research and Other Sponsored Projects: (1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, the value of any Remuneration from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and the value of any Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) the Ownership Interest as of the date of disclosure exceeds five percent () in any class of the entity’s securities; or (2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, (i) the value of Remuneration from Outside Activities received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or (ii) there is any Ownership Interest in the entity; or (3) Intellectual property rights (e.g., patents or copyrights), royalties from such rights, and agreements to share in royalties related to such rights; or C. Both PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects For both PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects and Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the following types of financial interests are excluded from the definition of Significant Financial Interest: (1) Salary, royalties, or other remuneration paid by NYU while the recipient is currently employed or otherwise appointed by NYU; (2) Income from diversified investment vehicles, such as broad based mutual funds and exchange traded funds, as long as the Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family members, collectively, do 26 not have a or greater direct or indirect interest in the vehicle and do not have an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role in the vehicle; (3) Income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education; (4) Income from service on advisory committees or review panels for a federal, state, or local government agency, or an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education; and (5) Interests in and Remuneration from a publicly traded entity where the total aggregate value of (a) Remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months preceding the disclosure and (b) Ownership Interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure is less than $5,000, provided that the Ownership Interest also is less than five percent () in any class of the entity’s securities. III. POLICY AND DISCUSSION As with all Conflicts of Interest, NYU has broad power to require disclosures of FCOI arising out of Research and Other Sponsored Projects to determine whether a FCOI exists, to investigate FCOI, to manage or eliminate FCOI, to ensure, to the extent possible, that the design, conduct, and reporting of research will be free from bias, to impose appropriate sanctions on Investigators who violate this addendum, to release information about FCOI and to require Investigators to take FCOI training. By way of example, the types of management actions that NYU may take in response to a FCOI arising out of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects include: reviewing and, where appropriate, monitoring the conflict; imposing conditions or restrictions intended to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflict; requiring disclosure of the FCOI or of additional information (e.g., requiring disclosure of the FCOI when presenting or publishing the research or requiring disclosure of the FCOI to participants in a human subjects research project); obtaining background documents; prohibiting a conflicted person from involvement, including exercising personal influence, in connection with a matter; revising the design of Research and Other Sponsored Projects to address potential bias from the FCOI; obtaining waivers, consents and/or authorizations; appointing an oversight body to monitor the FOCI and/or other activities (e.g., a body to monitor and review ongoing Research and Other Sponsored Projects or other activities); and requiring relinquishment of interests and/or restructuring or severance of relationships that contribute to the FCOI. In addition, NYU can eliminate the FCOI, as for example by prohibiting an Investigator from participating in Research and Other Sponsored Projects or by requiring action that eliminates the FCOI as a condition of participating in an activity (e.g., divestment of an Ownership Interest giving rise to a FCOI). While every FCOI is subject to prior disclosure, review, approval and adherence to any required management plan, in the case of Research and Other Sponsored Projects, there are very specific procedures with respect to the advance disclosure and review of FCOIs by all Investigators as set forth in Section IV of this addendum. In each case, a determination will be made as to whether the proposed activity can proceed as contemplated, whether it can proceed only if a management plan is adhered to, or whether the FCOI is so significant that it must be eliminated. 27 Human subjects research of greater than minimal risk is the most sensitive area of research. Accordingly, the disclosures and review in this area, addressed in Section IV of this addendum, include additional requirements and determinations as to whether to proceed and under what conditions are held to an even higher standard. This addendum applies to all research conducted at or under the auspices of NYU, whether or not funded by a federal sponsoring agency or another external funding source. Research and Other Sponsored Projects that are sponsored often are subject to additional conflict rules, including those imposed by a federal sponsoring agency and those imposed contractually by private funding sources and collaborators. It is the policy of NYU to comply with all such requirements. This addendum is believed to be in compliance with the applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements; to the extent there is any issue about whether this addendum wholly complies with a sponsoring agency or other sponsor requirement, it is to be interpreted to assure compliance. Additionally, Research and Other Sponsored Projects must be conducted in accordance with all NYU policies, including the policy and policies of the relevant School. Each Investigator is responsible for assuring his or her compliance with the requirements applicable to the Investigator’s specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects. In instances where NYU carries out funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects through subgrantees, subcontractors, or collaborators, NYU will, to the extent it is required to under the grant or contract terms with the funder, either require, by written agreement, such external Investigators to comply with the pertinent portions of this addendum, or require, by written agreement, the entities for which the Investigators work to provide assurances that such entities have a written conflicts policy in effect that applies to their Investigators and complies with applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements. Such written agreements will specify the time period(s) for the subgrantees, subcontractors or collaborators to report to NYU all identified FCOI or to submit to NYU all Investigator disclosures of significant financial interests, in each case so as to enable NYU to meet its obligations under this addendum, and its obligations to external sponsors, if applicable. Examples of specific FCOI intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this Section III are set forth in Section V of this addendum. All Investigators involved in Research and Other Sponsored Projects may be required by the funding source to periodically complete an appropriate training program prior to engaging in Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Each Investigator involved in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects must complete training regarding this policy and the PHS Regulations, and the Investigator’s responsibilities regarding disclosure of Significant Financial Interest as required under this policy, prior to first engaging in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, at least every four years thereafter, and as otherwise may be requested by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) or his or her department chair or School Dean. IV. PROCEDURES: DISCLOSURES, REVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility in the first instance for determining whether an activity presents a Conflict of Interest rests with the Investigator concerned. If there is any reasonable doubt as to whether an activity may constitute such a conflict, or there is a question about whether an activity is permitted under the policy, including this addendum, the Investigator should disclose the actual, potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, the Office of the 28 Provost (the Executive Vice