RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibility in the first instance for determining whether an activity presents a Conflict of Interest rests with the Investigator concerned. If there is any reasonable doubt as to whether an activity may constitute such a conflict, or there is a question about whether an activity is permitted under the policy, including this addendum, the Investigator should disclose the actual, potential or appearance of conflict to and seek guidance from his or her department chair or School Dean, the Office of the 28 Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) or the Office of the General Counsel. A. Disclosures (1) Investigator: Annual Disclosures On an annual basis, Investigators who are members of the University Community must complete and submit the applicable annual disclosure form to the extent required by Section V.A.(1) of the policy. Each Investigator who is a member of the University Community and who is involved in PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects must complete an annual disclosure form in the year prior to each submission of a proposed PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects or complete an annual disclosure form prior to the next submission of a proposed PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects. (2) Research and Other Sponsored Projects: Reporting Requirements Each time an Investigator is planning to participate in proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the Investigators involved with the proposed Research and Other Sponsored Projects must submit the applicable Investigator financial interest disclosure form in effect, which form will refer the Investigator to the policy, including this addendum (including their availability, on the NYU website). Such Investigator financial interest disclosure form requires, among other matters, disclosure of the Investigator’s and his or her Immediate Family Members’ (i) Significant Financial Interests (specifying, in the event of a PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects or a Non PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects that incorporate the PHS Regulations into the funding award terms, if any such Significant Financial Interest could reasonably be determined to affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects and specifying for each disclosed travel reimbursement and travel paid at a minimum, the purpose of each trip, the identity of each sponsor/organizer, its destination, and its duration); (ii) Employment/Management/Fiduciary Roles held in an entity whose financial interest could affect the Research and Other Sponsored Projects; and (iii) any rights held in intellectual property covering products or processes being used in the Research and Other Sponsored Projects (including any right to royalty income from intellectual property assigned to NYU under NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement of Policy on Patents). Such disclosure must be made prior to the submission of an application for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects to the sponsor, updated annually for the duration of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, and updated within thirty days of discovering or acquiring any such new activity or interest (e.g., through purchase, marriage or inheritance). The Investigator financial interest disclosure form and annual update form must be submitted even if there is no interest, position or rights to disclose. Such disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section IV.B. of this addendum. (3) Human Subjects Research Disclosures Studies involving human subjects of greater than minimal risk and requiring review by an institutional review board (IRB) raise the most sensitive issues. Studies involving pre clinical research (i.e., studies reasonably anticipated to contribute to an FDA application for research involving human subjects 29 within the next 12 months) also raise sensitive issues. For that reason, the scientific objectivity of an Investigator may be reasonably questioned in those cases where the Investigator has any personal interests which could be affected by the research no matter what positions or dollar amounts are involved. Accordingly, the disclosures required for studies involving human subjects of greater than minimal risk are the same as those required with Research and Other Sponsored Projects in Paragraph “2” above, except that the definition of Significant Financial Interest will not include any minimum dollar limitations. All disclosures will be reviewed according to procedures described in Section IV.B of this addendum. B. Review Procedures Disclosures associated with Research and Other Sponsored Projects that are required under this addendum, including annual and investigator disclosures, will be reviewed by the School Dean in accordance with the procedures approved for the School by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing). The School Dean is responsible for determining whether any disclosed interest could be affected by, or is an entity whose financial interest could be affected by, the specific Research and Other Sponsored Projects, and, if so related, whether the interest is an FCOI. Whenever the School Dean identifies any FCOI in a Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the School Dean will refer such matter to the appropriate committee, unless the procedures approved for the School do not require such referral or the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) agrees such referral is unnecessary. In the review, the School Dean and/or the appropriate committee will determine whether and the extent to which a FCOI exists and, as appropriate, a proposed resolution to manage or eliminate any FCOI. Management of an identified FCOI requires development and implementation of a management plan and, if necessary, a retrospective review and a mitigation report as outlined below. See Section III of this addendum regarding the management of FCOI. Where a FCOI is present but was not disclosed or reviewed in a timely manner, the School Dean and/or the appropriate committee will implement, on at least an interim basis, a conflicts mitigation plan that will include a review and determination as to whether the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, or any portion thereof, conducted prior to the identification and management of the FCOI was biased in the design, conduct, or reporting of such Research and Other Sponsored Projects. Review and implementation of such conflicts mitigation plan must be completed in a timely manner. For PHS Funded Research and Other Sponsored Projects, such review and implementation is required within sixty days of identifying the failure to disclose or review the FCOI. For all matters referred to it, the appropriate committee will convey its decision to the School Dean, who will either accept it or refer it to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) for resolution. The results of the review and any resulting conflict management and/or mitigation plan will be communicated to the principal investigator and to the Investigator(s) with the identified conflict (if 30 different), each of whom will need to agree to the plan(s) before the Research and Other Sponsored Projects may proceed. For FCOI cases involving human subjects research, the approved conflict management and/or mitigation plan also will be communicated to the relevant IRB for further action. If the conflict management and/or mitigation plan permits the research to proceed with the conflicted Investigator, such plan will provide, at a minimum, for appropriate disclosure to human subjects involved in the research study, if any, and to the public in presentations and publications of resulting research data. Commencement of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects (including any enrollment of research subjects) or expenditure of any awarded funds for the Research and Other Sponsored Projects may not occur until after completion of the review and evaluation of an Investigator’s disclosure associated with the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, including the implementation of any necessary or appropriate management and/or mitigation plan and any reporting required to or by the sponsor prior to commencement relating to an Investigator’s disclosure. In the case of an on going Research and Other Sponsored Project, when a new Investigator discloses a Significant Financial Interest or an existing Investigator discloses a new Significant Financial Interest, the disclosure will be renewed in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section IV.B(2),with the review and evaluation completed within sixty days, including implementation on an at least an interim basis of any necessary or appropriate management and/or mitigation plan, and with timely compliance with reporting required to or by the sponsor. C. Responsibilities (1) Faculty Advisory Committees on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment The Provost may establish a Faculty Advisory Committee on Conflict of Interest and Conflict of Commitment when the Provost believes it would be useful to do so; a School Dean or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the EVP for Health with respect to the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) may ask the Provost to establish such a committee when the person believes such a committee would be useful. The task for such a committee may include reviewing all referrals of identified Conflict of Interest that have been referred by School Deans or another source in accordance with this addendum. A committee’s role is advisory to the School Deans and to the Senior Vice Provost for Research, except in the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing, where a committee’s role is advisory to the School Dean and the Executive Vice President for Health. The Dean of the School of Medicine has established a Faculty Advisory Research Conflict of Interest Committee at the School of Medicine whose task is to review all referrals of disclosures of identified FCOI arising out of Research and Other Sponsored Projects conducted at or under the auspices of the School of Medicine or arising out of research studies requiring review by the School of Medicine's IRB under NYU policies. The Committee’s role is advisory to the Dean of the School of Medicine and Executive Vice President for Health. In addition to the Committees contemplated by the policy, each School Dean may establish separate conflict of interest committee(s), which may be faculty/Investigator advisory committees, to review other conflicts under the policies of the relevant School. 31 (2) Responsibility of the Senior Vice Provost for Research The Provost has designated the Senior Vice Provost for Research as the Provost's representative for managing this addendum and its implementation at Schools other than the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Senior Vice Provost for Research will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (3) Responsibility of the Executive Vice President for Health The Provost has designated the Executive Vice President for Health as the representative for managing this addendum and its implementation for the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing. The Executive Vice President for Health will resolve any disagreements between a School Dean and the appropriate Committee. (4) Responsibility of the School Deans (other than the Dean of the School of Medicine) The School Deans are responsible for establishing procedures to implement this addendum, to provide any mandatory training, and to ensure timely collection and review of their Investigators’ Research and Other Sponsored Projects disclosures (including all research studies involving human subjects). School Deans will refer disclosures of potential, actual or perceived conflicts in accordance with the procedures of the School approved by the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) and work, if necessary, with an applicable Committee or the Senior Vice Provost for Research (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), to ensure that all conflicts are eliminated or managed. Each School Dean will provide a report annually to the Provost (and also to the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing) on their School’s compliance with this addendum. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the Investigators of that School, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of disclosures reporting FCOI, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Provost (Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing). (5) Responsibility of the Dean of the School of Medicine In recognition of the unique significance of conflicts at an integrated academic medical center, the Provost and Executive Vice President for Health have delegated broad authority to the Dean of the School of Medicine to interpret the principles outlined in this addendum for implementation in connection with all matters under this addendum arising out of the School of Medicine and for all research studies involving human subject research reviewed by the School of Medicine’s IRB. As is the case for all NYU policies, the Dean of the School of Medicine may introduce additional restrictions to this addendum in order to implement the principles outlined above. The Dean of the School of Medicine will provide a report annually to the Provost and the Executive Vice President for Health on the School of Medicine’s compliance with this addendum. Such report will include the number of annual disclosures required to be filed by the Investigators of the School of Medicine, the number received and reviewed, and the outcome of the reviews; the number of 32 disclosures reporting FCOI, and the outcome of those reviews; and other information requested by the Executive Vice President for Health. D. Appeals Should an Investigator wish to appeal a decision made by a School Dean on any matter contemplated by this addendum, the Investigator may present the appeal to the Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) who will consider the case in consultation with the School Dean and, at his or her discretion, the appropriate Committee contemplated by this addendum. E. Enforcement Violations of this addendum are considered violations of the policy and are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU, in accordance with the NYU disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective Investigator as set forth in the Faculty Handbook and/or the applicable NYU rules for the category of person involved, including in the applicable the policies and procedures of the relevant Schools. For matters related to Research and Other Sponsored Projects, if there is a determination by the School Dean and/or the applicable Committee and/or Provost (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing) after review by the applicable Committee that the failure of an Investigator to comply with this addendum, including a conflict management or mitigation plan adopted pursuant to this addendum, has biased the design, conduct, or reporting of the Research and Other Sponsored Projects, the School Dean will promptly notify the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), who will coordinate notification of the project’s sponsor and any other potentially affected party, require other notifications (e.g., to journals and sponsors of public presentations) as appropriate, and take appropriate other actions to maintain appropriate objectivity in the Research and Other Sponsored Projects. In addition, in any case where such Research and Other Sponsored Projects’ purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device or treatment has been designed, conducted or reported by an Investigator with a FCOI that was not managed or reported to NYU as required, the School Dean, in consultation with the Senior Vice Provost for Research (the Executive Vice President for Health in the case of the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing), will require the Investigator involved to disclose the FCOI in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. F. Record Retention Records related to this addendum will be maintained in accordance with NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records Policy as in effect from time to time; provided, however, that records relating to Investigator financial interest disclosures and NYU’s review of, or response to, such disclosures (whether or not a disclosure resulted in a determination of a FCOI), will be maintained for at least three years from the date of submission of the final expenditures report (or such longer period as required by the federal sponsoring agency) on the applicable Research and Other Sponsored Projects even if a shorter retention period is specified under NYU’s Retention and Destruction of Records 33 Policy. All records relating to Investigator financial interest disclosures and NYU’s review of, or response to, such disclosures will be retained either by the appropriate Dean or by the Faculty Advisory Committee, as applicable. V. EXAMPLES OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST The following are examples of specific Conflict of Interest arising out of a Research and Other Sponsored Projects intended to illustrate certain of the principles described in this addendum: (1) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept funding in support of his or her research from an entity in which the Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Employment/Management/Fiduciary Role. (2) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept research funding from an entity to assist in developing technologies owned by the entity where the Investigator engages in Consulting and receives Remuneration from the entity. (3) An Investigator proposes that NYU use or test a product made by an entity in which the Investigator (or his or her Immediate Family Member) has an Ownership Interest. (4) An Investigator proposes that NYU accept a Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program subcontract for research in the Investigator’s laboratory from a “small business” start up company founded by the Investigator and in which the Investigator has an Ownership Interest. (5) An Investigator proposes that NYU use or test in a clinical research study a product or process that is patented by NYU and as to which the Investigator receives Royalty Income pursuant to NYU's Statement of Policy on Patents.