Kahn, MD Pediatric Rheumatology Jonathan Samuels, MD Our experts are at the forefront of the latest research and innovation in sports medicine and exercise science. They’re also athletes and coaches themselves, with a deep understanding of their patients’ drive to stay active and achieve their personal best. “My medical team accommodated my insane schedule and bent over backward to make sure that I was able to achieve my goals as an athlete.” —Miye D’Oench, Right Wing, Metropolitan Riveters, Age 25; Read All Sports Health Patient Stories We host a wide variety of sports health events covering the intersection of sports and health—from lectures and workshops for the community to conferences and continuing medicine education for professionals—where we share this valuable information with athletes as well as sports health leaders in the field. Learn more about our upcoming events. Sports Performance and Wellness Lectures We host sports performance and wellness community lectures on a variety of topics. From planning an exercise program for the holiday season to learning how athletes can decrease risk for injury and perform at their best, you’ll get practical tips to keep you at the top of your game. Watch some of our previous lectures on Please register using our online form. For additional information, please contact John Salvatore at John.Salvatore@NYULangone.org or Jennifer Gallinaro at Jennifer.Gallinaro@NYULangone.org Rusk Rehabilitation Community Lecture Series Patients and sports medicine specialists alike can benefit from NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation’s vast catalog of community lectures offered throughout the year. Experts discuss topics including sports injury rehabilitation, orthopedic and musculoskeletal rehabilitation, and pediatric rehabilitation. View our community lecture series calendar Continuing Medical Education Activities Clinicians and other healthcare professionals can receive valuable information from our wide range of CME activities on sports and health-related topics. Our educational programs include conferences, courses, and workshops. At NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center at , we believe everyone, no matter their fitness level or exercise history, has an inner athlete. With proper instruction, training, and support, we can help you find yours. We rely on the latest fitness training research coupled with the most advanced testing equipment and expertise to help you identify and achieve your goals, whether they include managing an injury or clinical condition, surpassing a fitness plateau, or developing your full athletic potential. No matter your sport or fitness goals, you’ll get the help you need to improve at the Sports Performance Center. Learn about the science of longevity through our health and fitness evaluations Maximize your metabolic capacity Learn more about how to build resilience, tackle obstacles, and improve lifestyle behaviors during perimenopause and menopause Overcome injury with nutrition guidance tailored to your sport and personal needs. Discover the secrets to optimal marathon training See how one woman improved her strength, endurance, and overall fitness —and improved her chances of living a longer life—with help from the Sports Performance Center. Our Expert Staff sports performance staff brings unique expertise to your fitness program. Our team, led by center director Debbie Newman, includes registered clinical exercise physiologists who have certifications from the National Strength and Conditioning Association, American College of Sports Medicine, Functional Movement Systems, Titleist Performance Institute, and USA Track and Field. A registered health and sports dietitian, clinical nutritionist, and sports psychologist also help you meet your goals. Call us at to make an appointment. Sports Medicine at NYU Langone Sports Injury Rehabilitation We help patients return to physical activity after an injury or orthopedic surgery. Our care team helps everyone from professional athletes to everyday exercisers get back to the activities they enjoy. We provide championship-level care to athletes and active people. Sports Performance Center Newsletter Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Winter 2020 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Summer 2018 Spring 2018 Winter 2018 Fall 2017 Subscribe to Our Newsletter We are open Monday through Thursday from 7:00AM to 8:00PM and Friday from 7:00AM to 6:00PM. Community Wellness Lectures NYU Langone offers lectures for the community on a variety of health, wellness, and sports-specific topics. Client of Sports Performance Center Runs in Paris Marathon 646-754-3210 At the Center for Women’s Sports Medicine—part of at NYU Langone—we provide specialized care designed to help you achieve your athletic goals. Our goal is to help you recover after injury, so that you can return to your chosen activities and reach peak performance. We provide multidisciplinary care to athletes at all levels who want to maximize their performance. Our focus is on care for women and girls. However, we provide care to all athletes and active people, regardless of gender identity. Care for Women, by Women As specialists in sports medicine, orthopedic surgery, and physical medicine and rehabilitation—and as active New York City women ourselves—we understand that women’s bodies function differently than men’s. Anatomical and biomechanical differences put women at higher risk of certain sports-related injuries to the knees, hips, and shoulders. Women may also experience concussion differently than men. We not only care for these and other conditions using the most advanced treatments available, but we also work with you to prevent them from occurring or recurring. Common Sports Injuries We Treat Injuries and conditions we diagnose and treat include the following: shoulder injuries, including dislocation and instability, knee injuries, including anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears , kneecap dislocations and instability, and foot and ankle injuries, including sprains, tendon tears or tendinitis, and acute injuries and fractures overuse injuries, including golf and tennis elbow, osteochondritis dissecans or osteochondral lesions, tendinopathy, and wrist tendinitis, which is common during and after pregnancy We also diagnose and manage complex conditions such as endocrine or nutritional disorders that affect exercise and training, as well as endurance and mental barriers that prevent peak performance or hinder a return to activity injury. We collaborate with our Sports Health colleagues, who represent an array of specialties. Educational Events for Athletes In addition to presenting at national and international meetings, experts at the Center for Women’s Sports Medicine appear regularly on Doctor Radio on SiriusXM and in community events and lectures at high schools, colleges, and workplaces throughout New York City. Topics may include stretching before and after exercise; staying mindful of your body while being active; eating a healthy, balanced diet; and designing training schedules to prevent injury and maximize performance. Our Team of Providers Our sports health doctors collaborate with experts from various specialties to deliver multispecialty care that meets the specific health and performance needs of women and girls. Sonal Chaudhry Julie C. Delphin Hayley J. Goodall Melanie Graber Reena Loona Nicole Lund MPH, RDN Sports Nutrition Specialist Amy J. Patel Amanda Pechman Bethany R. Ridenhour Kim Schoenfeld Mariyam Wasay Interventional Spine Specialist Margaret Nachtigall We provide medical and surgical care and rehabilitation therapies for musculoskeletal conditions in children and adults. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors treat athletic, overuse, and everyday injuries. We help elite athletes and fitness novices achieve their health and fitness goals. Our rehabilitation experts provide care that meets your physical, social, emotional, cognitive, and psychological needs. Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Services Otolaryngologists on the NYU Langone team provide medical and surgical care to athletes and other active people of all ages who have injuries or conditions that affect the ear, nose, and throat. From broken noses and swimmer’s ear to and chronic sinus infections, our experts, also called ear, nose, and throat (ENTs) specialists, work to get you back in the game feeling—and performing—your best. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for ear, nose, and throat. Our experts provide care to children through Our ENTs diagnose and treat an array of conditions and injuries common to athletes and other active people, including the following: fractures to head and facial bones—including the temporal bones, cheekbones, eye sockets, and nose; and jaw fractures with no accompanying dental injury fracture of the larynx, or voice box external ear injuries—including auricular hematoma, in which blood pools under the tissue that covers the ear’s cartilage after an injury, as well as cauliflower ear, which develops after repeated and untreated trauma to the outer ear internal ear conditions—including exostoses, also known as surfer’s ear, an abnormal growth of bone in the ear canal caused by recurring infection or injury; ear infections; ear canal disorders such as eardrum injury or perforation; ear barotrauma, a condition in which a change in atmospheric pressure causes ear pain facial lacerations chronic sinusitis and other sinus disorders Voice Center , we also diagnose difficulty breathing during exercise caused by disorders of the vocal cords or larynx; stridor , or noisy breathing; and voice changes or hoarseness in adults and . In addition, we collaborate closely with our colleagues at . After your treatment, we may refer you there for physical therapy or speech–language pathology. Our Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Experts NYU Langone ENTs specialize in caring for athletes and other active people of all ages. Milan R. Amin, MD Laryngology & Voice, Swallow and Airway Daniel Jethanamest, MD Otology & Neurotology, Skull Base Surgery Judy W. Lee, MD Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Cosmetic Plastic Surgery 212-263-9695 NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center offers personalized and compassionate care for children and adults with neurofibromatosis (NF) types 1 and 2 and schwannomatosis. These disorders can cause tumors, which are usually benign, to form on nerves. Care of Neurofibromatosis Our team diagnoses and treats all types of neurofibromatosis and schwannomatosis. Our team of specialists is committed to researching better and safer treatments for people with neurofibromatosis. These conditions can affect many parts of the body. Because of this, we have put together a team of specialists to address the challenges our patients may experience. These specialists are part of the world-class team at NYU Langone. We are committed to researching better and safer treatments for people with NF. We lead clinical trials for NF , and are the only New York member of the Neurofibromatosis Clinical Trials Consortium. We have received the Affiliate Clinic designation from the Children’s Tumor Foundation, a nonprofit organization committed to ending NF through research. Care for children is provided through We have a nurse coordinator dedicated to helping patients and their families coordinate the care they need. To schedule an appointment, please contact our nurse coordinator, Carole Mitchell, MS, RN, at . If you are hearing impaired, please email carole.mitchell@nyulangone.org Our nurse coordinator discusses your needs by phone or email and determine which of our doctors best matches your specific condition and concerns. All prior imaging and medical records are requested. A social worker may contact you to assist with any special needs you may have. At your first appointment, a detailed physical and neurological exam is performed and all previous records and tests are reviewed. Depending on your diagnosis, we may recommend additional tests, such as imaging studies and genetic testing. The results of these tests will help determine the care plan that is best for you. Other NYU Langone experts—including behavioral and learning specialists, geneticists, neurosurgeons, orthopedic surgeons, audiologists, plastic surgeons, and ear, nose, and throat specialists (also known as otolaryngologists)—may assist in your care. Doctors at the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center come from a range of specialties including oncology, neurosurgery, and otolaryngology. Kaleb H. Yohay Sean O. McMenomey Otologist & Neurotologist J. Thomas Roland Jr. Devorah Segal Patients of the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center have access to our world-renowned neurosurgeons. Otology and Neurotology Group NYU Langone physicians care for conditions involving the ear and run one of the country’s largest auditory brainstem implant programs. Auditory Brainstem Implant Project Children with neurofibromatosis type 2 who may not qualify for or benefit from a cochlear implant may be eligible for this clinical study. Sports Gastroenterology Services Gastroenterologists on the NYU Langone team understand how uncomfortable and disruptive digestive issues like heartburn, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea can be for active people. Our experts diagnose the conditions that cause these symptoms and then create a treatment plan to help adults and children return to their sport or activity feeling great and performing at their best. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for gastroenterology and GI surgery. Our team members are part of renowned NYU centers and programs, including the Center for Esophageal Health Pediatric Gastroenterology Program . We work to diagnose and treat all gastrointestinal symptoms and conditions, from minor complaints to complex diseases, including the following: acid reflux, also called heartburn, as well as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) eosinophilic esophagitis, a condition that causes difficulty swallowing—food often becomes stuck in the esophagus, leading to heartburn gastritis, an inflammation of the stomach lining that causes bloating, pain in the upper belly, nausea or vomiting, and fatigue inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) , including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, in adults irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) ischemic colitis—also known as runner’s diarrhea—a condition common in long-distance runners that causes pain in the lower abdomen, diarrhea, and blood in the stool during or after activity Our experts take a comprehensive approach to gastrointestinal symptoms and conditions and use leading-edge diagnostic tools—including colonoscopy performed with computer-aided detection, or artificial intelligence—and the most advanced treatments available. These may include lifestyle modifications, over-the-counter and prescription medications, as well as biologic therapies. For athletes and other active people whose condition is chronic or recurring, we create a personalized treatment plan with guidance about how to minimize its impact on your training and performance and ways to prevent recurrence. Our team also helps athletes and other active people maintain their health by offering colorectal cancer screening Our Sports Gastroenterology Experts Our experts work with athletes of all ages to improve their health and athletic performance. Jeremiah Levine, MD Pediatric Gastroenterology David B. Snell, MD Treatment at the Peripheral Nerve Center At NYU Langone’s Peripheral Nerve Center, our surgeons have access to advanced technology and use the most current surgical techniques. Our goal is to help you overcome injury and illness and improve your quality of life. Peripheral Nerve Conditions We Treat We provide treatment for many nerve conditions, including greater occipital nerve entrapment, hereditary predisposition to pressure palsies, neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome, pronator syndrome, radial tunnel syndrome, superficial sensory radial nerve entrapment, supinator syndrome, suprascapular nerve entrapment, and ulnar nerve compression at the elbow or the wrist. We also have one of the few advanced programs for the minimally invasive surgical treatment of hyperhidrosis, which is a condition that causes excessive sweating in the palms and soles of the feet that can interfere with patients’ quality of life. Dr. Noel Perin heads the program and specializes in endoscopic minimally invasive surgery. For certain patients, the surgery can greatly improve quality of life. Specialists at the Peripheral Nerve Center also treat people who have , double crush syndrome, meralgia paresthetica, Morton's neuroma, neurogenic pyriformis syndrome, peroneal nerve entrapment at the fibular head, and pudendal nerve entrapment. In addition, our doctors care for people with nerve injuries, including brachial plexus injuries, inguinal neuralgia, obturator nerve injury and entrapment, painful neuromas, peroneal nerve injury and foot drop, radial nerve injury, scapular winging, and spinal accessory nerve injury. We also offer treatment for peripheral nerve tumors, including lipomas involving nerves, malignant nerve sheath tumors and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors, metastatic and infiltrative tumors involving nerves, , plexiform neurofibromas, radiation plexitis, schwannoma, schwannomatosis, solitary neurofibromas, and synovial cyst. Peripheral Nerve Procedures When nerves have been cut or torn, our surgeons perform nerve repair surgery to reattach the nerve ends. If the damaged nerves are not long enough to stitch together, we perform a nerve graft from the leg or a nerve transplant using a donor. If a nerve graft is not feasible, we perform conduit nerve repair in which small, absorbable tubes, called conduits, are used to connect and protect the nerves. When a nerve is pulled from the spinal cord, such as when a person has a brachial plexus injury that affects the shoulder and arm, we perform either nerve transfer, using a nerve from another part of the body to restore movement, or end-to-side repair, which works to repair a partially functioning nerve. We also perform contralateral C7 transfer, using the nerve root from the seventh bone in the cervical spine from the unaffected side of the body to repair the injured brachial plexus. For severe brachial plexus injuries, muscle and tendon transfers may be considered. We also perform a procedure called neurolysis, either external or internal, to remove scar tissue that could trap nerves. Surgical Technology Our neurosurgeons use the latest in diagnostic and surgical technology to ensure your safety. Intraoperative Electrophysiological Monitoring in Peripheral Nerve Surgery When the affected nerve is exposed during surgery, very sensitive electrical testing can be performed. This testing, which is not possible through the skin before the surgery, helps guide the surgeon. This testing also helps surgeons determine whether a nerve should be replaced with a graft or if it has the potential to heal if surrounding scar tissue is removed. Other available intraoperative electrical tests can be used to monitor nerve function during tumor removal and to determine whether spinal rootlets, which connect nerve roots to the spinal cord, are intact during brachial plexus surgery. Peripheral Nerve Stimulation for Peripheral Nerve Disorders For severe nerve damage that does not respond to more conservative treatment, direct peripheral nerve stimulation may provide pain relief. This method works much like a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation unit, also known as TENS, but connects directly to the nerve, not the skin. Peripheral nerve stimulation can ease pain associated with supraorbital neuralgia, occipital neuralgia, and inguinal neuralgia. We also can provide tibial nerve stimulation for people who have had unsuccessful Morton's neuroma surgery. An electrode is placed on the nerve for a short trial period. If it helps, a small programmable pacemaker is placed under the skin. The unit can then deliver pain relief as needed and be switched off when the pain subsides. Psoriatic Arthritis Center 646-501-7400 645-754-9607 Some people with go on to develop , a condition that leads to itchy, sore patches on the skin in addition to joint pain. Treatment requires a coordinated effort by dermatologists and rheumatologists to help manage symptoms such as swelling, inflammation, and skin changes. At NYU Langone’s Psoriatic Arthritis Center, we treat more than 1,300 people each year, giving them access to traditional and newer medications. Our physicians and scientists are leading extensive research into providing the best care for patients with psoriatic arthritis, as well as studying the early events that may lead to developing the condition for insight into its origins. The center’s dermatologists, rheumatologists, and scientists use these discoveries to develop novel approaches to the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of psoriatic arthritis. Dr. Jill P. Buyon and Dr. Jose U. Scher We are also building upon recent discoveries made at NYU Langone regarding the microbiome, which are the microbes that live in and on the human body, and new-onset rheumatoid arthritis. We are using these observations to shed light on the potential microbial triggers of psoriatic arthritis. Our rheumatologists help provide relief for patients with psoriatic arthritis. The Psoriatic Arthritis Center is involved in numerous clinical trials that evaluate treatments for the condition. We work with NYU Langone’s Seligman Center for Advanced Therapeutics as well as the Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Research Registry, which tracks participants to answer important questions regarding psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Our rheumatologists are experts at treating patients with psoriatic arthritis. Rebecca Haberman Andrea L. Neimann Dermatologist Jose U. Scher Psoriatic Arthritis Rheumatologist Gary E. Solomon IL-17 Activated HIF-1-alpha Drives Skin Inflammation. Study Helps Explain What Drives Psoriasis Severity & Spread At NYU Langone’s Latino Liver Program—part of the —we provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino children and adults who need or may need a liver transplant or liver surgery. By removing a potential language barrier, our bilingual hepatologists, transplant surgeons, and nurse practitioners help you and your family more easily understand and navigate the transplant or liver surgery process and receive the support you need before, during, and after surgery. In addition to being comfortable communicating in Spanish, the transplant hepatologists, surgeons, infectious disease specialists, pulmonologists, nephrologists, and nurse practitioners, general cardiologists, and heart failure specialists who make up our multidisciplinary team also understand the many cultural nuances within the larger Latino community. Liver transplant care for children is provided through the Pediatric Liver Disease and Transplant Program Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone Health . Our surgeons offer whole liver transplant, from a deceased donor; split liver transplant, in which the liver from a deceased donor is divided in two, providing organs for two different patients; and living donor transplant , in which a person donates a portion of their liver to the patient. Addressing a Growing Need In the United States, the rate of chronic liver disease among people of Hispanic and Latino ethnicity is twice that of the non-Hispanic White population. Currently, Hispanic and Latino people make up roughly 20 percent of both the national liver transplant waitlist and of liver transplant recipients. Significant disparities in access to liver transplantation exists for these groups in the form of lower referral rates to liver transplant centers, lower rates of placement on the liver transplant waitlist, higher waitlist removal rates, and lower liver transplant rates. Our goal is to help address these disparities. To learn more about NYU Langone’s Latino Liver Program, call 212-263-8133. Read about our program in Spanish Our team members are specialists in transplant hepatology, surgery, infectious diseases, pulmonology, nephrology, cardiology, and heart failure. Henry J. Neumann Cesar E. Fors Nieves We lead the field in heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplantation. Pediatric Liver Disease & Transplant Program We deliver innovative and advanced treatment for liver disease that is personalized to each child. View All Locations (24) A CT scan, also known as a computerized tomogram or CAT scan, is a noninvasive type of X-ray that helps doctors diagnose medical conditions that may not be visible on other types of imaging technology. Using a CT scan allows radiologists from NYU Langone ’s the ability to see more than what a regular can provide. NYU Langone radiologists review and interpret CT scans to diagnose a variety of illnesses, including abdominal, cardiac, musculoskeletal, neurological, spine-related, and thoracic conditions. A CT scanner is a doughnut-shaped machine that uses advanced X-ray technology to take pictures of your body. A computer in the scanner reconstructs the data into cross-sectional pictures of your body, called slices or sections. Unlike an MRI, a CT scanner is an open machine—you are not enclosed and can see completely around yourself. NYU Langone offers patients the most advanced CT scanner technology available, providing images of exceptional quality, while using the lowest possible radiation dose to keep you safe. Learn more about Why Doctors Order a CT Scan CT scans enable doctors to see cross-sectional images of your internal organs. CT scans can potentially help your doctor see the cause of your symptoms, diagnose certain diseases, and evaluate treatment response. Critical information can be provided to your doctor, often more quickly and economically compared with other tests. Compared to MRI, CT provides a better evaluation of certain elements such as air, blood, and calcifications. This means that air-containing structures such as the lungs are better studied using CT. Preparing for a CT Scan You may be asked not to eat or drink anything for up to three hours before your CT scan, especially if a contrast material is going to be used in your exam. You should inform your doctor of any medications that you are taking and if you have any allergies. You can take your medications before the CT scan. Talk with your doctor before the CT scan for any specific instructions. Also, please inform your doctor of any recent illnesses or other medical conditions, such as a history of heart disease, asthma, diabetes, kidney disease, or thyroid problems. When you schedule your appointment, our scheduling associate tells you how early to arrive. Depending on the type of exam, it may be 30 to 60 minutes before your scheduled appointment. This allows time for registration and to complete all necessary paperwork, forms, and questionnaires. Be sure to bring your prescription, insurance card, and any related insurance forms or precertifications. If you require a precertification for the study and you do not bring it with you, you will likely be delayed until it is on file in our department. It may be helpful to confirm that the doctor referring you for the exam has secured the precertification and has faxed it to our department. You should wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing to your exam. Certain exams may require you to wear a gown, which is provided. We have private dressing rooms with lockers for your clothes and valuables, although we suggest that you leave your valuables at home. Metal objects including jewelry, eyeglasses, dentures, and hairpins may affect the CT images and should be left at home or removed prior to your exam. You may also be asked to take out hearing aids and removable dental work. Some abdominal CT scans require the administration of water or oral contrast material to allow the radiologist to evaluate your bowel and also to separate the bowel from other important organs and tissues. If you are having a CT scan of your abdomen or pelvis, you need to arrive one hour before your appointment. You will be asked to drink some type of oral contrast agent; either dilute or very dilute barium, dilute iodine, or water. During this period of time, you can fill out your forms and other paperwork. Your physician and radiologist may determine that intravenous (IV) contrast material is needed for your CT scan. IV contrast material containing iodine is used to highlight organs and blood vessels that are otherwise difficult to visualize. If required, a small IV is placed in your arm or hand prior to the CT scan. IV contrast material is safe for most patients, but there is a small chance of a reaction in a very small percentage of patients.  Before your scan, one of our staff members asks you a few questions to assess your risk of reaction. Allergic reactions can occur following IV contrast administration. The likelihood for an allergic reaction is increased if you have a history of active uncontrolled asthma, if you’ve had a prior allergic reaction to contrast, or if you have a history of a life-threatening reaction to any allergen or medication. Please notify your referring physician prior to scheduling your CT scan appointment if you have any of these risk factors or a known allergy to contrast material. Your doctor may prescribe medications to reduce the risk of an allergic reaction. During a CT Scan Our CT technologist takes you into the CT scanner room and positions you on the table, which moves into the doughnut-shaped portion of the scanner. At this point, the CT technologist exits the room. You and the technologist are able to speak with each other through an intercom system. The technologist lets you know when the pictures are going to be taken—during this time you need to hold still, as moving causes the images to be blurry. The technologist gives you specific breathing instructions; for example, you may be asked to hold your breath or to breathe quietly. As the scanner takes the pictures, the table slides through the scanner and then back out. The exam length depends on the type of scan that has been ordered for you. Most people are on the scanning table for less than 10 minutes. A technologist communicates with you throughout the exam and lets you know if additional images need to be taken. After a CT Scan When your scan is completed, you may resume your regular diet and activities. We recommend that you drink plenty of non-alcoholic, decaffeinated fluids, such as water or juice, to help your body flush out any IV or oral contrast material. After your CT scan, our radiologists read the images and dictate a report that is sent to your doctor, who contacts you with the results. Our Locations (24) Ultra-Low Dose CT Scans Successfully Detect Fractures Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery We have doctors throughout Manhattan and on Long Island. 212-263-7505 NYU Langone’s otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat specialists—and head and neck surgeons take a patient-centered approach to treatment. Our compassionate care is delivered by a skilled team that is devoted to providing the best care for adults and children. Pediatric otolaryngology services are provided at Research and Clinical Trials NYU Langone’s otolaryngologists and head and neck surgeons engage in research and clinical trials to enhance care for ear, nose, and throat conditions. Our doctors take a patient-centered approach to treatment. From simple evaluations to complex surgical procedures, our specialists and subspecialists tailor treatments to your individual needs. We collaborate with NYU Langone doctors in multiple specialties, from audiology and to plastic and reconstructive surgery. As leaders in otolaryngology research, we are able to take the valuable information we learn through study and clinical trials and bring it to our work with patients. This helps us realize our goal, which is to determine the best possible outcomes that lead to long-term results for our patients. We work as one team to deliver personalized care fueled by the latest research and discoveries. Ear, Nose, and Throat Conditions We Treat Your care begins with an initial evaluation by a member of our team of general otolaryngologists. We listen to your symptoms and concerns and determine the best course of treatment. Our pediatric otolaryngologists care for common conditions in children, as well as more complex conditions related to voice, breathing, sinus, and swallowing issues. Our audiologists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of hearing loss in adults and children, and provide the latest in diagnostic testing and hearing technology. If advanced care is required, we work closely with board-certified specialists in neurology and neurosurgery to get you the care you need. We care for the full range of ear, nose, and throat ailments and complex head and neck conditions in adults and children, including the following: balance disorders, including vertigo and dizziness breathing and smell disorders, nasal deformity, nasal airway issues, and stridor in adults cleft lip, cleft palate, and other congenital conditions cosmetic facial surgery ear and hearing-related disorders, including , ear canal stenosis, ear drum perforation, chronic ear infections, , otosclerosis, and tinnitus ear anomalies, including microtia, atresia, and other malformations esophageal and swallowing disorders facial paralysis facial scars and lesions, and aging face issues and other tumors of the oral cavity, oral pharynx, larynx, and neck pediatric head and neck tumors, masses, and cysts rhinoplasty, a surgery to change the shape of the nose salivary gland disorders sinonasal cancer and sinus tumors , including anterior skull base tumors and lesions thyroid problems and tumors voice disorders, including benign vocal cord lesions We also provide the latest in surgical technology, including high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging and computer animation to plan out delicate procedures that involve tumor removal and craniofacial reconstruction. These high-tech surgical techniques allow for more precise surgery and better physical outcomes. Your care is coordinated by our specially trained nursing staff. Following treatment, we refer you to for physical therapy and speech-language pathology as needed. We collaborate with experts at NYU Langone’s if you require further treatment for head and neck cancers. Leaders in Otolaryngology Research As leaders in for conditions that affect the ear, nose, and throat, we identify and put into practice advances that enhance patient care. Our research into dizziness has led to innovations in detecting the cause of vertigo and loss of balance. We conduct clinical trials related to head and neck cancer, otology and neurotology, laryngology, pediatric otolaryngology, and plastic surgery. We are participating in trials examining the role of immunotherapy in treating squamous cell carcinoma—research that could transform treatment of head and neck cancers. We are also researching new treatments for vocal fold scarring, vocal fold lesions, Meniere’s disease, and treatments that could help people with neurofibromatosis hear again, as well as new uses for auditory brainstem implants and cochlear implants. To schedule an appointment, please browse our doctors or call Cochlear Implant Center We enable hearing restoration for more than 200 adults and children each year, and provide auditory brainstem implants for those who are not candidates for cochlear implantation. We provide treatment for neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 and schwannomatosis. Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center Our surgeons reanimate paralyzed facial muscles in people who have lost function due to cancer surgery, trauma, or Bell’s palsy. Head and Neck Center We are leaders in high-tech surgical treatment and advanced medical therapy for head and neck tumors and thyroid tumors. Pediatric Aerodigestive Center We provide treatment and rehabilitation for children with swallowing, gastroesophageal, and breathing challenges. We provide care for tumors in the sinuses, nose, pituitary gland, or frontal brain lobes. Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program Our experts care for people with hearing loss, cranial nerve disorders, and skull base tumors. We treat conditions that affect the sound of your voice, as well as quality of breathing and swallowing. NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—38th Street 240 East 38th Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY, 10016 646-501-7889 646-501-7887 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—41st Street 222 East 41st Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-7022 212-263-3181 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—First Avenue 530 First Avenue, Suite 7Q, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-5565 212-263-2019 NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates—Woodbury 173 Froehlich Farm Boulevard, Woodbury, NY, 11797 516-682-8288 New Hearing Loss Program Launches for Immigrant Families Innovations in Routine & Acute ENT Care Through COVID-19 Focus on Quality Yields Milestones in ENT Safety & Outcomes NYU Lutheran Expands ENT Services with New Specialists At NYU Langone’s Center for Neuromodulation, we offer several technologically advanced treatment options for people dealing with conditions such as Parkinson’s disease, , and chronic pain. Our deep brain stimulation (DBS) program is one of the country’s most active—we perform more than 100 procedures each year. Conditions we use DBS to manage include Parkinson’s disease, essential tremor, dystonia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, , and severe . DBS has also been used as an experimental treatment for other neurological disorders such as Huntington’s disease and High Intensity Focused Ultrasound For people who have essential tremor or Parkinson’s disease with severe tremor, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a noninvasive approach that counters abnormal brain signals associated with the condition. HIFU works by sending a focused ultrasound beam from an external transmitter into the brain to destroy the neural tissue that is causing the unwanted motor symptoms. VIDEO: Under the care of Dr. Alon Mogilner at the Center for