One potential reset may be mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, which Dr. Haberman and Amanda J. Shallcross, MPH, ND , an expert on mindfulness in the Department of Population Health will explore in a subsequent phase of the project. “We want to see if we can help reset and alter those brain connections as well as improve psoriatic disease,” Dr. Haberman says. The approach has already shown utility in improving rheumatoid arthritis. “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection… What is that connection? Can we visualize it?” “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection,” Dr. Haberman adds. “The questions we’re trying to get at are, what is that connection? Can we visualize it, and if so, how can we use that as a tool for precision medicine?” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases To aid the search for better therapeutics for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, a 2014 NIH-sponsored effort called the Accelerating Medicines Partnership, or AMP, first focused on understanding the cellular and molecular pathways of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. Under a new program launched in December 2021, an initiative called AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases, or AMP AIM , has expanded to include psoriatic disease and Sjögren’s syndrome as additional areas of focus. NYU Langone Health is a lead center in the ambitious effort, which has attracted $58 million overall in public and private funding over five years. The partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and several other academic centers with the NIH, the Food and Drug Administration, pharmaceutical companies, and nonprofit organizations. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the Department of Medicine, will serve as contact principal investigator of the AMP AIM program’s lupus team. , the Steere-Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, will lead the program’s microbiome core and serve as co-principal investigator of a psoriatic disease clinical team, and Peter M. Izmirly, MD, associate professor of medicine, will oversee a clinical site for the Sjögren’s syndrome team. “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance.” An Acceleration of Discoveries in Lupus Research NYU Langone’s Division of Rheumatology led one of the lupus disease teams for the earlier AMP program that paved the way for the now-expanded effort. The team’s focus on , aided by an enrollment of more than 150 patients at NYU Langone who contributed kidney tissue for research, helped establish new protocols for tissue preservation and dissociation. From resident kidney cells and 21 clusters of immune cells, the team’s single-cell transcriptomic data yielded multiple discoveries. Publications in Nature Immunology, for example, described evidence of local activation of B cells progressive stages of monocyte differentiation and tubular type I interferon and fibrotic signatures as predictors of poor responses to treatment “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance,” Dr. Buyon says. “We now have an unprecedented opportunity to harness technological advances to deconstruct and reconstruct the enormity of phenotypic and immunologic heterogeneity in this prototypic autoimmune disease.” Within the new AMP AIM progam, the group lead by Dr. Byron—the Lupus Omics Cutaneous Kidney Investigation Team (LOCKIT)—is a partnership with Johns Hopkins University, The Ohio State University, and the University of Pennsylvania. The institutions’ well-established patient registries, Dr. Buyon says, will help the team illuminate the molecular underpinnings of early kidney disease and cutanous disease with the hope of bringing new therapies to patients. Probing the Microbiome and Skin for Clues The AMP AIM program’s microbiome core, or Micro-TeACH (Microbiome Technology and Analytic Center Hub), led by Dr. Scher, will incorporate intestinal, skin, and other tissue-related microbiome features to aid in the pathogenesis reconstruction for various autoimmune and immune mediated diseases. The hub will help researchers interrogate the gut microbiome and its potential metabolic capacity to modulate anti-rheumatic drugs’ pharmacokinetics and response to therapy. In addition, the tools will enable an integration of the cutaneous and oral microbiome with tissue-derived spatial transcriptomics and single-cell technologies. The psoriatic disease team Dr. Scher is also co-leading has been dubbed ELLIPSS, or ELucidating the Landscape of Immunoendotypes in Psoriatic Skin and Synovium. Participants in varying stages of psoriatic disease will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium to better identify the distinct functional or pathobiological mechanisms. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints and produce and promote inflammation there.” “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Any patterns and pathways, in turn, could have major implications for therapeutics . “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach,” Dr. Scher says. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone Health physicians and researchers are taking a leading role in training other providers nationwide after their success in a national project focused on developing an improved model for integrated pediatric emotional care. The national initiative began in 2017 when joined eight other children’s hospitals in a pilot backed by the American Board of Pediatrics Foundation. Families of children living with chronic conditions had asked the board to develop a plan to correct shortfalls in addressing their emotional health needs. An interdisciplinary collaboration between the , part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, and the , with key assistance from , yielded a quality improvement project that has since become a go-to model. “Ninety percent of the time the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family.” “Out of the nine children’s hospitals, we seemed to have had the most traction, which is a testament to Sala Institute and the embedding of behavioral health specialists here in our outpatient space, which many other hospitals just don’t have,” says pediatric endocrinologist An Expanding Scope Based on their pilot project in the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the researchers have since expanded the quality improvement initiative to include ambulatory care in the Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology Section of Pediatric Neuro-Oncology “An important lesson we have been able to share with other children’s hospitals around the country is that the inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It may look very different in each space.” “The inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices.” The national initiative is now called the Roadmap to Resilience, Emotional, and Mental Health . Dr. Gallagher and Becky Lois, PhD , co-director of the KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, have given lectures and led training seminars for the pediatrics board to share their findings with other institutions. Project leaders have adopted several metrics to measure improvements in their state of readiness. “The last one and hardest to achieve as a children’s hospital was creating a protocol to address behavioral emergencies experienced by parents because provision of care to an adult is not how a children’s hospital is designed,” Dr. Gallagher says. Thanks to the initiative, the Pediatric Diabetes Center has developed a carefully considered plan for how to care for an adult having an emotional crisis. Dr. Gallagher credits Sala Institute for contributing to the project’s success through developing educational materials, providing funding and offering the institute’s unique expertise in pediatric program quality improvement. Consistency with a New Step To address concerns that providers may lack the time, skills, or resources to address their patients’ emotional health, the project’s integrated behavioral health team is helping to hone skillsets and best practices. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals.” “Ninety percent of the time when we were piloting the Roadmap Initiative at the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family,” Dr. Gallagher says. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals, but we are trying to make sure that we address the emotional and mental health of every child and caregiver at every visit.” Dr. Gallagher recognizes the challenge of consistently implementing these practices given all of the competing demands on providers. “It’s like trying to take a dance that you have perfected over 20 years and add a step in the middle of it,” she says. The step isn’t necessarily difficult, she adds, but it is new and requires a cognitive shift. “Sometimes we just get so busy,” Dr. Gallagher says. “I stop myself outside the door before appointments, take 10 seconds and a deep breath, and remind myself that this could be me on the other side of the door, this person and their child. I go in with that in mind: person first.” New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services Experts bolster the clinical toolkit for evaluating atypical presentations. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks A major multicenter trial of fetal heart rate home monitoring is already showing signs of success. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 appears to trigger a hyperinflammatory state that increases segmental aortitis risk. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis A newly discovered enzyme-inactivation pathway may help illuminate a core pathogenic mechanism. Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Even with immunosuppressant use, the majority of SLE patients retain immunoreactivity to SARS-CoV-2. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Inherited disorders of complement regulation and atypical HUS help explain SLE, APS, systemic THMA with multiorgan injury. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An anterolateral view (right side) of the spleen (red) relative to the pancreas. The stomach has been removed and the visceral surface of spleen is shown. PHOTO: Science Source A first-of-its-kind clinical trial is testing whether an implanted stimulatory device might aid human patients with treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis. In animal models of inflammation, repeated stimulation of the splenic nerve, a branch of the vagus nerve, can change lymphocyte trafficking and the inflammatory response. The human clinical trial is seeking to do the same by propagating nerve signals that shift circulating immune cells from a pro-inflammation to an inflammation-resolving state. The key-sized device, developed by Galvani Bioelectronics, emits pulses of electricity to the splenic nerve to stimulate the immune system. NYU Langone Health researchers partnered with the company to help design the randomized, double-blind trial and to serve as a lead center. In January 2022, David H. Goddard, MD , a clinical professor in rheumatology, collaborated with bariatric surgeons , to implant the device in the first North American patient—and just the second worldwide. The Splenic Nerve: A Promising Target “One of the hallmarks of rheumatoid arthritis is an overactivity of B lymphocyte function,” Dr. Goddard says. “That’s one of the reasons why you see very high levels of immunoglobulin being produced at the same time.” Damping down that immune cell activity may help shut down the cascade of downstream effects such as the local production of inflammatory mediators like tumor necrosis factor and cytokines within the synovial membrane of a joint. “There’s quite a bit of medical literature suggesting that stimulation of different parts of the autonomic nervous system can result in significant changes in bodily function. It’s also been clear over a long period of time that if you stimulate the vagus nerve, you can affect the way in which lymphocytes not only traffic but also behave.” For rheumatoid arthritis, reprogrammed immune cells that travel to the synovium may help reduce or resolve inflammation and pain in the affected joints. A Potential Key to Modulating Immune Cells The experimental neurostimulator, which wraps around the splenic nerve, is connected via a cable to a second device that sits in a pouch created in the patient’s anterior abdominal wall. That device, in turn, is connected by Bluetooth to an external controller that turns the device on for a defined period of nerve stimulation every day. Although stimulating a main trunk of the vagus nerve can bring unwanted effects such as a drop in blood pressure, stimulating nerve function close to the spleen may affect lymphocytes without the untoward effects of vagal nerve stimulation. The trial is actively enrolling patients and seeking referrals. Altogether, the multicenter trial is aiming to enroll 26 patients. After the device or a sham used as a placebo has been implanted in the first four participants, Dr. Goddard says, the FDA will review the trial data. “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the next question is, how effective is it really in humans?” “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the question is, how effective is it really in humans.” The therapy could have enormous potential not only for rheumatoid arthritis, but also for a range of other autoimmune diseases including inflammatory arthritis and inflammatory muscle diseases if proven effective, Dr. Goddard says. David H. Goddard, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and medical director of NYU Langone Ambulatory Care at Brooklyn Heights and Cobble Hill. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Managing the recurrence of urethral stricture after urethroplasty can be challenging. The Optilume drug-coated balloon, which delivers paclitaxel to the urethral wall to, in theory, prevent recurrence, is a promising novel treatment for urethral stricture. Although randomized studies have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of Optilume urethral dilation for treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management, there have been no published studies on its efficacy following open urethroplasty. The following Case of the Month demonstrates the application and potential utility of Optilume urethral dilation for endoscopic management of recurrent urethral stricture following urethroplasty. Since the relative rarity of stricture recurrence after urethroplasty makes patient recruitment in clinical trials a challenge, peer-to-peer discussion on the application of Optilume dilation after urethroplasty may help advance treatment and improve patient care. The Optilume drug-coated balloon is approved by the FDA for treatment of anterior urethral strictures that are less than or equal to 3 cm long. The device has demonstrated success in treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management. To date, there are no published data on its effectiveness for recurrence after urethroplasty. In the case presented, a 45-year-old male experienced lasting relief after electing Optilume dilation for a 1-cm proximal apical recurrence following urethroplasty for a 5-cm stricture. Further demonstrations of the success of Optilume in managing similar cases may support its use following urethroplasty. The patient first presented to his primary care physician with severe lower-urinary-tract symptoms (LUTS), including straining, weak stream, and hematuria. Though the patient initially attributed his condition to diet, his AUA Symptom Score of 33 represented severe LUTS. His post-void residual (PVR) was 450 ml, and uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5.6 ml/second, average flow rate 2.2 ml/second, 138 cc of voided volume. Upon referral to urology, retrograde urethrogram demonstrated a long-segment (5 cm) bulbar urethral stricture (Figure 1). A retrograde urethrogram reveals a 5 cm bulbar urethral stricture. Source: NYU Langone Health At this point, the patient presented to NYU Langone Health, where we discussed management options, including uncoated-balloon catheter urethral dilation or urethroplasty: Optilume was not yet FDA-approved for treatment of urethral strictures. The patient understood the high probability of recurrence following dilation, based on the length of his stricture, and elected dorsal buccal graft onlay urethroplasty. One year later, the patient presented with worsening LUTS, including progressive diminution of his urinary stream, and had a PVR of 125 ml. Uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5 ml/second, average flow rate 3 ml/second, 150 cc voided volume. Cystoscopy confirmed a recurrent 1-cm, 5-Fr urethral stricture at the proximal apex. At this time, we counseled the patient on options, including repeat urethroplasty and urethral dilation with or without Optilume, and he chose Optilume dilation. It has now been one year since the procedure, and the patient continues to have a durable result. Optilume Dilation: The Procedure The procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia per initial guidelines. However, Optilume can now be performed in the ambulatory clinic. A flexible cystoscope was advanced into the urethra to the 5-Fr bulbar urethral stricture, confirmed to be 1 cm long. A 0.035 sensor wire was advanced into the bladder, and a 24-Fr uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced over the wire. Under direct visualization, the uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced to the urethral stricture and inflated to 20 mmHG. The balloon catheter was removed and a 24-Fr Optilume dilation balloon was advanced under direct vision to the urethral stricture and inflated for a five-minute dwell time. The cystoscope and the Optilume drug-coated balloon catheter were removed. A 16-Fr council Foley was advanced over the wire and into the bladder and connected to gravity drainage. Following the uncomplicated procedure, the patient was discharged and returned 72 hours later for Foley removal. Optilume care instructions include abstinence or using a condom for 30 days after treatment to avoid exposure of a partner to paclitaxel, and abstinence or contraception with sexual partners of childbearing age for at least six months after treatment to avoid potential risks to a fetus. Optilume Dilation: Evidence and Outcomes Evidence supporting Optilume utilization is from ROBUST III, a prospective, randomized, multicenter, single-blind trial that compared Optilume to traditional methods of endoscopic management of anterior urethral stricture. Eligible participants were adult males with strictures less than or equal to 3 cm in length who had had at least two prior endoscopic treatments. Participants in the intervention arm were pretreated with an uncoated balloon or direct vision internal urethrotomy to greater than or equal to 20 Fr. An Optilume drug-coated balloon was administered, with balloon sizes selected based on lumen diameter and stricture length. Inflation with the Optilume drug-coated balloon for five minutes or more allowed delivery of paclitaxel, and then a Foley catheter was placed for two to five days. At two years, patients who underwent Optilume dilation demonstrated sustained improvements in LUTS severity, captured using the International Prostate Symptom Score, and voiding parameters. When evaluating additional interventions, patients in the Optilume arm at two years had fewer repeat interventions than those in the control arm at one year (77.8 percent versus 23.6 percent). In summary, Optilume is established as a safe and effective endoscopic treatment for those who wish to avoid or delay formal urethroplasty. In this Case of the Month, we also illustrate how Optilume urethral dilation is a safe and effective option to consider for patients who present with recurrent strictures after urethroplasty. Endoscopic management of recurrent urethral strictures following bulbar onlay urethroplasty is feasible. Almost half of these recurrences occur at anastomotic sites, and success rates of direct vision internal urethrotomy for short recurrent strictures is 60.5 percent. Recurrence after a trial of endoscopic treatment, however, should be managed with repeat open reconstruction. It is important to note that there is no consensus on the ideal definition of success after urethroplasty. Some have considered freedom from re-intervention for urethral stricture as success, though others point out that certain patients with recurrences may elect no further intervention. Another definition, established by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS), is the ability to pass a 16-to-17-Fr flexible cystoscope beyond the area of reconstruction. This definition is challenging, because routine endoscopy on all patients who undergo urethroplasty is not feasible due to costs and lack of evidence of its impact on further patient management. Another definition is based on the postoperative maximal flow rate (Qmax), but this measure is multifactorial, and a high Qmax does not rule out recurrence. A final definition is freedom from LUTS or an improvement compared to baseline. New tools, including the Urethral Stricture Surgery (USS) patient-reported outcome measure, and a reduced version called the Urethral Stricture Symptom and Impact Measure (USSIM), have been used to evaluate symptoms. These new tools, though important and necessary, also bring new challenges for utilization. Ultimately, the definition of success after urethroplasty should come from the patient. As a provider, I discuss with each patient what successful treatment of their stricture would look like and identify the best approach to achieve those goals. In the case presented here, the patient defined success as no longer straining to urinate, having a steady stream, and being able to empty his bladder. These results were achieved with Optilume dilation. 1. Elliott SP et al. (2022). One-Year Results for the ROBUST III Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating the Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture. ; 207(4): 866–875. 2. VanDyke ME et al. (2024). Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture: 2-Year Results of the ROBUST III Trial. BJUI Comp ass; 5(3): 366–373. 3. Barbagli G et al. (2006). Anastomotic Fibrous Ring as Cause of Stricture Recurrence after Bulbar Onlay Graft Urethroplasty. ; 176(2): 614–619; discussion 9. 4. Rosenbaum CM et al. (2015). Internal Urethrotomy in Patients with Recurrent Urethral Stricture after Buccal Mucosa Graft Urethroplasty. World J Urol ; 33(9): 1337–1344. 5. Zaid UB et al. (2016). Management of the Recurrent Male Urethral Stricture. ; 17(4): 33. 6. Meeks JJ et al. (2009). Stricture Recurrence after Urethroplasty: A Systematic Review. ; 182(4): 1266–1270. 7. Erickson BA et al. (2014). Multi-Institutional 1-Year Bulbar Urethroplasty Outcomes Using a Standardized Prospective Cystoscopic Follow-Up Protocol. ; 84(1): 213–216. 8. Baradaran N et al. (2019). Clinical Significance of Cystoscopic Urethral Stricture Recurrence after Anterior Urethroplasty: A Multi-Institution Analysis from Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS). ; 37(12): 2763–2768. 9. Tam CA et al. (2016). Critical Analysis of the Use of Uroflowmetry for Urethral Stricture Disease Surveillance. ; 91: 197–202. 10. Breyer BN et al. (2017). Comprehensive Qualitative Assessment of Urethral Stricture Disease: Toward the Development of a Patient-Centered Outcome Measure. ; 198(5): 1113–1118. 11. Jackson MJ et al. (2011). Defining a Patient-Reported Outcome Measure for Urethral Stricture Surgery. Eur Urol ; 60(1): 60–68. Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD Urology, Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and population health. Her areas of clinical interest include urethral strictures and upper tract genitourinary reconstruction. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage CT scan of the patient’s pelvis demonstrating a prostatic abscess. Source: NYU Langone Health Prostatic abscesses are uncommon but potentially serious infections, more frequently seen in older men with chronic comorbidities. While many providers may rely primarily on antibiotics alone for the treatment of small- to medium-size abscesses, combining antibiotic therapy with transperineal drainage may accelerate patient recovery and lead to better outcomes. Not all urology residents are skilled and confident in performing transperineal drainage. Ensuring that all such residents have the opportunity to master this technique during their training is a key step in enhancing the care and quality of life for patients with these painful complications. To highlight the benefit of having proficiency in transperineal drainage, this Case of the Month describes its use to successfully manage a prostatic abscess in a 78-year-old male. Draining the abscess permitted a quick correction of the patient’s fever and rising white blood cell (WBC) count. The patient presented with a > 3 cm abscess, fever, confusion, and a rising WBC count reaching >15,000 cells/μL (microliter). Interventional radiology could not perform a transgluteal drainage due to the small size of the abscess and recommended intravenous antibiotics. With concern for the patient’s rising WBC count, urology performed a transperineal drainage. Two days after the procedure, the patient’s WBC count dropped below 10,000 cells/μL and his fever resolved. The patient presented to the emergency department following multiple episodes of falling. He had a medical history of type 2 diabetes, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, hypertension, and a left below-the-knee amputation secondary to gangrene. The patient had been lethargic for five days, with markedly reduced oral intake. His family found him on the floor at home, prompting his presentation. On admission, the patient was febrile, with a temperature of 101.3 degrees F. He was cleared by trauma surgery after CT imaging, but an incidental finding on the CT scan prompted a urology consult: a “left intraprostatic fluid collection most compatible with abscess.” The patient was subsequently admitted for management of a prostatic abscess, failure to thrive, and recurrent falls. Physical examination of the patient was notable for an enlarged, boggy prostate, while blood work revealed a rising WBC count (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s physical examination, laboratory results, and imaging findings. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient was initiated on intravenous Zosyn and intravenous fluids. Interventional radiology (IR) was consulted for potential abscess drainage. However, IR did not drain the collection, as it was too small to target with a pigtail catheter placed by a transgluteal approach. Instead, IR recommended continued intravenous antibiotics with reimaging for resolution of the collection. Since the patient’s WBC count continued to rise, the urology service decided to perform a transperineal drainage of the prostatic abscess under transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guidance (Figure 2). Figure 2. Transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) image of the pigtail catheter placed in the abscess cavity. A total of 13 ml of purulent fluid was drained from the abscess. Cultures grew Klebsiella pneumoniae , which was sensitive to ceftazidime. The infectious disease team recommended a regimen of 2 grams of ceftazidime administered during hemodialysis. Blood cultures subsequently confirmed K. pneumoniae Follow-up CT imaging two days after placement of the catheter confirmed the appropriate position of the catheter and a decrease in the abscess size. The patient’s WBC count decreased to 9,500/μL, and he became afebrile. After five days, the drainage from the pigtail catheter ceased, and a subsequent CT scan demonstrated resolution of the abscess cavity, allowing for catheter removal (Figure 3). The patient completed a four-week course of intravenous antibiotics, as per infectious disease recommendations. This case spotlights the advantage of having transperineal drainage in the armamentarium of the urologist. Instead of waiting weeks for intravenous antibiotics to treat the infection, our urology service’s use of transperineal drainage allowed the fever to break and WBC to decrease within just two days. However, many urology residents are increasingly lacking experience and ease with the technique, even though they do develop expertise in transperineal biopsy. Integrating training in transperineal drainage would therefore be straightforward and beneficial. Figure 3. CT scan of the patient’s pelvis five days after transperineal drainage, showing no abscess cavity. The pigtail catheter is along the left prostate gland, where the previously identified prostatic abscess was. Source: NYU Langone Health This case also offers an overview of the challenges and considerations in managing prostatic abscesses. Prostatic abscesses are most frequently observed in men aged 50 to 60, but they occur in all age groups. In younger patients, the presence of a prostatic abscess warrants investigation for underlying comorbidities. Historically, prostatic abscesses were associated with chronic bacterial prostatitis, voiding dysfunction, and neurogenic voiding dysfunction. However, chronic medical conditions are now recognized as significant risk factors. These include diabetes mellitus, renal failure, liver cirrhosis, and immunocompromised states such as rheumatologic conditions. Genitourinary instrumentation is also a leading cause of prostatic abscess formation. According to one report, a history of an indwelling urethral catheter, recent urethral instrumentation, and recent prostate biopsy were present in 29, 17 and 8 percent of prostatic abscess cases, respectively. Diagnosis is primarily confirmed through imaging modalities such as CT, MRI, or TRUS of the prostate. Management depends on the abscess size and patient symptoms. For abscesses smaller than 2 cm with multiple loculations, as well as small abscesses associated with leukocytosis and minimal symptoms, antibiotic therapy based on urine or blood culture sensitivity or both can be initiated for two to three weeks, at which point the patient should be reevaluated. If the abscess persists, TRUS-guided needle aspiration and/or perineal drainage with a pigtail catheter, or transurethral resection/unroofing of the abscess cavity should be performed. If the abscess is larger than 2 cm and associated with severe lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), urinary retention, sepsis, or leukocytosis, then TRUS-guided transperineal abscess drainage with a pigtail catheter and urinary diversion with a suprapubic catheter may be considered. Another alternative may be to engage IR to perform a transgluteal drainage. If there is persistence of the abscess despite drainage, transurethral unroofing of the large abscess should be considered. The advantage of transperineal or transgluteal drainage over unroofing is the preservation of antegrade ejaculation. For all large abscesses, prolonged antibiotic therapy for four to six weeks is required. The successful outcome of this case underscores the importance of careful monitoring and a tailored multidisciplinary treatment approach. 1.Ackerman AL et al. (2018). Diagnosis and Treatment of Patients with Prostatic Abscess in the Post-Antibiotic Era. Int J Urol ; 25(2):103–110. 2. Elshal AM et al. (2014). Prostatic Abscess: Objective Assessment of the Treatment Approach in the Absence of Guidelines. Arab J. Urol. ; 12:262–268. 3. Vyas JB et al. (2013). Transrectal Ultrasound-Guided Aspiration in the Management of Prostatic Abscess: A Single-Center Experience. Indian J. Radiol. Imaging ; 23:253–257. Frederick A. Gulmi, MD, chief of urology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, is a clinical associate professor of urology and vice chairman of the Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s has been awarded the prestigious T32 training program grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) multiple times. The funding expands the division’s ability to train and educate the next generation of research leaders in rheumatology. , assistant director of NYU Langone Health’s and former recipient of the T32 grant, discusses how the funding provided her unique training opportunities and financial resources for the acquisition and development of research skills. She also highlights some of her ongoing multidisciplinary research and clinical care initiatives, fostering new innovations in the field of rheumatology. Equipping New Researchers with Knowledge and Skills Dr. Haberman, you’ve been a recipient of the T32 training grant. How did it help you as a researcher? Dr. Haberman: Overall, the grant funding has allowed me to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills that will help me to develop my own independent research program—something I’ve always wanted to do. “As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients.” As a fellow in the Division of Rheumatology , I worked under the mentorship of , director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, as well as other members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s , which fostered my interest in psoriatic arthritis and outcomes-based research. As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients. Unique and Specialized Training Opportunities How did the funding prepare you for a career in outcomes-based rheumatology research? Along with the funding came unique training opportunities. For example, I was able to obtain an MS in Clinical Investigation (MSCI) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute , which allowed me to become more efficient and productive in my research. With respect to cross-discipline collaboration, opportunities were readily available in my training program. Strong mentorship from investigators in other departments provided me with a solid foundation on which to analyze data and design new studies—at the heart of research education for clinical trainees is to increase their