HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 22 OF 31 3. Exterior Tactile Signs a. Etched Zinc Signs: 1/8” thick Alloy plate. 1). Zinc must be able to accept a chemical etching process for fabrication of raised numbers and letters with corresponding Grade II braille on metal background, to conform to 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. 2). All exposed edges must be softened or eased and not have sharp edges or corners. b. Painted finishes for Exterior Tactile Signs shall comply with the following performance requirements: 1). Weatherability: When tested in accordance with ASTM G 53, after 500 hours in a Weatherometer (equivalent to approximately 3 years exterior exposure), Gloss retention not less than 88.0 determined in accordance with ASTM D 523 at a 60 degree angle, Color shall not change more than 1.68 units determined in accordance with ASTM D 2244 and measured with a Hunter Colorimeter, Model D25. 2). Durability: Sign finish shall not be affected after repeated use of cleaners including graffiti removers. N. Medium Density Fiberboard (MDF): ANSI A208.2, Grade 130, made with binder containing no urea formaldehyde resin. O. Particleboard: ANSI A208.1, Grade M 2, made with binder containing no urea formaldehyde resin. P. Vinyl 1. Provide opaque or translucent film as specified with repositionable adhesive backing, suitable for interior and exterior applications. Use positionable and pressure activated adhesive. Apply adhesive only when minimum application temperature is 40°F (4°C), and maximum application temperature is 100°F (38°C). Provide film with a seven (7) year exposure life, when applied in accordance with manufacturer’s recommended procedures. 2. Provide digitally printed optically clear film: Lintec Wincos Optically Clear Polyester Film for UV Curable and Latex Printing, 2 mil thick with digitally printed graphics and protective overprint. 3. Provide ASTM D4956 reflective vinyl sheeting with a minimum 7 year outdoor durability rating and suitable for machine cut graphics in size and type specified in sign program Contract Documents. Processed, cut and applied according to manufacturer’s specifications. a. 3M Advanced Engineer Grade Prismatic Sheeting Series 7930 with pressure sensitive adhesive. 2.3 FINISHES A. Paints, Inks, Coatings 1. All colors shall be exactly reproduced as specified and shall match submitted samples. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 23 OF 31 a. For exposed sign material that requires selection of materials with integral or applied colors, surface textures or other characteristics related to appearance, provide color matches indicated, or if not indicated, provide samples for selections by the Design Consultant. 2. Manufacturer’s color system numbers indicted on Design Drawings are for color matching purposes only. Sign Contractor is responsible for matching specified colors in the appropriate sign coating products and graphic application methods. 3. Paint Manufacturer: a. Matthews Paint Company, 400 South Mercantile Court, or Approved Equal 4. Ink Manufacturer a. Nazdar Ink Technologies, or approved equal 5. All exposed surfaces of exterior signs to receive satin finish anti graffiti UV clear coating a. Matthews Paint Super Satin Clearcoat: 1.24 low VOC, acrylic polyurethane clear coat with 10 year life expectancy, or approved equal. 6. All paint shall be applied using a high pressure spray in dust free conditions and shall be allowed to dry or cure properly before being moved. 7. Painted surfaces and other applied finishes shall have a smooth, even finish and be free of imperfections, marks, scratches, embedded dirt, wave patters or other irregularities. 8. Paint required in fabrication, including paint for lettering, screened copy, subsurface copy, etc. shall be compatible with the materials to which it is applied and shall be guaranteed not to cause discoloration, deterioration or delamination for any reason, including exposure to heat, sunlight, weathering or other environmental conditions. 9. Paint for signage surfaces to be satin finish unless otherwise specified on drawings. Inks for silkscreen graphics and tipped tactile copy shall be non glare. 10. Paints shall be precisely identified on the shop drawings and submitted samples. 11. Prime coats or other surface pre treatments, where recommended by the manufacturer of the paint, shall be included in the work. 2.4 GRAPHICS AND PROCESSES A. General 1. Graphics shall be highest quality with sharp lines and smooth curves. Images shall be uniform colors and free from streaks or spotting. 2. Scalable vector art for Symbols shall be provided digitally by Design Consultant in Adobe Illustrator format for placement on final sign layouts. 3. Scalable vector artwork for Logos must be obtained by the sign fabricator from Owner’s official sources. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 24 OF 31 4. All other artwork required shall be produced by the Sign Fabricator. Under no circumstances should any artwork be extracted from the Contract Documents. 5. Sign Fabricator shall apply messaging from Message Schedule to provide all unique sign layouts that comply with requirements indicated for size, style, spacing, content, position, material, finishes, and colors of letters, numbers, and other graphic devices shown on the Contract Documents. B. Typography and Layout 1. The contractor is responsible for purchasing specified typefaces. 2. Use exact fonts as specified on the Construction Intent Drawings. No substitutions shall be allowed. 3. The layout of the copy on the drawings and the wording indicated is for placement only and based on scaled calculations within given and estimated areas. Should any conflict arise in the final copy layout, notify the Design Consultant before proceeding. In no event shall size, number of lines of copy or specified letter, word and/or line spacing be modified to get copy to fit. 4. Generate type or patterns directly using a computer driven plotter or cutter equal to systems manufactured by Gerber Scientific Products, Inc., or approved equal. Match typefaces to specified cuts exactly. Do not use type or patterns, where Gerber versions of faces do not satisfactorily match specified faces. 5. Contractor to prepare and provide sign and type layouts to comply with the requirements indicated in the Construction Intent documents for content, graphic elements, symbols, type/number style, sizing, letter spacing, positioning, finishes, and colors. 6. Do not allow manufacturer's name, trade name or trademark to appear on visible surface of the work. Place Underwriter's Laboratory or other labels in inconspicuous locations. C. Braille 1. Grade 2 with rounded or domed shape to conform with American National Standards ICC/ANSI A117.1 as referenced on Article 1.9. 2. Sign Contractor is responsible for all braille message translations. D. Acid Etching 1. Acid etching for ADA lettering to be into metal plate to a minimum thickness of 1/32”. 2. Acid etching process for fabrication of incised lettering / graphics on metal or glass background as specified in Contract Documents. E. Engraving 1. Machine engraved letters, numbers, symbols, and other graphic elements into sign panel on the face indicated in Contract Documents to produce precisely formed copy, incised to uniform depth. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 25 OF 31 Use high speed cutters mechanically linked to a master template in a process capable of producing characters of style indicated with sharply formed edges. 2. Face Engraved Acrylic: Fill engraved copy with epoxy enamel. Apply opaque background color coating to back face of acrylic sheet. Engrave copy to produce a minimum depth of 1/32”. F. Silkscreening 1. Silk screening shall be highest quality, with sharp lines, no sawtooths, pinholes or uneven ink coverage. 2. Screens shall be photographically reproduced. 3. Background ink shall be process inks as recommended by manufacturer of substrate employed. 4. Ink application through screens: 1 flood pass and 1 print pass. Images: uniform color and ink thickness; free from squeegee marks and lines. 5. Signs: dry in adequate racks with 2 in. spacing for ample air flow and forced air drying and curing. 6. Package signs only after they have dried completely per ink manufacturer's time allowances. G. Dimensional Letters and Logos 1. Fabricated a. Form exposed faces and sides of characters to produce surfaces free from warp and distortion. Include internal bracing for stability and attachment of mounting accessories. 2. Water jet Cut a. Provide characters with square cut, smooth, eased edges in materials and thickness indicated on Contract Documents. H. Die Cut Vinyl Letters 1. Provide right reading or reverse reading characters and graphics as indicated by the Contract Documents. Electronically cut from vinyl film with adhesive backing. I. Digitally Printed Reflective Vinyl Graphics 1. 3M 8800 Series UV inkjet inks printed by Durst Rho 161 TS & Rho 162 TS printers a. As manufactured by Sherine Industries, ltd. (604) 513 1887 www.sherineindustires.com 2. 3M 8900 Series UV inkjet inks printed by EFI H1625 RS printer. J. Direct to Substrate Graphics 1. Large format flat bed UV curable graphics shall be full color CMYK + White of at least 300 dpi. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 26 OF 31 2. Colors shall exhibit full coverage without any transparency or knockouts unless specified. Where necessary, a white base layer shall be laid down prior to color printing to achieve maximum color vibrancy. Where necessary, multiple passes shall be employed to achieve suitable color densities. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 27 OF 31 PART 3 EXECUTION 3.1 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS A. Sign Contractor shall furnish at own cost all labor, tools, materials, expendable equipment, and transportation services required to perform and complete the work in the best possible and most expeditious manner, and in accordance with Contract Documents. B. It shall be assumed that the Contractor has inspected the site and is aware of all site and operational conditions affecting the fabrication and installation of the work. No extra charges shall be claimed or allowed due to a failure of the Contractor from making such inspections. C. Failure to request clarification of any inadequacy, omission or conflict will not relieve the Contractor of responsibility. D. All work shall be performed in accordance with the written schedule agreed on by Owner, Design Consultant and Sign Installer. In any case where work cannot be completed on schedule, the Contractor shall supply temporary signs at no additional expense to the Owner. E. All submissions shall be reviewed and have received final approval by Design Consultant, in addition to stamped engineering drawings where required, prior to fabrication of project sign requirements. 3.2 FABRICATION A. Confer with the Design Consultant regarding all critical items and advise the Design Consultant of any significant discrepancies in field measurements or operational difficulties prior to fabrication. Obtain the Design Consultant's written approval for any resulting deviations from the specifications and/or approved shop drawings that may become necessary. B. All work shall be constructed as complete systems, including all stiffeners, fasteners, welding, sealants, jointing, miscellaneous pieces and material thicknesses, etc. C. Unless otherwise shown on the Drawings, all members shall be continuous lengths without seams. Work shall be formed to profiles indicated on the Drawings. D. Where material lengths require joints, all joints shall be flush. Similar materials at joints shall be either bonded or welded together, or shall be lap jointed to provide for expansion. All joints to be light proof. E. Preassemble signs in the shop to the greatest extent possible to minimize field assembly. Disassemble signs only as necessary for shipping and handling limitations. Clearly mark units for reassembly and installation, in a location not exposed to view after final assembly. All work "broken down" shall be erected so that all parts fit accurately with hairline joints. F. Work shall be performed by competent workmen and shall be of the best quality, free from defects impairing strength, durability and appearance. All items shall be made of new materials and be uniform in detail design and finish. G. Methods of fabrication, joining, finishing and installation of all components and work shall be according to the manufacturer's instructions for the use of any products, materials, fittings and equipment used in their construction. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 28 OF 31 H. All details of construction are to be engineered with appropriate strength materials and finished to withstand the potential rigors of their installed locations. 3.3 PERMITS A. Sign Contractor is responsible for obtaining, at their own expense, all necessary permits required by Local Authorities. Including, but not limited to zoning, construction, sidewalk, signage, electrical. All permits shall be obtained in sufficient time to prevent any delays in executing the work. 3.4 INSTALLATION A. Install the work in a well organized and timely manner. Whenever possible, the work shall be installed as one continuous activity. The installation process shall be coordinated to accommodate the needs of both the Owner and Design Consultant. B. Coordinate all scheduling and installation procedures with the Owner, Design Consultant, General Contractor and others to avoid delays or additional costs. C. Inform the Design Consultant, at least two weeks in advance, of any intended installation and arrange, at the Design Consultant's convenience to have all patterns in place, and initial signs of each type ready for installation and approval by the Design Consultant on site before proceeding with the rest of the installation. It is important that such approval processes be organized efficiently so that approvals can take place in a timely manner. D. Sign Contractor is responsible for verifying all field conditions and dimensions prior to fabrication and installation. Should Sign Installer find any discrepancies during installation, they shall notify the Design Consultant at once, to await clarification, prior to proceeding. E. Prepare all encountered surfaces as required to receive signage, including confirming of adding blocking where required. F. No installation procedures or materials shall be used that will in any way change the visual quality or in any manner have an adverse effect on adjacent materials and surfaces. G. Protect all adjacent surfaces from damage during installation. Restore or replace any damaged surfaces to original condition and appearance. H. Install all signs at the locations and heights specified in the Contract Documents. 1. Mount signs at projection distance from wall surface indicated. 2. All signs shall be installed level and plumb and parallel to the surface upon which they are mounted, unless otherwise specified. 3. Use mounting methods of the type described and in compliance with the manufacturer's instructions. 4. For signs installed at exterior locations, include all elements recommended by manufacturers and good practice to insure weatherproofing for internal and external parts and materials. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 29 OF 31 5. Where appropriate, notify Design Consultant in writing of any visual or physical conflicts. Neither the Owner nor the Design Consultant will be responsible for oral instructions. I. Follow recommendations and instructions for installation as provided by component manufacturers. Notify the Design Consultant in writing if such installation will not provide permanent, rigid installation within site conditions. J. Dimensional Characters: Mount characters using fastening methods to comply with approved shop drawings and/or as required by character form, wall construction, and condition of exposure. Provide heavy paper template pattern to establish character spacing and to locate holes for fasteners. 3. Flush Mounting: Mount letters with backs in contact with the wall surface. 4. Projected Mounting: Mount letter at the indicated projection distance from the wall surface. K. Wall Mounted Panel Signs: Attach panel signs to wall surfaces using the methods indicated below: 1. Vinyl Tape Mounting: Use double sided foam tape to mount signs to smooth, nonporous surfaces. Do not use this method for vinyl covered or rough surfaces. a. Adhesive foam mounting tape shall be 1/2" wide and 1/16" thick. Coverage shall be at least one continuous strip of tape at four inch intervals. No tape shall be closer than 1/2" from the edge of any component 2. Silicone Adhesive Mounting: Use liquid silicone adhesive recommended by the sign manufacturer to attach sign units to irregular, porous, or vinyl covered surfaces. Use double sided vinyl tape where recommended by the sign manufacturer to hold the sign in place until the adhesive has fully cured. 3. Shim Plate Mounting: Provide 3/16 inch thick concealed acrylic shim, at all locations indicated. Attach the plate with fasteners and anchors suitable for secure attachment to the substrate. Attach panel sign units to the plate using the method specified above. L. Bracket Mounted Signs: Provide brackets, fittings, and hardware for mounting signs that project at right angles from walls and ceilings to comply with approved shop drawings and/or as required by wall construction and condition of exposure. Attach brackets and fittings securely to walls and ceilings with concealed fasteners and anchoring devices to comply with manufacturer’s written instructions. M. In Situ Direct Applications: Provide silkscreened or frisket painted signs using inks and coatings suitable for the surface to be applied to. 3.5 CLEANING AND PROTECTION A. All work shall be provided with suitable protective coverings during shipment and installation. Remove and replace protective coating for inspection when requested. Final removal of protective coatings shall take place only when there is no danger of damage from further work, and all protective coatings shall be removed simultaneously from similarly finished items to prevent uneven oxidation or discoloration. B. Remove packing and construction materials from the site. Leave premises broom clean and ready for work under other contracts or ready for use. Vacuum any carpets and spot clean where if necessary. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 30 OF 31 C. All existing exterior surfaces within (5) feet of installed signs to be returned to the same condition and quality that was present before the installation of signage, including material, finish, grading, and landscaping. D. At completion of the installation, clean soiled sign surfaces in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Exposed surfaces of all work shall be left clean and free of glue, fingerprints, dirt, grease, dust or any other imperfections. E. Protect units from damage until acceptance by the Owner F. Names, stamps and decals of manufacturers, installers or maintainers of signs shall not be visible in the finish work. If an Underwriter’s Laboratory or other label is required by code to be affixed to a sign, it shall be placed in an inconspicuous location. 3.6 INSPECTION AND PUNCHLIST A. Provide access to the Design Consultant to inspect all work in progress at the site of fabrication and/or installation. B. Sign Contractor to ensure Quality Control 1. Inspect all signs prior to packing and ensure fabrication is in accordance with Project Requirements and free of defects prior to shipping to the site. 2. Review all installation for completeness and accuracy. Submit to Owner (2) certified copies of each page of all sign schedules stating installation is complete and correct prior to requesting approval of Substantial Completion. C. Final Punch List will be conducted by Owner and Design Consultant. 3.7 CLOSE OUT SUBMISSIONS A. Maintenance Manual: Sign Contractor shall turn over to Owner all operating and maintenance data, warranties, and bonds, spare parts, and maintenance materials as applicable. 1. Instructions shall address periodic cleaning, service access, painting, color specifications, re lamping, replacement procedures, etc. Provide detailed troubleshooting and "what to check" lists for all customized electrical or mechanical systems. B. Electronic templates for all paper insert sign types in Microsoft Word format. C. Record Drawings: Provide the following 1. One (1) digital copy of As Built shop drawings, including Graphic Layouts, no larger than 11 x 17. Drawings are to include all final notes, dimensions and drawing 2. One (1) digital copy of final Sign Location Plans 3. One (1) Record Set of Specifications including addenda and contract modifications. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 31 OF 31 4. One (1) Record set Product Data, insert into maintenance manual when required as part of operations and maintenance 5. Two (2) of each approved material / finish sample END OF SECTION