regions (California, the Northeast, and Florida) and urban congressional districts generally, at .Racial and ethnic disparitiesin low birth weight are observed across districts, with particularly stark disparities in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, North Carolina, and South Carolina. In more than three quarters of the districts in these states, Black newborns are roughly twice as likely to be underweight at birth than White babies, with other racial and ethnic groups falling between.Data shown here is from 2020. See more at congressionaldistricthealthdashboard.org21Our Commitment to Carbon Neutrality by 2050In 2022, NYU Langone expanded its carbon reduction goal to carbon neutrality by 2050 through a commitment to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Climate Pledge. We joined other leading health systems, representing more than 650 hospitals and thousands of other physician providers, to strengthen national resilience to climate change. NYU Langone is among just a handful of health systems in New York State to join this pledge. Our work to significantly reduce our carbon emissions will not only reduce the demand of natural resources through efficient operations and cleaner energy, but also build and support healthy and equitable communities.Clinical Sustainability Advisory BoardInitiatives Reduce Environmental FootprintCaring for our environment strengthens the health of ourcommunities. As we reduce our carbon emissions, we improve the quality of our air and water for generations to come. The Clinical Sustainability Advisory Board (CSAB) at NYU Langone comprises clinicians and staff leading initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint in clinical areas across the institution. This advisory board ideates and develops long term programs to build a culture of sustainability and to empower staff to take climate action within their roles. Members of CSAB have led a number of initiatives, such as reducing energy use in our operating rooms when not in use, organizing medical supply donations, and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions from anesthetic gases.Reducing Energy Use in Operating RoomsNursing staff are trained to activate a setback program when our operating rooms are not in use as an effort to reduce wasted energy. When activated, the program decreases ventilation rates while maintaining the required humidity, temperature, and pressure in a safe and compliant manner.There are more than 65 operating rooms across the healthsystem that participate, reducing our use of energy derived from fossil fuels, which contribute to air pollution.Donating Medical SuppliesNYU Langone donated 119,600 pounds of medical supplies and equipment last year to aid in relief efforts worldwide. These supplies were distributed to organizations on the ground for recovery efforts for Hurricane Fiona in Puerto Rico, the war torn regions of Ukraine, and earthquakes in Turkey and Syria. Thisprogram provides a second life for supplies no longer needed, diverts waste from landfill, and supports humanitarian efforts.Reducing Anesthetic Gas EmissionsWhile necessary in the healthcare environment, anesthetic gases are potent greenhouse gases by nature. Not all anesthetic gases are created equal, however—desflurane has a global warming potential (GWP) 10.6 times that of sevoflurane and 2.6 times that of isoflurane. In response, leadership in the NYU Langone Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care, and Pain Medicine removed desflurane from the anesthetics formulary in 2021. In addition, the team focuses on physician education around effective low fresh gas flow techniques thatreduce the overall use of anesthetic gases.CSAB members led an initiative to recycle rigid plastics used during surgical procedures and from supply packaging in a safe and streamlined process. This program diverts waste from landfill and reduces contamination of the recycling stream.22NYU Langone strives to provide medically necessary care to patients of their inpatient and outpatient facilities regardless of patients’ ability to pay for the services rendered. We’re here to help you navigate through any questions you have about your bill from NYU Langone, which includes our Manhattan hospitals (Tisch Hospital, Kimmel, Hassenfeld, Langone Orthopedic Hospital [LOH], Rusk Rehabilitation), NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, as well as associated outpatient locations.Payor Mix and Navigating Insurance CoverageNYU Langone participates in many health plan networks. Each health plan creates a network of doctors and hospitals who have agreed to be in that network. Some health plans use smaller networks for certain services, so it is important to check whether we participate in the specific plan that covers you. In 2022, of our inpatients were enrolled in a commercial or government sponsored insurance plan. Nearly two thirds of our inpatients were enrolled in a government sponsored insurance plan. If you do not have health insurance, please call us at 212 263 1481 to get information about an out of pocket cost estimate, or to learn more about our Financial Assistance Policy and your eligibility for subsidized health insurance through programs such as Medicaid.Price Transparency and Out of Pocket CostsOut of pocket costs for healthcare services may vary significantly across health systems, even for common procedures. At NYU Langone, we are committed to providing you with this information up front so that you can make the best choice for yourself and your family. We provide several tools to help you estimate your out of pocket costs through our website, nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistanceCharity Care and Financial Assistance PolicyIn the last fiscal year, NYU Langone Hospitals provided over $70M in charity care to our patients. NYU Langone Hospitals recognizes that there are times when patients in need of care will have difficulty paying for the services provided. The hospital provides discounts to qualifying individuals based on income. In addition, we can help you apply for free or low cost insurance if you qualify. Just contact one of our Financial Counseling Offices at these convenient locations for free, confidential assistance.Manhattan550 1st Avenue, Room SK866 486 9847Brooklyn150 55th Street, Suite LB 2940718 630 6252Long Island131 Mineola Blvd., Suite 105516 663 8373For more information, please visit our website at nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistanceMEASURING OUR IMPACT:Access to World Class Care2022 PAYOR MIX SELF PAY COMMERCIAL MEDICARE MEDICAID23The Office of Government and Community Affairs at NYU Langone Health collaborates with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community based organizations through partnerships that enhance the vibrancy of the communities in which our patients reside, and that provide services, programs, and events to the community at large.Contact the Office of Government and Community Affairs: Gilda Ventresca EcroydVice President, Government and Community Affairsgilda.ventresca ecroyd@nyulangone.orgAshley MorrisseySenior Director, State Affairsashley.morrissey@nyulangone.orgHannah WadeDirector, City Affairs and Public Policyhannah.wade@nyulangone.orgSara OstolazaManager, Community and City Affairssara.ostolaza@nyulangone.orgPatricia BarragaSenior Government Affairs Analystpatricia.barraga@nyulangone.orgRebecca BergerSenior Government Affairs Analystrebecca.berger@nyulangone.orgJames ToussaintPolicy Analystjames.toussaint@nyulangone.orgJonathan Martinez Community Affairs Coordinatorjonathan.martinez3@nyulangone.orgMyles DavisAdvisormyles.davis@nyulangone.orgElizabeth RomanExecutive Assistantelizabeth.roman@nyulangone.org24Office of Government and Community AffairsOne Park Avenue, 4th FloorNew York, NY 10016nyulangone.org/gcaAll NYU Langone Health inpatient locations earned Magnet Recognition for nursing excellence, making us the only hospital system in New York State to earn this status.Copyright © 2023 NYU Langone Health. All rights reserved.