shall be provided on EACH section of coil within a unit that is subject to outside air. Follow freezestat requirements in the BMS guidelines section. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 420 2024 If a unit has multiple coils, each coil section shall be provided with its own control valve. Freeze type plug valves are not allowed. AHU coils to be provided with a full size manual bypass ball valve around control valve. Traps for cooling and steam coils shall have proper heights for the removal of condensate. Coils not specifically listed in approved manufacturers below are acceptable only if the Air Handling manufacturer builds and tests the coils in their factory. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Hot water/Chilled water coils shall not be bottom fed. These coils shall be top or side fed. Refer to Variable Air Volume section for reheat coil information. Design engineer to consider utilizing dual purpose CHW/HW coils to combine coils in AHUs. Engineer shall perform an analysis on applicability of such a coil and present to the corresponding campus facility team for review. Approved Manufacturers: a. Water/Steam 1) Aerofin 2) Heat Craft 3) Temtrol 4) RAE 16. Cooling Towers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. All towers shall have accessible fan motors for removal. Catwalks shall be provided for fan motors that are installed on the outside of the unit. Provide means of removal of fan motor. Railings shall always be provided on top of the unit. Ladders shall be provided for access to the top of the unit. Freeze protection (steam or electric) shall be provided on towers that will not be drained down during the winter season freeze protection pump shall be provided on a case by case basis as secondary protection. Major cooling towers shall be induced draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. If towers have multiple cells, each cell shall have means of walking between each cell. Catwalks shall be installed inside all cells for maintenance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 421 2024 Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. Minor cooling towers shall be force draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. ¾” hose bib shall be installed for cleaning purposes. All cooling towers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Marley b. Baltimore Aircoil Company c. Evapco 17. Controllers (Water Level) Controllers shall be floats or digital type. Design shall be discussed with Facilities Operations. Ensure that the level controllers are accounted for and integrated into the BMS. Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. McDonnell Miller b. B&W c. Magnatrol International, Inc. 18. Dampers (ALD's) Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Damper adjustment hardware and actuators shall extend past ductwork insulation. Provide Access Doors for damper blades and actuator (if access is an issue). Damper actuators are not permitted to be mounted in the airstream, shall be mounted on the exterior of the ductwork unless inside of a large Air Handling Unit. If actuator has to be installed inside ductwork due to size requirements, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Double actuators should not be used unless reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Actuators shall be sized to provide proper torque via one actuator. Damper actuators are to be mounted on damper axels directly. Linkages are to be avoided. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 422 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco 19. Dampers (Dynamic Fire/Smoke) All fire smoke dampers to be full throat and shall not obstruct the air stream or reduce the area of the duct in any manner. Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Fire Smoke Dampers shall be provided with damper blade end switches not actuator end switches. Fire smoke dampers shall be installed with a service switch per code requirements. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. All access doors for FSDs shall include a label on the door indicating what the access is for. Per NYS Mechanical Code requirements, all FSD/SD/FD access doors shall be labeled “Fire/Smoke Damper Access Door”. Access door shall also be tagged per the NYULH naming convention. Damper actuators are not permitted to be mounted in the airstream, shall be mounted on the exterior of the ductwork. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco e. Pottorff f. Honeywell 20. Expansion Compensation Expansion compensators shall be designed and shown on drawings with proper guiding and anchors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Type Expansion Joints 1) Advanced Thermal Systems 2) Hyspan Barco b. Braided Type Expansion Loops 1) Metraflex NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 423 2024 c. Corrugated Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Keflex 3) Metraflex d. Slip Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Metraflex 21. Expansion Tanks Expansion tanks shall have waterside and airside gauges on bladder type tanks. Drain points shall be provided on waterside section. All expansion tanks shall have replaceable bladders. Approved Manufacturers: a. Adamson b. Amtrol c. Bell & Gossett d. John Woods e. RECO f. TACO g. Armstrong 22. Fans If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Spring type vibration isolators shall always be provided. Neoprene type isolators can be provided for fans less than 100lbs. If neoprene is used, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Motors which are located on the outside of the fan housing shall have an internal access point to provide access to internal sheave. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Patient isolation rooms shall have a dedicated exhaust system, which shall not be picked up by the air handling unit. Fumehood chemical exhaust shall be stainless steel welded ductwork. All fume hood risers shall be pitched back to the chemical fume hood. Fume hoods shall be tested to ANSI/ASHRAE 110 standards. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Fan inlet boxes shall follow SMACNA HVAC Systems Design Handbook and shall not be field fabricated without verification the SMACNA standards were followed. Belt driven fan shall not be provided with variable pulleys if equipped with a VFD. Only fixed pully shall be allowed on such systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 424 2024 Fumehood exhaust fan PLC’s shall be used for monitoring only. Control for fan speed, static pressure, bypass damper, etc. shall be done through the BMS. Approved Manufacturers: a. Howden Buffalo b. Strobic Air c. Greenheck d. Cook e. PennBarry f. Twin City g. Aerovent 23. Fan Powered Boxes Fan Powered Boxes shall have pressure independent control. Units shall be designed with a local disconnect switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus 24. Fan Coil Units Provide with 2 way controls and condensate pump (or gravity drain). Separate stainless steel drain pan shall be installed underneath unit. Pumps, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. York/Johnson Controls b. Liebert c. Data Aire d. International 25. Firestopping Products Firestopping products shall not be used unless required for fire or smoke barriers. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 425 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Hilti 26. Flow Measuring Devices Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new feed shall be similarly metered. Hot wire type air flow measurement devices are not acceptable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Air Systems 1) Air Monitor Corporation 2) Tek Air Systems, Inc. 3) Ebtron b. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim c. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Electromagnetic Flow Meter) 1) Krohne 2) Yokogawa 3) Emerson 4) Siemens d. Steam Systems (Insertion Turbine or Vortex or Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim 2) Spirax Sarco ILVA 3) Rosemount 4) Vortek Instruments 27. Fuel Oil Pumping Systems Pumping system shall be installed in a space that will provide access for periodic maintenance including removal of motors, impellers, and accessories. In flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations) provide water tight enclosure that will allow the pumps to operate during a flood. Controls and all power conduits to be within water tight installations until outside of flood zone. Fuel oil containment piping which is horizontal shall be pitched back to leak containment drum. Vertical fuel oil risers shall also drain into leak containment drum. Horizontal containment shall be a pipe in pipe no other means of containment is allowed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 426 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. IMO c. Deval d. Viking 28. Fuel Oil Specialties Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Preferred Utilities Mfg. Corp. 29. Fuel Oil Tanks Fuel oil tank shall be bolted to the structure to prevent floating in case of a flood. All preventable flood requirements shall be analyzed if fuel oil tank is to be installed in a flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations). Approved Manufacturers: a. Fiberglass 1) Xerxes Corp. 2) Cardinal Fiberglass Industries 3) Containment Solutions b. Steel 1) ISP 2) Highland Tank & Mfg. Co. 3) Adamson Global Technology Corporation 4) Cardinal Tank Corporation 30. Fuel Oil Tank Gauging and Leak Detection Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Veeder Root 31. Freezestats See controls subsection for Low Temperature Switches. 32. Hangers, Anchors and Guides All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. 33. Heat Exchangers For shell and tube heat exchangers, relief valves shall be located on the hot and cold side of heat exchanger and sized to the working pressure of the system. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 427 2024 Plate and Frame heat exchangers shall be located on a housekeeping pad. No equipment shall be installed on the plate side of a heat exchanger proper access for removal of plates shall always be maintained. Heat exchangers shall be provided with strapped or clipped removable shrouds. Heat exchangers shall be AHRI certified. All plate and frame heat exchangers shall be installed with removable sheetmetal insulated covers with separated walls and roofs. Cover walls and roofs shall be secured with hinged latches. Approved Manufacturers: a. Plate and Frame 1) Alfha Laval 2) Sondex (Danfoss) 3) Bell and Gossett b. Shell and Tube 1) Bell & Gossett 34. Heat Trace Refer to electrical guidelines for details. 35. Humidifiers Humidifiers shall be supplied with Humidistat and also an airflow switch for preventing humidifier operation without airflow. Humidstat shall be designed to be controlled via a cascaded loop. For proper control, the humidistat shall be installed as close to the duct riser/space as possible for better dispersion. Humidifiers shall be resistive type not electrode type. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Armstrong 2) Dri Steam 3) Nortec 4) Condair b. Water Spray (cannot be used in Article 28 spaces) 1) Armstrong 2) Herrmidifier 3) Cold Fog 4) Condair 36. Insulation (Duct and Pipe) All supply ductwork shall be insulated on the outside. No acoustic insulation is allowed inside the ductwork unless encapsulated with a mylar, tedlar, or approved NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 428 2024 equivalent type membrane. Insulation shall not cover any damper adjustment hardware. All acoustical lining on the inside of any ducts to be reviewed with Facilities Operations. Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Ductwork located outside shall have proper weatherproofing for use outdoors. Outdoor ductwork must have internal rigid supports to create a pitched top and prevent water accumulation on top of the duct. Steam station and steam piping shall have insulation designed such that no point of insulation is greater than 10 degrees above ambient temperature. Strainers and automatic control valves that are installed on piping which is insulated shall have removable insulation covers that are secured with straps or ties. Insulation contractor shall not encase strainer and automatic control valves in field fabricated insulation.The following ductwork shall be insulated: • Supply Air. • Outdoor air. • Return located in unconditioned space. • Type I, commercial, kitchen hood exhaust. • Oven and warewash exhaust. • Exhaust between isolation damper and penetration of building exterior. • Supply and return located outdoors. Generator exhausts located indoors shall be insulated with Calcium Silicate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armacell b. Armstrong c. Knauf d. Johns Manville e. Owens Corning Fiberglas (O C F) f. P.P.G. (Pittsburgh Plate Glass) 37. Meters and Gauges Controls, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Temperature Scale Ranges: • Chilled Water Piping: 0 to 100 deg F • Condenser Water Piping: 0 to 150 deg F NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 429 2024 • Heating, Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F • Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F • Steam Piping: 212 to 500 deg F Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Sisco 3) Watts Regulator b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler e. Compound Gauge 1) Winters 2) Weiss 38. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a fan array system and over hertzing is being implemented, L10 life shall be greater than 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a VFD system, the motor shall be inverter duty rated. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 430 2024 Motors enclosures shall be TEFC. Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg c. Electronically Commutated Motor 1) Ziehl Abegg 39. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 40. Motor Control Centers See Electrical Design Guidelines 41. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Provide two VFDs one lead and one lag unless part of a fan array system see Air Handling Unit subsection for fan array VFDs. VFDs shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. All conduits in a controlled enclosure or electrical enclosure shall have sealed conduits. VFDs shall not be installed under any piping trim or joints. If VFD is installed under piping due to physical install constraints, NEMA 4 or 6 shall be used. All locations of VFDs that are below piping shall be approved by Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 431 2024 Harmonic Filtering is required on all variable speed drives. Design engineer to discuss with Facilities Management prior to design if active or passive harmonic filtering to be required. Field Testing on all VFDs powering 25hp motors and larger shall be provided and confirmed that Total Harmonic Distortion does not exceed . At the point of common connection, current Total Harmonic Distortion shall not exceed . Startup and setup shall be done by the current NYU Langone VFD vendor. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. Duct seal putty shall be used on all conduit connections to air handling VFDs. Do not select VFDs with a Bluetooth option. VFDs that are backed up by emergency power shall be selected and programmed to ride through a voltage dip, manual switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa), and ride through an automatic switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa). Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. Yaskawa Electric America c. Danfoss 42. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 43. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. For piping within technology space, no piping shall be provided in the technology space unless it is required for equipment within the room. All piping that is in the technology room must not be routed over technology equipment. All valves and metering associated with piping must have a drip pan located underneath with water detection. Press fittings can be considered on a case by case basis. Discuss this request with NYULH Engineering prior to design. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 432 2024 a. Mechanical Couplings for Grooved Pipe 1) Grooved piping shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and shall be based on a project by project basis prior to its use in design. b. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) 44. Pressure Regulating Valves/Stations High, Low, Medium pressure steam pipe gaskets are to be graphite type. Flexseal gaskets will not be accepted. All steam station pneumatic lines must match the size of the controller’s pneumatic connection and be run as copper hard piping, soft tubing not accepted. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Leslie 2) Fairchild 3) Fische 4) Circor 5) Warren Controls 6) Emerson b. Water 1) Leslie 2) Cla Val 3) Watts 45. Pumps All pumps shall be premium efficiency. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Pumps shall be provided with either a strainer or suction diffusers with drain. Pump trim shall not have a balancing valve if pump will be provided with a VFD. Piping and pumps are to be independently supported. Spring type isolators on piping shall be recommended by acoustical consultant. If no consultant is on project, all piping within 50 feet of pump shall have spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 433 2024 Chilled and hot water pumps shall be installed with removable sheetmetal insulated covers with separated walls and roofs. Cover walls and roofs shall be secured with hinged latches. Pumps with integrated VFDs shall not be used for any critical infrastructure loops. Approved Manufacturers: a. Horizontal Split, End Suction and In Line 1) Armstrong 2) Aurora 3) Bell & Gossett 4) Gould 5) Peerless 6) Weinman 7) Grundfos b. Fuel Oil 1) IMO 2) Viking 3) Simplex 46. Radiant Heating Systems Unit shall be supplied with a wall thermostat and a manually operated on off switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ceiling 1) Rittling 2) Runtal b. Floor 1) Aero Tech 2) Airtex 3) Aztec 4) Uponor 47. Refrigerant Monitoring Systems Relay outputs for alarms and control shall be provided to connect to BMS. The unit shall also be provided with visual and audible alarms at the panel. Monitoring system shall have multi point capabilities. Panels shall have sensor components mounted within a waterproof enclosure. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mine Safety Appliances Company (MSA) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 434 2024 48. Sound Traps Sound traps shall only be installed if required per code for a maximum NC level of a room. Approved Manufacturers: a. I.A.C. (Industrial Acoustics Co.) b. Dynasonics c. Vibro Acoustics d. Price 49. Steam Traps See also Orifice steam traps Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Sarco 50. Steam Piping a. All steam traps shall be steamgard venturi orifice type wherever possible. The design engineer shall review each trap with the manufacturer to confirm if orifice type traps can be used. b. Steam traps shall be provided at all low points, end of mains, riser heals and at equipment connections. Base of drip legs to be provided with separate blowdown valves. c. Ensure all components of the details are installed (unions, shutoff valve, check valve, etc.) d. All piping from coils shall be pitched to the inlet of the condensate pump (no trapped piping). e. Drip legs shall be provided periodically for long runs of pipe at intervals between 100 to 125 feet. f. Drip legs shall be no less than half the size of the pipe it serves. g. Blow off valves to be provided at all drip legs and at the base of all risers. h. Flash tank trap shall be located 6 inches above the water level of the tank. Flash tanks to be provided with F&T trap. i. Test t shall be provided on all condensate piping downstream of steam trap and upstream of condensate shut off / check valve. j. Warmup bypass shall be provided for all steam valves 6 inches and larger. k. High pressure steam shutoff valves at the incoming service to each building shall be provided with two shutoff valves for safety purposes. l. All steam piping shall be insulated. m. Condensate pumps and flash tanks shall be vented to atmosphere. n. Condensate piping exposed to the outdoors shall be heat traced. o. Outdoor steam and condensate piping shall have two layers of insulation. p. High pressure steam shutoff valves shall be high performance OS&Y valves (not butterfly valves). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 435 2024 q. Prior to startup A/E team and construction team shall review NYULH Steam Insulation Quality Control Checklist obtain checklist from Facilities Management. 51. Strainers Strainers installed on horizontal steam piping shall not be installed in the vertical direction (facing towards ground). Steam strainers shall be installed to be in line with the horizontal piping such that when looking at the pipe and strainer, the clean out shall be facing directly towards you. Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Fabrotech b. Hoffman c. McAlear Mfg. Co. d. Metraflex e. Mueller f. Sarco g. Titan h. Yarway 52. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality. In all MERs, pipe insulation and conduits shall have colored PVC jacketing per the colors below. Colored PVC jacketing shall be installed on all piping 2” and above. Approved PVC Jacketing Manufacturers: a. Johns Manville b. Proto c. Speedline d. P.I.C. Plastics Chilled Water PrimaryLight Cyan Chilled Water SecondaryLight Cyan CompressorsLight Gray Condenser WaterYellow Domestic Water ColdPea Green Domestic Water HotMedium Gray ElectricalBlue FansDark Green GlycolOff White NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 436 2024 RefrigerantWhite Reheat WaterMedium Green Sprinkler and StandpipeRed SteamMarigold Steam CondensateRed Orange Floor GuardDark Gray Hot Water HeatingYellow Valves and TrimBlack Waste LineDark Brown Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded as follows: Fire Quenching Liquids White on Red TEXT Toxic and Corrosive Fluids Black on Orange TEXT Flammable Fluids Black on Yellow TEXT Combustible Fluids White on Brown TEXT Potable, Cooling, Boiler Feed and other Water White on Green TEXT Compressed Air White on Blue TEXT Steam Black on Yellow TEXT Chilled Water White on Cyan TEXT Hot Water / Reheat Hot Water White on Red TEXT Condensate Black on Orange TEXT Fuel Oil White on Brown TEXT Duct Labels shall be installed every 20 feet and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 4 inches high. Outside Air White on Blue TEXT General Exhaust Black on White TEXT Toilet Exhaust Black on Orange TEXT Return Air Black on Yellow TEXT Supply Air White on Green TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 437 2024 Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 inch diameter or square, brass, aluminum or stainless steel. Lettering shall be viewable from a distance of 10 feet. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. 53. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) Refer to the Miscellaneous subsection within the Architectural section for all engineering requirements. 54. Unit Heaters Unit shall be supplied with a unit mounted thermostat. Approved Manufacturers: a. Electric 1) Berko 2) Brasch 3) Chromalox 4) Indeeco 5) Dayton b. Steam/Water 1) Modine 2) Rittling 3) Sterling 55. Valves Dielectric nipples shall be installed between all dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. For Manhattan Main Campus: All campus primary chilled water valves to be 300lb rated. Secondary chilled water valves shall be designed based upon their designed system pressure. 2” and above Primary CHW service and steam service shall all be full bore stainless steel ball valves. PCHW service valves up to and including 2” shall be brass/bronze full bore ball valves. All system pressures shall be specified on design drawings. For services other than PCHW in the Manhattan main campus, steam service and all other sites other than Manhattan main campus; ball valves (2 ½” maximum) must be used for manual isolation on all chilled water, secondary water, reheat water and radiation water systems. Butterfly valves are to be used on larger piping (3” and above). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 438 2024 All valves and piping systems shall be designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves 3” and larger shall be pressure checked and bench tested at the factory. Factory shall provide a certified ANSI pressure report based on testing. Testing shall show that valve can hold rated pressure based on atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. Any valve that is above 7 feet shall be provided with a chain wheel for manipulation of valve from the floor. All high pressure steam isolation valves shall have manual warmup valves for startup. High Pressure steam valves shall be high performance OS&Y gate valves butterfly valves are not allowed. Valves shall be rated to 500 degrees F. Isolation valves shall be installed before and after control valves on chilled water and low pressure steam lines that service Air Handling Units . Isolation valves shall be same pressure class as control valve and vice versa. Approved Manufacturers: a. Balanced Check 1) Fabrotech 2) Hager 3) Mueller b. Balancing Valves (Water) 1) T & A 2) Armstrong 3) Autoflow 4) Flow Design 5) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 6) Bell and Gosset c. Ball Type 1) Apollo 2) Jamesbury 3) Milwaukee 4) Rockwell 5) Belimo (control) d. Butterfly 1) DeZurik 2) Flow Seal 3) Bray 4) Jamesbury 5) Keystone 6) W.K.M. 7) Belimo (control) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 439 2024 e. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each expansion tank, plate and frame heat exchanger or any pressurized water vessel, and as required by Code. Relief valve shall match maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment. Relief piping shall be sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to floor not floor drain. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Consolidated 3) Farris 4) Fulflo Specialties Co. 5) Kunkle 6) Lunkenheimer 7) Watts 8) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 9) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) f. Soft Seated 1) Bray 2) DeZurik 3) Keystone 4) Milwaukee g. Swing Check 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Powell 6) Rockwell Nordstrom 7) Stockham 8) Walworth h. Globe Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Nordstrom 6) Powell 7) Belimo (control) i. Solenoid Valves 1) ASCO NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 440 2024 j. Combination Valves Combination valves which have a ball valve as a balancing valve cannot be used unless stops are provided with locks. 1) Victaulic 2) NuTech k. Gate Valves 1) Crane 56. Variable Air Volume Variable Air Volume Boxes shall have pressure independent control. All VAVs shall have a local disconnect switch. All VAVs shall be marked with individual equipment ID’s. This shall be specified on design drawings as well. Design drawings equipment schedule for VAVs shall be specific and general based on size. Supply boxes with reheat coils shall have an access door upstream and downstream of the coil for cleaning purposes. Supply boxes without reheat coils shall have an access door for the damper. Exhaust boxes shall have an access door upstream of the cross flow sensors for cleaning purposes or be supplied with a removable velocity wing sensor. There shall be a maximum of 4 rooms per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the