Hickey, J.C.Source:Hospitals. 52(22): 128 130, 132,November 16, 1978.Abstract: Using findings from the MinnesotaSenior Study, researchers examine thetheoretical and methodological difficulties ofdefining, coding, and analyzing data on oldervolunteers and present a conceptual model fordefining and categorizing forms of voluntaryservice. Conducted during 1988 to 1989 by theWilder Research Center, the Minnesota SeniorStudy consisted of a telephone survey of arepresentative statewide sample ofapproximately1 ,500 noninstitutionalizedMinnesotans over age 59 years. Conducted togather data on how the elderly contribute tosociety and to assess their needs, the surveyquestionnaire addressed (1) demographicAbstract:Health education programs acrossthe country have benefited from elderly personsacting as volunteer health educators orcounselors. Working with existing organizationsand institutions, the Clark Foundation hasinvested $10 million of its own and $30 millionreceived from external funding sources tofinance efforts to recruit and train older peopleto meet community needs. With the assistanceof the Hospital Research and Educational Trust,an affiliate of the American HospitalAssociation, the foundation helped establish3 year demonstration projects in 1977 that used300 elderly volunteers in 7 hospitals. Thevolunteers have assisted programs designed to90Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsprovide comprehensive discharge planning andfollow up support, counseling and grouptherapy, public relations, health care needsassessments, planning services, educationalservices, and data collection and analysisservices. Health education centers, screeningservices, telephone counseling, andpararesearch services have been established.Addresses for information on health careprojects for older volunteers are listed.(HE7900412)128Psychosocial Differences Between ElderlyVolunteers and Non Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hunter, K.I.; Linn, M.W.Source:International Journal of Aging andHuman Development. 12(3):205 213, 1980 1981.Abstract:Researchers examined thedifferences between elderly persons whovolunteer and those who do not participate insuch activities. The sample included 53volunteers and 49 nonvolunteers over age 65years; all participants were retired from paidwork. The volunteers offered their services atthe Veterans Administration Hospital (VAH) inMiami, Florida, on a regular, assigned basis.Researchers interviewed all volunteers duringworking hours. Nonvolunteers wereinterviewed individually for approximately1 .5 hours in private apartments within a seniorcitizen's housing complex, a senior day center,and in various outpatient clinics of the VAH andUniversity of Miami affiliated hospitals. Datacollected included background anddemographics and dimensions of psychosocialadjustment. Background and demographic dataincluded (1) marital status, (2) age, (3) numberof years in school or professional training,(4) household composition, (5) parentalbirthplace, (6) alcohol consumption, (7)smoking behavior, (8) stressful life events,(9) medication, (10) surgical history, (11)sensory motor function, (12) ambulation, (13)ability to perform various daily activities, and(14) experience with pain. The dimensions ofpsychosocial adjustment included (1) locus ofcontrol; (2) symptomology; (3) anxiety,depression, and somatization factors; (4) lifesatisfaction; (5) self esteem; and (6) will to live.The results indicated there were no significantdifferences between the volunteer andnonvolunteer groups in (1) sex; (2) age;(3) number of years of school or professionaltraining; (4) degree of religious feeling; (5) diet;(6) social class; (7) household composition;(8) number of surgical operations; (9) amountof pain typically experienced; (10) level ofalcohol consumption; (11) smoking behavior;(12) ability to function in activities of dailyliving; (13) incidence of stressful life events; or(14) unusual marital, financial, or legalproblems. Compared with nonvolunteers, theelderly volunteers were significantly moresatisfied with life; had a stronger will to live;and reported fewer somatic, anxious, anddepressive symptoms. Analyses and results donot conclude a cause and effect process, yetdocumentation suggests that many of thoseengaged in volunteer activities feel that suchwork has changed their lives for the better.Researchers suggest a study be conducted toinvestigate if a program of volunteer activitiesinitiated for those elderly who have symptomsof depression, anxiety, or general dissatisfactionwith life would in fact change their state ofmind in any significant way.3 tables,20 references. (HE9700342)91Issues of Aging129Recruitment and Orientation of OlderVolunteers in Extended Care.Form:Journal article.Authors:Davidhizar, R.; Bowen, M.Source:Nursing Management.26(12):42, 44,December 1995.Abstract:Educators discuss ways to increasevolunteerism among older persons. Comparedwith younger persons and staff, older personsoften have more time to listen and to givepatients and residents personal attention. Themost effective way to recruit volunteers isthrough word of mouth, solicitation by personalcontacts, suggestions of present volunteers, andpersonal invitations. Suggestions and personalinvitations by present volunteers offer theadditional advantage of modeling. Recruitmentis more likely if volunteer times are scheduledto meet older persons' needs. Older personswho have volunteered previously are morelikely to volunteer again and thus are easier torecruit than are new volunteers.Carefulselection can result in volunteers who are morelikely to be active, committed, and loyal.Careful matching of volunteers to programs hasbeen found to promote retention. An effectiveorientation program for older volunteers muststress that (1) all information about patientsmust be kept confidential; (2) once volunteers'time has been scheduled, they must notify theagency if the commitment cannot be kept; (3)the volunteer may not offer opinions or adviceon medical problems to patients; (4) thevolunteer assists patients or residents inindependent living; and (5) the volunteer shouldnot become personally involved with patientsand residents. The program should (1) providevolunteers with tips on effective communicationtechniques; (2) emphasize that doing littlethings for patients can be highly significant(e.g., letters, cards, walking with a patient forexercise, and chatting can be important topatients' happiness); (3) provide volunteers withinformation on patients' requirements (e.g., theneed to repeat things several times for patientswith memory or orientation problems); (4)mention the rewards for volunteerism (e.g., howother volunteers have been appreciated bypatients); and (5) discuss where the volunteershould report and to whom.11 references.(HE9700066)92School Health130Activity and Similarity in Safer SexWorkshops Led by Peer Educators.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reeder, G.D.; Pryor, J.B.; Harsh, L.Source: AIDS Education and Prevention.9(Supplement A):77 89, February 1997.Abstract:Researchers examined theeffectiveness of peer led safer sex workshopsthat were designed to encourage condom useamong sexually active college students. Theevaluation focused on two variables:theamount of audience involvement in workshopactivities, and the similarity of the peereducators to their audiences.Participants wererecruited from a general education courseoffered by the Psychology Department atIllinois State University (ISU). The studentswere predominantly white females, with amedian age of 18 years. The sample consistedof 171 students who were randomly assigned toone of four safer sex workshops or to a controlgroup. Workshop formats were activity basedwith either similar or dissimilar peer leaders, orinformation based with either similar ordissimilar peer leaders. All students completeda questionnaire before and immediately afterthe workshop and again a month later. Theactivity and information workshops presentedthe same content in the same order, butparticipants in the activity workshopscompleted a series of small group exercises;those in the information workshops played arelatively passive role. Peer leaders withsimilar beliefs as their audiences identifiedthemselves as members of the ISU PeerEducation Program and described personalviews of premarital sex that were thought to betypical of ISU students. Those with dissimilarbeliefs said that they were from IllinoisWesleyan University and stated that theirpersonal religious beliefs were opposed topremarital sex. The dependent measuresincluded perceived similarity to the peer leader,attitudes toward the workshop, knowledge ofsexually transmitted diseases and condom use,self reported condom use (for current partners)or intention to use condoms with new partners,self efficacy, response efficacy, and perceptionsof social norms.Results indicated that theactivity format was more effective than theinformation format in encouraging condom useduring the month following the workshop.Inaddition, the similarity of the peer leadersinfluenced behavioral intentions to use acondom with new partners. The researchersconcluded that the effectiveness of peereducation may be enhanced by includingactivities and by using peer leaders who aresimilar to the target audience.3 tables,26 references. (HE9700783)131Communication Skills Training forParaprofessional Helpers.Form:Journal article.Author: Avery, A.W.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.6(6):583 591, December 1978.Abstract:Investigators constructed andevaluated a communication skills trainingprogram for paraprofessional helpers. The 35participants included 34 undergraduate studentsand1 graduate student who had been selected,based on grade point average and term standing,to receive training as residence hall counselorsat the Pennsylvania State University. The first20 candidates, including1 1 males and 9females, received training for immediateopenings (the experimental group), while the93School Healthother 15 candidates, including11 males and 4females, were to be trained at a later time (thecontrol group).Investigators selected thedimension of empathy as the dependent variablebecause of its significance as an essentialcondition in the helping relationship. Theyselected the Carkhuff Empathy Scale as themeasure of the dependent variable. Theexperimental and control groups had nosignificant differences in age, initial level ofempathy (based on pretest data), and amountsof prior helping experience (based on the initialcounselor application). As a pretest,investigators gave members of both theexperimental and control groups theopportunity to help a person in a 15 minuteaudiotaped helping interview at the outset of thestudy. The individuals presenting problems tothe participants in the interview wereconfederates who were supervisory residencestaff personnel with extensive experience inrole playing student problems. Aftercompleting the pretest, the experimental groupreceived 20 hours of training; the control groupreceived no training at this time. Following thetraining, as a posttest, members of both groupscounseled a person similarly to the pretest.Independent judges rated the pretest andposttest audiotapes. The results indicated thatthe trained participants demonstratedsignificantly higher levels of empathy than didthe untrained participants and that theymaintained their level of empathy after6 months.1 table, 13 references. (HE9700331)132Developing Capacities of Youth as LayHealth Advisors: A Case Study With HighSchool Students.Form:Journal article.Authors:Berkley Patton, J.; Fawcett, S.B.;Paine Andrews, A.; Johns, L.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4) :48 1 494, August 1997.Abstract: The Peer Helping Program (PHP) isa youth lay health advisor (YLHA) programdesigned to increase high school students'ability to provide emotional and social supportto their peers. The PHP was implemented in alarge high school (grades 10 through 12) in amidwestern city. The student population waspredominantly white and was experiencing avariety of problems, including a lack ofextracurricular capacity, overcrowding, andhigh levels of risky behaviors. The PHP wasdeveloped as a collaborative partnership amongthe students, school staff, representatives fromlocal mental health and prevention agencies,university students, and other members of thecommunity. The PHP established acomprehensive program development plan,identified funding sources, and secured anevaluation team. The primary program goalswere to (1) increase the number of studentsqualified to provide support and assistance totheir peers, (2) provide effective training toequip students with peer helping skills, (3) useYLHA's to assist peers in problem solving andto promote a supportive school environment,and (4) refer students to local counselingservices for critical situations. The student bodywas surveyed to identify those peers to whomstudents believed they would go for help andthe problems for which they would seek help.All prospective YLHA students attended aninitial overnight training retreat, followed bymonthly training sessions on specific problem94School Healthareas. A total of 24 YLHA's were trained (19girls, 5 boys).Several strategies were used topromote the PHP, including personal contactwith students, morning announcements on theintercom system, posters, flyers, and coveragein the school and local city newspapers. Arapid formative evaluation was conducted toassess the YLHAs' satisfaction with the trainingretreat, measure changes in peer helping skillsafter training, monitor YLHA helping contacts,and obtain YLHA's perspectives about theprogram's accomplishments, challenges, andfuture. Future PHP plans included (1) loweringthe social stigma of seeking counseling fromthe PHP through advertising and advocacy; (2)creating a more comfortable, accessibleenvironment for the program; (3) learning moreabout specific problems and how to deal withthem; and (4) increasing the involvement ofschool administrators in the program.3 tables,39 references. (SA9700921)133Evaluation of Prototype School Based PeerCounseling Program.Form:Journal article.Authors: Kim, S.; McLeod, J.H.; Rader, D.;Johnston, G.Source:Journal of Drug Education.22(1):37 53, 1992.Abstract:Researchers report outcomeevaluation results of a1 year prototype peercounseling program at a North Carolina highschool. The evaluation measured (1) the peercounseling program in terms of programcontent as evaluated by the trainees, (2)instructor quality as perceived by the trainees,(3) several instrumental objectives deducedfrom the peer counselor training program, and(4) the degree to which the program reachedother students at the high school.Schooladministrators and faculty recommendedpotential counselor candidates; the schoolcounselor coordinated and supervised theprogram. The peer counseling studentvolunteers received training composed of (1)video sessions, (2) processing sessions (adiscussion period in which participants workthrough problem situations by participating ingroup discussions and skits), and (3) a 2 dayoutdoor camp with activities designed topromote trust among the peer counselors and toinstill the concept of teamwork. The mostcommon student problem areas encountered bythe peer counselors included conflict with boy/girlfriends, depression, and parent/familyconflict. Using the Peer Counseling ActivitiesLog process evaluation instrument, peercounselors logged each counseling situation.Researchers used the Peer Training EvaluationInstrument, a completely anonymous and self administered questionnaire, to evaluate theprogram. The instrument contained 5 1 Likert type scale items measuring the instrumentalobjectives of the peer counseling program andprobing the program participants' reaction tothe peer counseling program and its instructor.For the outcome evaluation, researcherscompared students' overall reaction to programcontent and to the instructor with correspondingstudent evaluations of regular school work andregular school teachers.In the absence of acontrol group, researchers determined theprogram's treatment effect in terms ofindividual growth curve models. The multipleevaluations indicated that a significantly largerproportion of students in the peer counselinggroup had more favorable attitudes toward theprogram content than toward regular schoolcurriculum content. A significantly largerproportion of students in the peer counselingprogram reported more favorable attitudestoward peer counseling instructors than towardregular schoolteachers. The peer counselingprogram improved trainee self esteem andadvanced social values between pretesting and95School Healthposttesting, but did not generate significantattitudinal improvement in basic social values,student teacher relationship, student motivationlevel, and their attitude on school value.6 tables, 33 references. (HE9201424)134How Peer Education Changed PeerSexuality Educators' Self Esteem, PersonalDevelopment, and Sexual Behavior.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sawyer, R.G.; Pinciaro, P.;Bedwell, D.Source:Journal of American College Health.45(5):21 1 217, March 1997.Abstract: Researchers evaluated changes inself esteem, personal development, and sexualbehavior among college peer educators as aresult of their participation in peer sexualityeducation programs. The study populationconsisted of 119 previously untrained collegestudents who registered to participate in theirrespective institutions' peer education programsfor a full academic year. Researchers examinedsexuality peer education programs from 10universities throughout the United States. Eachuniversity had a total enrollment of more than10,000 students and had had established peereducation programs for more than 3 years.Researchers collected data from the peereducators three times during the course of anacademic year.Pretest data were collected onthe first day of peer training before any actualtraining had commenced. The first posttest wasadministered just before the winter break andthe final posttest at the end of the academicyear. The pretest survey contained 12demographic items, the Rosenberg Self EsteemScale, the Personal Development Inventory, andthe Safe Sex Behavior Questionnaire. The firstand second posttests included the threequestionnaires plus several open ended itemsrelated to the peer educators' experience. All ofthe peer educators completed the pretest, 95completed the first posttest, and 65 completedthe final posttest.In their analyses, researchersincluded only the 65 students who completedthe pretest and both posttests. The peereducators were predominantly female andranged in age from 18 to 31 years.Resultsshowed positive changes in the peer educators'self esteem, personal development, and safe sexbehavior, although the increases were notstatistically significant. The researchersrecommended conducting additional researchwith a larger population of peer educators.They also recommended that efforts to justifypeer education programs focus more on the peereducators rather than solely on evaluations ofknowledge gains in program recipients.2 tables, 18 references. (HE9700782)135Peer Counselor Training Program:Rationale, Curriculum, and Evaluation:An Initial Report.Form:Journal article.Authors:Dorosin, D.; D'Andrea, V.; Jacks, R.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association. 25 (4):259 262, April 1977.Abstract:Educators discuss their experienceswith peer counseling training among studentgroups. Because many student group membersexpressed an interest in peer counselingtraining, the educators evaluated andconceptualized several themes of motivation bythe students to characterize their interest intraining to be peer counselors.It becameapparent through discussion that the studentgroups were motivated by issues such asheightening access to peer communication forsolitary individuals, emotional support, andincreasing and supporting self definition.Based on the responses received by the96School Healtheducators, they developed a peer training coursebased on the microcounseling technique. Theemphasis of the course was on skill learningthrough the use of videotape for both contentand for immediate feedback of role playing.Evaluation of the training course included threemajor components:(1) ongoing evaluation byboth the students and trainers of the sessions,(2) systematic evaluation of the effect of thetraining on learned skills, and (3) evaluation ofthe actual counseling by the people who havetaken the training.1 figure, 5 references.(HE9700322)136Peer Nutrition Education Programs onCollege Campuses.Form:Journal article.Authors: Horacek, T.M.; Betts, N.M.; Rutar, J.Source:Journal of Nutrition Education.28(6):353 357, November December 1996.Abstract:Researchers determined theprevalence and scope of peer nutritioneducation programs on college campuses andmade recommendations for initiating aprogram.Surveys, sent to all 234 directors forDidactic Programs in Dietetics, included itemsregarding (1) the existence of peer nutritioneducation programs; (2) how long suchprograms had been in place; (3) how theprograms were coordinated; (4) peer educationdemographics and training; (5) programfunding; (6) services provided; (7) programevaluation; and (8) other areas of interest, suchas problems experienced and advice for startinga program. Researchers developed the surveybased upon existing literature and piloted itwith three nutrition science faculty members.Of the 115 schools that returned surveys, 26reported they had peer nutrition educationprograms. Most of the programs (92 percent)used dietetic students as educators, with thenumber of peer educators participating in theprograms ranging from1 to 50, with an averageof 14 per program. Twenty two of the programs(86 percent) reported that they providedadditional training for their peer nutritioneducators. Programs were most often fundedby department funds or student fees but a fewwere funded through grants. For the majorityof the programs, the educators' time wasdevoted first to counseling and assessment, thento outreach. Most programs reported offering awide variety of outreach presentations for theirstudent population. Respondents reported anumber of public relations and programevaluation strategies as well as problems theirprograms had encountered and advice onstarting a program. The researchers concludedwith a number of suggestions on beginning apeer nutrition education program. 2 tables,2 1 references . (HE970046 1)137Peer Participation in Project Northland: ACommunity Wide Alcohol Use PreventionProject.Form:Journal article.Authors: Komro, K.A.; Perry, C.L.; Veblen Mortenson, S.; Williams, C.L.Source:Journal of School Health.64(8):318 322, October 1994.Abstract: Researchers describe the rationale,conceptual framework, and programcomponents of Project Northland, a peerparticipation program for prevention of alcoholuse among young adolescents. Program goalsincluded (1) providing peer leadership andsocial support for nonuse of alcohol, (2)creating opportunities for behavioralalternatives to alcohol use, and (3) creating anorm of nonuse among young adolescents.Researchers implemented the program withseventh grade students in 20 northeastern97School HealthMinnesota schools. Community coordinatorsrecruited 33 adult volunteers to facilitate peergroups in the schools. At an initial ProjectNorthland peer leadership group meeting,students from each school selected two to fiverepresentatives to attend one of two leadershiptraining sessions.Researchers designed thetraining sessions to increase peer leaders'involvement in prevention efforts, createexcitement about being part of the program, andempower students to plan, participate, andpromote alcohol free activities. Peer leaderschose to call the program TEENS (The Excitingand Entertaining Northland Students). Duringthe first year of the program, peer leadersorganized 62 supervised, alcohol free activities.Most peer leadership groups met during theschool day, during lunch period or study hall.Most TEENS members (7 1 percent) believedthat their classmates liked the activities, and 86percent thought that their classmates had fun atthe activities. The peer leaders planned avariety of activities, including an open gym andmovies held at the school on weekend nights,dances, ski trips, roller skating, bowling, tubing,and beach parties. Findings suggest the needand indicate support for peer planned, alcohol free activities.1 figure, 23 references.(SA9500321)138Personal and Situational Determinants ofVolunteer Recruitment for a CampusHotline Program.Form:Journal article.Author: Turner, J.R.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association.21(4):353 357, April 1973.Abstract: The author evaluated some of thepersonal and program variables that mightidentify and increase the number of dependablestudent volunteers working for student peerhotlines. The study sample included 169undergraduates (69 males and 100 females)who were recruited as student volunteers for apeer hotline. These individuals were dividedinto three different groups according to theirresponses to recruitment after an initial meetingabout the volunteer program:(1) Definitelyvolunteering, (2) definitely not volunteering,and (3) ambivalent about volunteering. Thevolunteer group, 28 males and 36 females, saidthat they wanted to participate in the programand attended a minimum of 2 meetings. Thenonvolunteers, 21 males and 20 females, statedduring the first meeting that they had nointention of participating further in the program.The potential volunteers, 20 males and 44females, said that they had intended to serve,but after learning about the time required, haddecided not to participate because of othercommitments. On an application form to theprogram, researchers asked students to describethemselves using the 300 item Adjective CheckList. They also used the Social Action Surveyto measure student attitudes toward theprogram's general concept of students helpingother students, and the Test of CounselorAttitudes which contained the following fivescales:(1) evaluative, (2) interpretive, (3)understanding, (4) supportive, and (5) probing.Results showed that volunteers as comparedwith nonvolunteers and potential volunteerswere more self controlled, tolerant, anddedicated to social improvement. The attitudeof the volunteers toward service recipients wasmore supportive. A consistent sex difference inthe volunteer group was that the malevolunteers were strongly oriented towardhelping others while female volunteers wantedto learn and achieve academically.Overall, thegroup of potential volunteers differed moremarkedly from volunteers than fromnonvolunteers. From the results of the study, itappears that recruiting literature encouragingstudents to volunteer should emphasize the dual98School Healthopportunity to help and learn simultaneously.3 tables, 13 references. (HE9700321)139Programmatic Prevention of AdolescentProblem Behaviors: The Role ofAutonomy, Relatedness, and VolunteerService in the Teen Outreach Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Allen, J.P.; Kuperminc, G.; Philliber,S.; Herre, K.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.22(5):617 638, 1994.Abstract:Researchers conducted a study inorder to identify factors explaining the differingrelative effectiveness of Teen Outreachprograms in reducing problem behaviors atdifferent sites. Specifically, they examinedwhether positive site outcomes would bepredicted by (1) the degree to which a site wasseen by students and facilitators as supportingstudents' developmental need for a sense ofautonomy and relatedness within the programand (2) the extent to which students believedthe volunteer community service that theyperformed encouraged them to learn new skills,to think about their life goals, and to influencethe nature of the work performed. From 1987to 1992, researchers evaluated 1,020 students at66 sites who participated in the Teen OutreachProgram and 1,013 comparison students. Studyparticipants filled out a brief self reportquestionnaire indicating their age, school gradelevel, race, household composition, and parents'education levels. Information was also gatheredon whether they had ever been pregnant or hadcaused a pregnancy, and whether they hadfailed any courses or been suspended during theschool year. The researchers assessed thevariations in the implementation of TeenOutreach at different sites by administeringquestionnaires to both participants andfacilitators during the final month of theprogram.Results show that middle school sitesthat promoted student autonomy andrelatedness with peers and site facilitatorsachieved significantly reduced problembehaviors. Although the program was equallysuccessful with students from a wide range ofsociodemographic backgrounds, links ofprogram factors to site level outcomes werefound for middle school but not high schoolsites. The researchers conclude that the successof an effective intervention to preventadolescent problem behaviors is linked both toits promotion of students' sense of autonomyand relatedness and to autonomy enhancingqualities of volunteer experiences provided toparticipants. 4 tables, 37 references.(SA9700001)140Reducing Health Risks Through PeerHealth Education: A Preliminary Report.Form:Journal Article.Authors:Nagelberg, D.B.; Hodge, J.M.;Ketzer, J.M.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association. 28(4):234 235, February1980.Abstract: The student health service ofBowling Green (Ohio) State University initiatedthe Health Risk Reduction Program to promotestudent health by increasing self awareness andpersonal responsibility for health. Thetraditional pre enrollment physical examinationwas replaced by a self reported medical healthinventory called the Database Acquisition forStudent Health. Data from the inventory wereanalyzed and students received a health riskindex outlining their health status. Peer healtheducators, selected from groups of upper classor graduate students, counseled the students.Faculty and staff members in the health,99School Healthnutrition, health and physical education,psychology, social work, and education fieldsselected the paraprofessional peer educators.The candidate educators attended a 10 weekcourse, during which a psychologist and aneducator instructed them in health contentareas, process skills, and practicum trainingtopics. The potential peer educators alsoviewed and evaluate videotaped interviewedwith students. Each educator interviewed fourto five freshmen each week. Approximately300 freshmen were interviewed each academicquarter. A survey of 108 freshmen who metwith a peer educator during 1979 and 100freshmen who received their inventory resultsthrough the mail indicated that student attitudestoward the educators were favorable and thatthe educators clarified students' perceptions ofinventory results. 7 references. (HE8 101097)141School Based Prevention of Teen AgePregnancy and School Dropout: ProcessEvaluation of the National Replication ofthe Teen Outreach Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Allen, J.P.; Philliber, S.; Hoggson, N.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.18(4):505 524, August 1990.Abstract:Researchers describe process oriented evaluation data from the Teen OutreachProgram, a preventive intervention that attemptsto prevent school dropout and teenagepregnancy. The program was designed toprovide meaningful volunteer serviceexperiences and classroom based discussionopportunities to young people at risk forsignificant behavioral problems (such asdropout and pregnancy). Researchers examinednaturally occurring variations in theimplementation of the program at 35 differentsites in 30 schools nationwide. Within eachsite, investigators assessed four types of factorspotentially relevant to program success:(1) student demographics (age, race, sex); (2)structural program factors (whether the programwas given during or after school and whetheror not it was offered for credit); (3) programintensity factors (number of hours spent inclassroom discussions and in volunteeractivities); and (4) curricular factors (use ofvarious parts of the Teen Outreach curriculum).Participants included 632 students from theprogram and 855 comparison students, rangingin age from1 1 to 19 and from grades 7 12.Study measures included self reportquestionnaires on demographic characteristicsand problem behaviors and collection ofinformation from Teen Outreach facilitators onprogram intensity, structure, and curriculum.Researchers assessed students at program entry(fall) and exit (spring).Results indicated thatTeen Outreach site staff were most successfulwhen they worked with older students andwhen the volunteer component was moreintensively implemented at a site. Work withyounger students was more successful when itcontained more intensive classroomcomponents.Students' sex and minority statusappeared unrelated to their success in theprogram.Results highlight the need to bedevelopmentally sensitive in targeting andevaluating prevention programs for differentage groups.3 tables, 32 references.(SA9400143)100School Health142Skin Cancer Prevention: A Peer EducationModel.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reding, D.J.; Fischer, V.;Gunderson, P.; Lappe, K.Source: Wisconsin Medical Journal.94(2):77 81, February 1995.Abstract:Researchers related the results of ademonstration project to deliver skin cancerprevention education to youth. The project wasconducted in the 1991 1992 school year as partof the Wisconsin Farmers' Cancer ControlProgram to improve access to cancer educationand screening for rural residents. AmericanCancer Society staff, school curriculumcommittees, and representatives of the FutureFarmers of America (FFA) contributed to theproject's plan. The FFA practices peereducation, whereby older students teachyounger children about agriculture. FFAmembers from six northern Wisconsin highschools carried out the project. They used theChildren's Guide to Sun Protection K 3,developed for students in grade three, as theintervention. The curriculum includedbackground information on the basic anatomyof the skin, skin cancer, the sun and the damageit causes, and methods of sun protection. At a1 day workshop, 40 FFA members receivedtraining on skin cancer and sun protection, onteaching skills, and on administering thesurveys. The intervention consisted of 10questions about sun protection. The studentsanswered preprogram, postprogram, and6 month follow up surveys, while controlgroups answered the identical survey but had nosun protection education session between thepreprogram and the postprogram surveys. Theresearchers compared the results of theexperimental groups with those of the controlgroups, using chi square tests and the Mann Whitney U test. The students could take home(1) activity sheets, (2) a skin cancer brochuredeveloped specifically for farmers, (3) aninformational skin cancer sheet, (4) a bookmarkwith sun protection guidelines, and (5) asunscreen sample. Seven third gradeclassrooms acted as controls.Overall, theintervention group had significantly improvedscores on the postsurvey compared with thecontrol group. The control groups participatedin the sun protection education after thepostsurvey, which made it difficult to interpretthe results of the 6 month follow up data. TheFFA facilitators completed presurveys,postsurvey s, and follow up surveys, showing animprovement in their knowledge and intendedbehavior. The findings demonstrate theeffectiveness of peer facilitators in educatingyounger students about skin cancer.2 tables,12 references. (CP9500302)143Teens Teach Skin Cancer Prevention.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reding, D.J.; Fischer, V.; Gunderson,P.; Lappe, K.; Anderson, H.; Calvert, G.Source:Journal of Rural Health.12(4, Supplement):265 272, 1996.Abstract:Researchers report on a programdesigned to deliver sun protection education toyouth, using members of the Future Farmers ofAmerica (FFA) as peer educators. They basedthe program on the hypothesis that a school based sun protection education programdelivered by youth facilitators would result inincreased sun protection knowledge amongyounger children.Facilitators of the programwere 217 teenaged educators from 39 FFAorganizations throughout Wisconsin who weretrained at a 1 day workshop involving (1)information on skin cancer and sun protection,(2) the introduction and practice of the sun101School Healthprotection curriculum, and (3) teaching skillstraining. The youth facilitators delivered apresentation on sun protection to 2,007 thirdgraders. Topics covered included backgroundinformation on (1) the anatomy of skin, (2) skincancer, (3) the sun, and (4) methods of sunprotection. The presentation emphasized theABC's of sun protection (Away, Block, Coverup, and Speak Out).Facilitators administered asurvey consisting of 10 questions to the thirdgraders before, at the conclusion of, and 6months after the presentation.Control schoolsincluded 57 facilitators and 669 third graderswho were surveyed in the same manner as theintervention groups, with no education sessionoffered.Students who responded correctly to aquestion on the postsurvey after respondingincorrectly on the presurvey were said to have