respectful of your budget and personal preferences. Interpretation and Translation Services For patients and families who need or prefer to communicate about their healthcare in a language other than English, we provide professional medical interpreters free of charge. We arrange for interpreters who can help you and your family during all phases of your care. We provide face-to-face interpreters, as well as interpreters via telephone and video. For your convenience, we have translated important medical forms and patient health education materials into several languages. Please ask your international coordinator or healthcare provider if these materials are available in your preferred language. Support During Your Visit , including guided meditation, acupuncture, massage, and reflexology, which can be accessed while in the hospital or as an outpatient. Spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for adults spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for children are available. Our chaplains are trained to counsel people of all faiths and are available to meet with you or your family at any time of day. They offer prayer and emotional support, and can perform religious services such as baptism, communion, and anointing of the sick. Religious items and specialty foods, including kosher snacks and halal meals, are available upon request. For children, we provide to help the experience seem less overwhelming. Our child life specialists art and music therapists help ease feelings of anxiety and help your child cope with medical treatment. To learn more about our services for international patients, please call Ask a Health Information Specialist Form Our librarians can provide answers to questions such as "What is diabetes?" or "Where can I learn more about heart disease?" Questions specific to your personal health such as "Why am I feeling sick?" or "What medications do I need?" should be discussed with a healthcare provider. Confirm Email Question Submit Question NYU Langone’s palliative care and supportive care teams offer symptom relief and emotional support as you recover after a hospital stay or receive care for a chronic condition. Resources are available through the following programs based at our hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and on Long Island. For programs based at 212-263-6202 Supportive Care for People with Cancer For cancer-specific care, please contact the . They provide cancer pain management and relief of common symptoms, including shortness of breath, nausea, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, , and stress related to cancer and its treatments. Our team provides personalized, goal-oriented care in conjunction with your oncologist and assists with cancer treatment decisions as appropriate. Please ask your treating oncologist for a referral or call 212-731-5857 Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care in Manhattan We also provide the following outpatient programs, which are based in Manhattan. Palliative Care for People with Kidney Disease Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Kidney Disease Support) Program provides palliative care for people living with . We address symptoms common to patients with kidney disease, such as pain, itching, insomnia, anxiety, and . We assist with planning for the future, dialysis decision-making, conservative management of kidney disease, and care coordination. Dr. Jennifer S. Scherer , who has expertise in palliative care and nephrology. For more information about Kidney CARES, please call 212-263-0705 jennifer.scherer@nyulangone.org Palliative Care for People with Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders , our supportive care physician, Dr. Yijie Xu , addresses common symptoms of , including depression, anxiety, and difficulty swallowing. She also works closely with your neurologist to clarify treatment goals and assist with planning for the future. Please speak with your neurologist at the Fresco Institute for a referral. Supportive Care for People with Heart, Lung, Liver, and Neurologic Diseases Our providers focus on improving quality of life for people with heart, lung, liver, and non-Parkinson’s neurological diseases, including , by treating symptoms such as shortness of breath, pain, fatigue, anxiety, and depression. We provide guidance in advance care planning and complex decision-making, and work with people being evaluated for organ transplant at the . For more information about our services, please contact Dr. Joseph Lowy Supportive Care for People with Dementia Supportive care for people with is available through the Pearl I. Barlow Center for Memory Evaluation and Treatment Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care on Long Island , we provide specialized outpatient programs for people with cancer or advanced disease affecting the heart, kidneys, and lungs. Our team—which includes board-certified physicians, nurse practitioners, social workers, and registered nurses—has advanced training in palliative medicine and collaborates with your primary physician and other specialists to understand your goals for care and treatment. Supportive Care for People with Heart Disease Our team provides care for people with heart conditions, including congestive heart failure . We help manage shortness of breath, pain, anxiety, fatigue, and other symptoms. Our team also provides support for you and your family, with care plans and community resources to optimize quality of life, and treatment priorities, including finding the right cardiac device Supportive Care for People with Kidney Disease We provide a personalized plan to help reduce the physical and emotional effects of advanced kidney disease, including depression, insomnia, itching, loss of appetite, nausea, numbness, shortness of breath, and tingling. Supportive kidney care may be helpful, whether or not dialysis is part of your treatment plan—our expert team can also assist with dialysis decision-making, care coordination, emotional support for you and your family, and advance care planning Supportive oncology care is designed for people receiving treatment for symptomatic cancers to maximize their quality of life. Our specialists provide relief from appetite loss, constipation, fatigue, insomnia, nausea, pain, shortness of breath, and weight loss. We collaborate with your oncologist to provide compassionate and goal-oriented care for you and your family at any stage of treatment. Supportive Care for People with Lung Disease We offer a tailored care plan for people with advanced lung disease, including or COPD, pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary hypertension, and . Our team consults with your pulmonologist to help treat anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, weight loss, and other symptoms. We also provide social and emotional support for you and your family throughout your treatment. In addition to talking with you and your family, chaplains are also available to perform various religious services on site at NYU Langone. These include baptism, communion, and the anointing of the sick. Rabbis are available for certain prayer services. Chaplains also counsel, support, and pray with families and patients at the time of death. Sacred Texts and Religious Items Sacred texts are available to all patients at NYU Langone. The Christian Bible, Jewish siddur, and Muslim Koran can be borrowed. Other religious items available upon request include Buddhist mala prayer beads, Catholic rosaries, Jewish Sabbath candles, and Muslim sajajid (prayer rugs). To request these items, please talk with your nurse or fill out our . You can also phone in a request using the following numbers: , please call Patient Relations at Specialty Foods If you have religious dietary needs, such as kosher or halal, please inform your nurse. We also have Bikur Cholim rooms, where kosher meals and snacks are available. The Bikur Cholim room at Tisch Hospital is located on the first floor behind the Meditation Room . At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the Bikur Cholim room on the fourth floor provides kosher snacks and Shabbos provisions. The Bikur Cholim room at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital is located on the 13th floor. At NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Shabbos provisions are available in the Bikur Cholim Room on the first floor, and the offsite Sabbath House, located in Mineola, can accommodate family members in special circumstances. For reservations at the Sabbath House, please call Jean Zebroski at 516-663-4875 Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital 212-263-5567 212-263-8525 Electroconvulsive Therapy Program Inpatient psychiatric care is available at NYU Langone’s to people who need immediate and intensive mental healthcare. All admissions to our inpatient psychiatric unit are voluntary, meaning patients sign themselves in. During your stay, you receive a thorough consultation from team of medical experts who specialize in psychiatric care. We identify your symptoms and develop an accurate diagnosis. Your personalized treatment plan can include medication, group therapy, and art, music, and recreation therapy . We also offer nutrition counseling, yoga, horticultural therapy, and spiritual and religious support . Neuropsychological testing and neuropsychiatric consultations are provided if your care team believes they are necessary. Our Psychiatric Expertise Every patient is assigned a personal treatment team that includes a psychiatrist, psychiatric nurse, social worker, art therapist, and recreation therapist. Our team has special expertise in treating people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders, such as , borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder schizophrenia Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is prescribed for people with severe mood disorders who may benefit from the treatment. Our nursing staff cares for people experiencing both medical and behavioral healthcare issues. This allows patients who are being treated at Tisch Hospital for another condition to continue receiving their needed medical care while they are in the inpatient psychiatric unit. The majority of our patients are admitted to inpatient psychiatric services after being treated in NYU Langone’s Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services on First Avenue in Manhattan. Admission to the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit Most people are admitted to our inpatient psychiatric unit after being treated in the . In some instances, we accept patients from outside hospitals. Patients must be age 18 or older. The average length of stay is seven to eight days. We accept insurance and assure confidentiality and privacy. For more information, please call If you or a loved one are experiencing a psychiatric emergency, please call 911 or visit the emergency care location closest to you. Our Doctors Our experts specialize in psychiatric care and treat people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders. Bem L. Atim Free Wi-Fi is available to patients and visitors. When permitted, patients are allowed to use cell phones and computers during their stay, but use of photography is prohibited. Palliative Care & Supportive Care for Adults Care Team The palliative care and supportive care team at NYU Langone includes doctors, nurse practitioners, chaplains, and social workers who are focused on providing the highest level of care to people who are experiencing a serious or life-limiting illness. Listed below are care team members for the following locations: Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital The palliative care and supportive care team at includes the following physicians: JL Joseph Lowy, MD Director of Palliative Care View Full Profile NR Nina J. Ricci, DO Associate Director of Palliative Care AG Annette A. Georgia, MD Palliative Care Physician YG Yolanda Guzman, MD OS Olivia Seecof, MD Palliative Care and Supportive Oncology Care Physician Megan E. Rau, MD, MPH Palliative Care and Geriatrics Physician JS Jennifer S. Scherer, MD Palliative Care and Nephrology Physician Renata Shabin, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC, ACHPN Nurse Practitioner Ms. Shabin is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training and board certification in palliative care. She completed both her undergraduate and graduate education at NYU. In high school, she worked as an emergency medical technician and ambulance driver, which sparked her interest in nursing and desire to develop relationships with her patients. As a nurse, she cares for people with complex conditions and those in the emergency department. She serves as a clinical instructor for graduate nursing students at NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Erin Barnes, MSN, RN, FNP-C, ACHPN Ms. Barnes, a nurse practitioner, joined the palliative care team in 2019 after working with patients who have genetic and acquired autonomic nervous system disorders. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked as a critical care nurse for seven years. She received her doctor of nursing practice degree from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. AS Amy Sevick, MS, RN, FNP-BC, CHPN Ms. Sevick is a board-certified family primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training in palliative care. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked for many years as a registered nurse in inpatient psychiatry, critical care, and hospice. Christopher Oates Social Work Manager Mr. Oates is a licensed clinical social worker and a leadership fellow at the Zelda Foster Studies Program in Palliative and End-of-Life Care at NYU Silver School of Social Work. He received his master’s degree in social work from Columbia University and master of public administration degree from Baruch College. He has served on the executive boards of the New York City Chapter of the Society for Social Work Leadership in Healthcare, the Helen Rehr Center for Social Work Practice, and the East Side Council of the Aging. BR Bena Reiter, LCSW Ms. Reiter holds a master’s degree from the Wurzweiler School of Social Work at Yeshiva University. She joined NYU Langone in 2010 and has been a licensed clinical social worker with the Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital teams since 2014. Elizabeth Kitamura, BCC Staff Chaplain Chaplain Kitamura is a board-certified chaplain with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in theology from Catholic Theological Union in Chicago and is a master’s degree candidate at NYU School of Global Public Health. Before joining NYU Langone, she completed her clinical training at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Illinois, and Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, and was also a research fellow at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. The following physicians provide supportive care to patients at : AK Arum Kim, MD Director of the Supportive Oncology Program Akash Shah, MD Palliative and Supportive Oncology Care Physician NB Nancy E. Bael, MD LP Lauren A. Parker, MD Medical Director of Geriatrics and Palliative Care Elena A. Kuzin-Palmeri, MSN, ANP, GNP-BC, AOCN, ACHPN Palliative Care Nurse Ms. Kuzin-Palmeri is a board-certified gerontology, advanced oncology, and advanced hospice and palliative care nurse with more than 30 years of experience. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn in 2013, she worked in a variety of settings, including palliative care and home-based care at the Brooklyn VA Medical Center, radiation oncology care at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, pain medicine and palliative care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Metropolitan, and several home-based care programs for homebound older adults. KR Kate Rex, LCSW Ms. Rex holds a master’s degree in social work from Lehman College and completed the James J. Peters VA Medical Center Geriatric Research Fellowship in palliative care and social work. Ms. Rex has more than 13 years of hospital social work experience in Brooklyn and has been with NYU Langone since 2016. RT Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC Chaplain Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC, leads the spiritual care department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and is staff chaplain for the palliative care team and preceptor for student chaplains. She is a board-certified chaplain with Neshama: Association of Jewish Chaplains and an ordained Conservative rabbi. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Jewish Theological Seminary and a master’s degree in education from Teachers College, Columbia University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Tav worked at NYC Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst as director of their first multifaith spiritual care department and palliative care staff chaplain, and she was a palliative care chaplain and end-of-life care specialist at the Manhattan, NY Vet Center. The Palliative Care and Supportive Care Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is led by the following physicians: Jeffrey T. Berger, MD AH Amanda J. Hafeez, MD PP Priya A. Pinto, MD DS Dustin E. Suanino, MD LA Latifat Adeyemi, MS, ANP-BC Adult Nurse Practitioner Ms. Adeyemi is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner. She completed subspecialty training in palliative care and received a master’s degree from NYU. Before joining the palliative care team, she worked for more than seven years as an oncology–hematology registered nurse. Kathleen DiGangi Condon, DNP, MA, ANP-BC Dr. DiGangi Condon is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner with a doctorate of nursing practice from Stony Brook University. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Columbia University School of Nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from the College of the Holy Cross and a master’s degree from the University of Notre Dame. CK Catherine A. Kobza, MS, AGACNP-BC, CCRN Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Kobza is a board-certified adult gerontology acute care nurse practitioner. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees and postgraduate certificate in adult oncology from the University of Pennsylvania. Ms. Kobza is certified in critical care nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from Bucknell University, and completed an advanced practice provider fellowship in critical care medicine at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided care and support for patients and families with various acute and chronic illnesses as a medical–surgical telemetry and cardiothoracic intensive care unit registered nurse. KS Kathryn Stein, MS, AGPCNP-BC Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Stein is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. She received her master’s degree and subspecialty training in palliative care from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Ms. Stein also holds bachelor’s degrees from Johns Hopkins University and NYU. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided support and care for patients and their families in a variety of settings, including inpatient hematology–oncology, intensive care, and a multiple sclerosis outpatient practice. DR Dana Ribeiro Miller, M. Div., LCSW, APHSW-C Social Worker Ms. Ribeiro Miller is a licensed clinical social worker. She holds a master’s degree in social work from Columbia University School of Social Work, where she was a recipient of the Dr. Maurice V. Russell Fellowship for Medical Social Work. She also received a master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary, and a bachelor’s of science degree from Rutgers University. Ms. Ribeiro Miller completed her subspecialty palliative care training at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, and is a clinical instructor of medicine and frequent lecturer at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. She has published in the bioethics and social work literature and lectures regionally and nationally for organizations such as the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization and the Social Work Hospice and Palliative Care Network. She is also a member of the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Medical Ethics Workgroup and the Spiritual Care Services Advisory Committee. Nicole Rossi, LCSW, APHSW-C Ms. Rossi holds a master’s degree from Fordham University School of Social Work and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Rhode Island. She has experience in hospice and oncology social work in a variety of settings, including hospitals, home care, outpatient clinics, and long-term care facilities. Ms. Rossi completed a postgraduate certificate program in palliative and end-of-life care through Smith College School for Social Work. Spaces for prayer, meditation, or contemplation are available at several NYU Langone locations. All spaces are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and are available to patients and guests. Contemplative Space at Tisch Hospital The Meditation Room at NYU Langone’s , located on the blue pathway beyond the Tisch elevators, offers a space for prayer and quiet reflection. Meditation Mondays A free meditation group meets on Mondays from 12:00PM to 12:30PM. Meditation Mondays are open to all, regardless of religious background or meditation experience. Chaplains and integrative health specialists work collaboratively to provide this service. Instruction is given, followed by silent or guided practice. For more information, please contact us at Contemplative Spaces at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The chapel at is open to people of all faiths who seek a quiet place for prayer and reflection. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn also has prayer rooms for people of Muslim and Jewish faith. Contemplative Space at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island The Serenity Chapel at is located across from the gift shop and is available to people of all faiths. It is open daily from 5:30AM until 10:00PM for personal prayer, meditation, and observing silence. The spiritual care team leads weekly services in the Serenity Chapel, and we also offer bereavement support groups and educational lectures At NYU Langone, our commitment to teaching future healthcare professionals extends to spiritual care and our chaplain internship programs. Clinical pastoral education (CPE) brings theological students and seminarian ministers of all faiths together in a multicultural environment. NYU Langone’s CPE programs are accredited by the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE) and we offer full- and part-time options. After a thorough orientation, interns are assigned to clinical units to provide spiritual care to patients, families, and staff. Interns are supervised by educators and supported by preceptors and mentors. Chaplain interns learn how to listen to and engage with patients and their loved ones, build rapport, and respond to verbal and nonverbal communication. Students develop a deeper understanding of themselves, others, and the ministry. Chaplain Internship Program at NYU Langone Our chaplain internship program is open to ministers of all faiths, theological students, qualified laypersons, and any professionals who are engaged in related work or studies. Students are required to spend 400 supervised hours of ministry practice, including 300 hours on clinical work plus 100 hours in the classroom and on individual education. Our part-time units, held in spring and fall, both require 18 hours per week of clinical visits, done on a flexible schedule. The spring extended unit lasts from early January to early May, and the fall extended units goes from late August through late December. The full-time summer unit, which requires 40 hours a week, lasts 11 weeks, beginning in late May and ending in early August. Below is our internship schedule for 2025 and beyond. Spring 2025 Extended Unit January 6 to May 9 (18 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–2:30PM Clinical Work: 18 hours per week, on a flexible schedule Summer 2025 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 27 to August 8 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesday 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM Clinical Work: Monday through Friday, 9:00AM–5:00PM, when CPE class is not being held Fall 2025 Extended Unit August 19 to December 19 (18 weeks) Spring 2026 Extended Unit January 5 to May 8 (18 weeks) Summer 2026 Full-Time Intensive Unit May 26 to August 7 (11 weeks) CPE Class: Tuesdays 8:00AM–4:00PM and Thursday 8:00AM–12:00PM CPE classes typically take place at 550 First Avenue, Manhattan. CPE clinical placements are at the following locations: , 550 First Avenue, Manhattan , 434 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 430 East 34th Street, Manhattan , 301 East 17th Street, Manhattan , 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY Requirements and Application Prospective students must have earned a bachelor’s degree or equivalent, and one or more years of theological or religious training is preferred. Applicants must undergo a background check and health clearance. We believe students from a variety of backgrounds and experiences help inspire excellence and address inequities in healthcare in our patient communities. We promote respect, tolerance, and expanding the diversity of our community. Students of underrepresented backgrounds, including but not limited to those who identify as Black or African American, Latinx, Native American, Native Pacific Islander, or Native Alaskan, are encouraged to apply. CPE applications are received on a rolling basis until all openings are filled. Once the program is at capacity, applications may be held on a waiting list for consideration in the next available unit. Tuition is $800 per unit, with a nonrefundable deposit of $300 due with your acceptance materials. The $500 balance is due on the first day of your CPE program. Your ecclesial body or seminary may be able to provide funding to help defray the costs. Please complete the ACPE application use of clinical materials consent form and mail them to this address: Rev. Young-Ki Eun, CPE Director 545 First Avenue Floor C-Room 019 You can also email your application to Young-Ki.Eun@NYULangone.org For more information on our CPE programs, please contact SpiritualCare@NYULangone.org Our Specialties Our neurologists are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Dysautonomia Center Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Neuro-Ophthalmology Program Neuropalliative Care Pediatric Epilepsy Program Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis Center tDCS Program Ranked No. 1 in the U.S. ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery. Top Ranked Specialties NYU Langone has 13 top-ranked specialties in the nation, according to When it comes to your brain, only the best will do. NYU Langone neurologists are dedicated to providing exceptional patient care, driven by innovative scientific research. Our record of excellence is reflected in our No. 1 ranking in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery in U.S. News and World Report’s “Best Hospitals.” We’re advancing our knowledge of neurology through innovative research and clinical trials. We also train the next generation of world-class neurologists. With more than 260 faculty and over 100,000 outpatient visits annually, we provide outstanding, compassionate care and treat a broad range of neurological conditions, from headache autonomic disorders , to more rare conditions, such as atypical facial pain myasthenia gravis A Team Approach to Neurology Care As leaders in the field of conditions that affect the brain and nervous system, NYU Langone is home to the country’s most prominent programs and centers, and our cross-disciplinary expertise helps us unravel the most complex clinical puzzles. Experts at our provide personalized treatment plans for people living with multiple sclerosis (MS) , while doctors at our , take a humanistic and empathetic approach to care for people who have such as , essential tremor, and dystonia. Comprehensive Stoke Center , certified by The Joint Commission, provides the most advanced care 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and is part of the integrated , which benefits from close work with specialists across NYU Langone. Brain Recordings Reveal How All Minds Plan Speech Together with our colleagues at the , we have improved diagnosis, while our is among the largest epilepsy and seizure disorders treatment programs in the United States, specializing in treating challenging forms of epilepsy, including epilepsy in children Specialized Care for Brain and Nervous System Disorders We monitor our patients’ neurological status with state-of-the-art diagnostic techniques and work to develop increasingly effective therapies to manage their conditions. Our provides genetic testing and evaluation to identify and better understand conditions that effect the brain and nervous system, and doctors at our analyze eye movements to aid in the diagnosis of a variety of neurological conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements, such as double vision and optic neuritis. , our team provides early diagnosis and the appropriate treatments for Alzheimer’s disease memory loss , coupled with support services for families and caregivers. With our vast expertise and depth of knowledge, our neurology team emphasizes compassion and comfort, and we customize our treatments to meet your unique needs. Our neurologists are available at throughout the New York City area and the surrounding suburbs of Long Island. Our Neurology Centers and Programs We offer immediate diagnosis and treatment, as well as rehabilitation services, in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our experts offer superior clinical care for people with autonomic disorders. We help people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders to achieve the highest possible quality of life. We offer support for people with multiple sclerosis, while also working toward a cure. We provide high-quality care to people with disorders affecting vision and the nervous system. Our experts provide diagnosis and treatment of neurogenetic conditions. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory loss. We provide expert diagnosis and treatment for children and teens with epilepsy. We provide treatment and support for children living with multiple sclerosis. We offer at-home tDCS sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. New Drug Offers Relief for Treatment-Resistant Epilepsy Rapid Stroke Treatment Is Lifesaving for Brooklyn Patient Teleneurology Challenges Met by Training Curriculum How Doctors Solved the Mystery of the Dancing Scar Restoring Key Brain Rhythm May Help Treat Depression Stressful Events Worsen Long COVID Symptoms Research Partnership Tackles Parkinson’s Disease Progression Cognitive Neurology Expert Reflects on World Alzheimer’s Day NYU Langone Is an Integrated Comprehensive Stroke Center Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health Care Team At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our patients are cared for by a team of medical professionals who are specially trained to help people learn how to manage diabetes. Clinical nutrition coordinator Emily Johnston and nurse Courtney Albert discuss a patient’s case. Inpatient Glycemic Management Service Our inpatient nurse practitioners care for people who have diabetes and glucose problems while they are in the hospital, and provide inpatient discharge services that help you transition to managing your condition at home. Our inpatient services are available to people at NYU Langone’s E. Dessa Garnett, MSN, FNP-BC, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Garnett is a board-certified nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She works with patients while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level, and creates plans to help maintain their health at home. Ms. Garnett earned her master of science degree in nursing from SUNY Downstate. Yonit Lipkind, MSN, FNP-BC, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lipkind is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She works with people who have diabetes while they are in the hospital to help them achieve a healthy blood glucose level. She also educates patients on ways they can properly control their blood glucose levels once they return home. Annie D. Lu, MSN, ANP-BC, BC-ADM, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Lu is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner who has more than 10 years of experience helping people with diabetes better manage the condition. She is board certified in advanced diabetes management and specializes in providing diabetes care in a hospital setting and helping people as they transition back home. She earned her master of science degree in nursing from Columbia University. Victoria Maffey, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Maffey is a board-certified family nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator who helps patients who are newly diagnosed with type 1 or type 2 diabetes learn how to control blood glucose levels. She also helps patients struggling with glucose control learn better ways to manage the condition. Her goal is to improve her patients’ overall health and teach them ways to easily and actively manage diabetes in their everyday lives. Iryna Sasinovich, MSN, RN, CDE, Nurse Practitioner Ms. Sasinovich is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner and certified diabetes educator. She assists doctors and nurse practitioners to help hospitalized patients who have type 1 and 2 diabetes achieve better glycemic control. This can shorten the length of a hospital stay and reduce the risk of infection. She also specializes in helping people who are newly diagnosed or have poorly controlled diabetes better manage the condition. Sandra Waugh, DNP, FNP-BC, MSN, RN, Nurse Practitioner Dr. Waugh, who holds a doctorate in nursing practice, is a board-certified family nurse practitioner. She educates patients and their families about diabetes and how best to manage the condition in everyday life. Her goal is to help patients maintain a healthy blood glucose level, which in turn improves their overall health. Dr. Waugh received her doctorate from Robert Morris University and both her master of science degree in nursing and family nurse practitioner degree from Molloy College. Center for Diabetes and Endocrinology Outpatient Care Team Our team of certified diabetes educators, registered dietitians, and registered nurses assist patients at several of our outpatient locations. Courtney Albert, BSN, CDE, Registered Nurse Ms. Albert, a certified diabetes educator, takes an individualized approach to educating patients on the best ways to manage diabetes. This includes helping people adapt to life with diabetes, understand their medications, and manage symptoms that can accompany the condition. She also helps patients identify and put into practice the lifestyle modifications that are most likely to improve their overall health. Angela T. Amendola, MS, PA-C, RD, CDE, Physician Assistant Ms. Amendola is a physician assistant, certified diabetes educator, and registered dietitian. She earned her master of science degree in applied physiology and nutrition from Columbia University and completed her physician assistant studies at Hahnemann University. She provides diabetes education and nutrition counseling to patients. She also educates and advises them on ways to improve their glycemic control and diabetes management. Abigail Kennedy-Grant MS, RD, CDE, CDN, Registered Dietitian and Certified Diabetes Educator Ms. Kennedy-Grant completed her master of science degree in clinical nutrition and dietetic internship at New York University. She specializes in diabetes and nutrition education, especially for those who have type 1 diabetes. She is a certified dietitian nutritionist and a certified trainer on multiple insulin pump models and continuous glucose monitors. Ms. Kennedy-Grant is excited to help patients master the healthy habits that lead to achieving diabetes control, weight goals, and best health. Sunhi Shin, MA, RN, CDE Ms. Shin is a registered nurse and certified diabetes educator. She is passionate about diabetes education and uses education and lifestyle changes to help her patients manage their health. Ms. Shin practices at Concorde Medical Group. Diana Ventimiglia, RN-BC, BSN, Registered Nurse Ms. Ventimiglia is a board-certified medical–surgical registered nurse. She educates patients on ways to manage diabetes, including proper use of medication, and provides support to help them achieve their diet and exercise goals. If you’ve been diagnosed with , the right medication and lifestyle modifications can significantly improve your health. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our team of experts helps find the treatment approach that is right for you. Dr. Michael Bergman tests a patient's glucose levels. We determine whether oral medications, insulin, or newer medicines that improve blood glucose control while reducing appetite to trigger weight loss are best for you. Lifestyle modifications, such as improving diet and exercise to achieve meaningful weight loss, also have a huge impact on your health. We identify the changes that can be most helpful, and provide the support you need to make them part of your everyday life. Care for Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes occurs when the body is unable to use its natural insulin to keep blood glucose levels in a normal range. High blood glucose levels cause damage throughout the body, such as the heart, eyes, kidneys, and nerves. High blood pressure and uncontrolled cholesterol, which occur frequently in people with type 2 diabetes, worsen these complications. With the right treatment, it is possible to limit the impact of type 2 diabetes. Our endocrinologists determine which medicine provides you with the best blood glucose control. Our nurses, who are certified diabetes educators, help you to understand what it means to have type 2 diabetes and the best way to manage everyday life with diabetes. Our nutritionist is available to help you create a healthy eating plan that fits with your lifestyle. For some people, medical or surgical weight loss can put a stop to diabetes’ damaging effects on the body. We can connect you with NYU Langone’s Our goal is to help you gain control over type 2 diabetes so you can avoid the dangerous conditions that may accompany it, such as neuropathy , and vision loss. Type 2 diabetes care is provided by the following physicians: Nidhi Agrawal, MD Michael Bergman, MD Sonal Chaudhry, MD Aaron R. Chidakel, MD Sandra T. Foo, MD Ira J. Goldberg, MD Alina Gouller, MD Akankasha Goyal, MD Loren Wissner Greene, MD Gillian Katz, MD Sanjiv Kinkhabwala, MD Olga Leonardi, MD Valerie H. Peck, MD Stephen B. Richardson, MD Lawrence Rosman, MD Nina Sundaram, MD Stuart Weiss, MD Susan Zweig, MD For people with type 1 diabetes, taking insulin each day is a fundamental part of keeping blood glucose levels in check. But this is only one aspect of managing type 1 diabetes. Patient education and support are also crucial. Our experts provide patients with the tools needed to successfully manage type 1 diabetes. At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, we determine the treatment plan that is best for you, while also providing the tools and information you need to ensure your health and wellbeing. Focused Care for Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body fails to make its own insulin, a hormone that is essential for moving blood glucose into cells where it is used to produce energy. People with type 1 diabetes are usually diagnosed in childhood or young adulthood, but their medical needs last a lifetime. Whether you’ve been treated at NYU Langone’s or you’re an adult who is new to NYU Langone, our care team can develop a treatment plan to keep you healthy and help you successfully manage type 1 diabetes. Our endocrinologists monitor your insulin needs, which can change as you age. We determine the type of insulin that provides the best blood glucose control, and which delivery system is best for you, such as syringe injections, insulin pens, or an insulin pump. For patients that can benefit from using continuous glucose monitors, we’re experts in using these devices. Our certified diabetes educators and registered dieticians help you understand the impact that dietary carbohydrates and food choices have on insulin levels, and how to adjust your medicine accordingly. We also teach you how to recognize and treat spikes and dips in blood glucose levels, and help you understand how exercise and illness affect your diabetes control. As people with this condition age, if diabetes, blood pressure and cholesterol are not well controlled, the chances of foot ulcers increase. People with type 1 diabetes are also at greater risk of hypoglycemia, which is dangerously low blood glucose levels. Proper blood glucose control helps reduce these risks. If these conditions do develop, we have the expertise to help you manage them. Our goal is to help you maintain your everyday health, so you can live a long, healthy life on your terms. Type 1 diabetes care is provided by the following doctors: Sanjiv V. Kinkhabwala, MD Financial Information for International Patients At NYU Langone, we understand that the cost of medical care is a determining factor in where you choose to receive treatment. For that reason, our International Patient Services team provides high-quality healthcare services at competitive prices. As part of our service to you, our team seamlessly provides a fair and honest assessment of what you can expect to pay for your treatment. Your dedicated international coordinator provides you with an estimate of your medical costs, including both hospital and physician (professional) charges. The coordinator also helps with collecting the payment prior to your receiving care. The only exceptions are people who receive health coverage through their foreign embassy or people who participate in an international insurance program accepted by NYU Langone. In this case, your coordinator works with you on securing a letter of prior authorization either from your embassy or insurer. +1-212-263-3588 The spiritual care team at NYU Langone includes chaplains, rabbis, priests, and imams who are available to counsel people of all faiths, as well as those who do not have a spiritual practice. Our chaplains are board-certified or eligible for certification, meaning they have finished their theological and clinical pastoral education and are completing an additional 2,000 hours of clinical work as well as a professional board review. Our chaplains are available at our inpatient facilities in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Manhattan Spiritual Care Team Chaplains at NYU Langone’s are available weekdays from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Chaplains at are available by request . If you would like to speak to a chaplain, rabbi, priest, or imam after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Rabbi Amy Ruth Bolton, MA, BCC Rabbi Bolton is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master of arts in rabbinic studies and ordination from the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies at American Jewish University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Bolton served as a hospice chaplain with VNS Health. She has more than two decades of experience providing care in home, assisted living, long-term care, and hospital settings. Her professional experience also includes addiction recovery and adult and youth education. Rabbi Bolton is a co-founder of Lifestorms, a program offering integrated psycho-emotional and spiritual support. She speaks English and Hebrew. The Reverend Young-ki Eun, MDiv, ACPE Clinical Pastoral Educator (CPE) Rev. Eun is an ordained Presbyterian minister with more than 20 years’ experience working as a CPE educator, chaplain, university faculty member, and parish minister. He graduated from the University of Toronto/Knox College with a master’s degree in divinity. He has completed postgraduate studies in theology, English, linguistics, and psychoanalytic studies, as well as four years of clinical training in psychotherapy. Rev. Eun started his CPE journey in 1999 at Toronto General Hospital, Canada. His work as a CPE supervisor includes New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center; The Hospital of St. Raphael (now Yale New Haven Hospital-St Raphael Campus), Connecticut; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston; Ochsner Health System, New Orleans; and Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee. As an ACPE-certified educator, Rev. Eun has a passion for empowering chaplain residents and interns to gain a deeper connection with their authentic selves in a genuine, diverse, and trustworthy learning environment, and to forge and strengthen their own personal and professional identity in their spiritual-care ministry of compassion. Ahmet M. Atlig, PhD, BCC Staff Chaplain and Imam Dr. Atlig began his career at the Imams and Preachers Seminary in Izmir, Turkey, where he was ordained as an imam and Muslim cleric. He received his doctorate in philosophy from the Theology Department at the University of West Coast, and then served as the imam of New Peckham Mosque, in London. After relocating to the United States, Dr. Atlig completed the Clinical Pastoral Education program at VA New York Harbor Healthcare System and became a board-certified chaplain with HealthCare Chaplaincy Network in 2019. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as a chaplain at various New York City hospitals. Dr. Atlig speaks Turkish, Arabic, and English, and is married, with three children. Shaul Praver, BCC, DMin Staff Chaplain and Rabbi Chaplain Praver is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains and ordained by the Jerusalem Rabbinate. He received his doctorate in ministry from Hartford International University for Religion and Peace and completed his clinical training at Norwalk Hospital, both in Connecticut. Before joining NYU Langone, he served as chaplain–rabbi with the Connecticut Department of Correction. Prior to that, Chaplain Praver served as the spiritual leader of Congregation Adath Israel in Newtown, Connecticut. The Reverend W. Kaytlin Butler, MDiv Rev. Butler is a board-certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York, and she is an ordained teaching elder in the Presbyterian Church (USA). Before joining NYU Langone, she served as a chaplain for six years at Mount Sinai Hospital, where she also completed her clinical training. She is a widely respected speaker on subjects of spirituality and health. Rev. Butler serves as children’s services chaplain for Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care at Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone. The Reverend Rosemarie Napoli Associate Staff Chaplain Rev. Napoli is a Minister of Word and Sacrament in the Presbyterian Church USA. She has special interest in working with people with addictions and those living with HIV and AIDS. Rev. Napoli serves as the Associate Pastor at Fourth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. The Reverend Dwayne McClary, MDiv Rev. McClary received his master of divinity at Yale University and is ordained by the American Baptist Churches USA. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Rev. McClary completed his clinical training at Bridgeport and Norwalk Hospitals, both in Connecticut. He is also a seasoned music executive who has held marketing posts at Motown, Universal, and MCA Records. Rev. McClary holds a bachelor’s degree in journalism/communications from Rutgers University and certification in marketing from NYU’s School of Professional Studies. The Reverend Stephen Okeke Roman Catholic Priest Father Okeke received his master’s degree in pastoral theology from St. John’s University and his doctorate in pastoral counseling from Hebrew Union College—Jewish Institute of Religion in New York City. He worked in Nigeria for three years as an associate pastor and a chaplain with the St. Stephen’s Society. Father Okeke is also chaplain to the Igbo Catholic community in the Bronx, serving people whose roots are in West Africa. Jenelle Halley Department Secretary Ms. Halley’s passion for maintaining a positive and respectful work environment led her to our spiritual care team, where she manages all department events, meetings, patient requests, services, and training. Ms. Halley also provides administrative support to our department, and serves as the liaison between patients, the spiritual care team, and hospital leadership. Brooklyn Spiritual Care Team Chaplains are available on-site at on weekdays between 9:00AM and 5:00PM and on Sundays from 12:00 to 4:00PM. For more information, please call the Spiritual Care office at ; you can also request a nursing consult for spiritual needs. If you have an urgent spiritual need outside of the hours listed, please ask your nurse to call or the hospital operator for available resources. The Reverend Ray Lewis Jr. Rev. Lewis is a board-certified chaplain and pastoral counselor ordained by Hartford Memorial Baptist Church in Michigan. He received his master’s degree in divinity from Emory University in Georgia and his doctorate in pastoral care from the United Lutheran Seminary of Philadelphia. Rev. Lewis is currently pursuing a diplomate in pastoral supervision at The College of Pastoral Supervision and Psychotherapy. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he served as an adjunct instructor, pastor, and chaplain with the Florida Department of Corrections, VITAS and VNA hospice care, and the Level 1 Trauma Center at Penn Medicine. The Reverend Emmanuel Conduah Father Conduah has a postgraduate diploma in education from the University of Cape Coast in Ghana. He is working towards his doctorate in educational leadership at Fordham University and his clinical pastoral education certification with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains, under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn. Monica-Lisa Mills Monica-Lisa Mills received her master’s degree in divinity from New York City’s Episcopal Divinity School. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, she completed her clinical training at NewYork-Presbyterian’s Columbia University Irving Medical Center and its Brooklyn Methodist Hospital. Chaplain Mills is a visual artist and musician and previously worked as a high school ethics and religion teacher. Long Island Spiritual Care Team on weekdays between 8:30AM and 11:00PM. Please call to arrange a visit. If you have an urgent spiritual need after hours, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Learn how you can support our Spiritual Care Program Learn more about the Learn more about the staff of NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, which provides parent education and support. Victoria Masterson, CLC, CSPT, Program Coordinator Ms. Masterson has been a member of the NYU Langone family since 1987, beginning her career as a credentialing coordinator for the Emergency Department and managing training for all incoming resident and attending physicians. After transferring to Perinatal Education and Lactation in 2007, she is now responsible for the administrative support for all parent education programs, handling day-to-day operations for all classes, and is the administrative coordinator of our Lactation Telehealth Program.  Ms. Masterson holds a bachelor’s degree in child development, is an American Heart Association (AHA) cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor, a nationally certified child passenger safety technician, a baby sign language instructor, and a certified lactation counselor. Rachel Leibson, RN, BSN, IBCLC, BA, Nurse Coordinator of Lactation Services Ms. Leibson has been with NYU Langone since January of 2020. She was hired as a lactation specialist and became a nurse coordinator in 2021. Ms. Leibson’s career has included postpartum nursing, pediatric outpatient nursing, and inpatient and outpatient lactation consulting. She believes in respectful care of every family and is passionate about helping them meet their feeding goals with nonjudgmental support and education. She coordinates a team of lactation specialists at Tisch Hospital and is proud of the empathetic and skilled care they provide to their patients. Elizabeth Lampert, RN, MSN ED, CLC, LCCE, Nurse Coordinator for Parent Education and Community Outreach As a doula and childbirth educator, Ms. Lampert has worked as a maternal–child health nurse and educator for more than 20 years at hospitals in New Jersey and New York. She is an advanced and basic cardiac life support and neonatal resuscitation instructor and a TeamSTEPPS master trainer. The recorded Ready, Set, Baby! information session guides you through what happens from the time you arrive at the hospital to delivery, discharge, and your return home. Links are available for those delivering at NYU Langone’s , and they include photos and videos showcasing our units and special programs. For more information, please email register online The following eClasses, from NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation, are available in your choice of eight languages: English, Arabic, Spanish, French, Portuguese, German, Japanese, and Chinese. You can progress at your own pace: after you first sign on, you have nine months to complete or review the class before you lose access. eClasses can be viewed on your smartphone, computer, or tablet, and their sections can be viewed in any order. Understanding Birth Consider this class your go-to guide for answers you can trust on pregnancy, labor, comfort techniques, medical procedures, and newborn and postpartum information. This interactive online course also highlights ways partners or support persons can help throughout the process. You’ll also get a sense of what labor is really like as you watch several birth stories, and you’ll also have the opportunity to create your own birth plan. : $150 Understanding Fatherhood This class will help guide you through your fatherhood journey—from pregnancy to birth and beyond. Using video clips featuring real fathers and interactive activities, this eClass can help you feel more prepared. We recognize that there are all types of dads and families. No matter what your situation, this inclusive class will offer helpful information as you prepare for this life transition. : $45 Understanding Your Newborn Babies do not come with an owner’s manual, but this online class to is the next best thing. Through instructive video clips, animations, and interactive games, this comprehensive class teaches you how to care for and bond with your newborn. Sleep patterns, comfort techniques, and basic baby care are all covered. : $75 Understanding Breastfeeding Breastfeeding can be an amazing experience, but it is not always easy. This class, which discusses the benefits of breastfeeding and common challenges in a nonjudgmental way, gives you the tools to make the best choice for your family. : $60. Understanding Grandparenting Birth and babies haven’t changed, but what we know about them has. Now you can prepare yourself for your new role from the comfort of home. This interactive online class covers the current evidence-based knowledge about birth, breastfeeding, baby care, and infant safety, and it provides ways for new grandparents to offer support and assistance to the new family. In just a few hours you will learn what’s new, refresh what you already know, and feel more comfortable when called upon to help care for your grandchild. Get ready to take on one of life’s most rewarding roles. The program includes videos, animations, tools and trackers, and an audio library, with lullabies. : $40 We’re excited that you have chosen to deliver your baby at NYU Langone. As you prepare for your baby’s arrival, we encourage you to select an obstetrician and a pediatrician, complete a birth plan, and learn ways to maintain your health during and after . We also provide tips on how to To make the admission process easier when you are in labor, we ask that you fill out our pre-maternity registration packet . Please submit the completed packet to our obstetrics pre-admitting specialists by faxing it to 646-754-9572 or emailing it to ObPre-Adm@NYULangone.org . If you have questions, please call us at 646-501-3967 We can help find the right doctor for you or your child. For expecting mothers, our obstetricians provide specialized care before and after your baby is born. Our pediatricians care for infants, children, and teenagers at Your Birth Plan In order to provide the birthing experience that you want, we encourage you to share your hopes and expectations for childbirth with your doctors and nurses. To start the discussion, please fill out our . After completing the form, please discuss the answers with your doctor and anyone else you plan to have present during the birth such as your partner, birth coach, or midwife. For example, we want to know if an epidural is part of your pain management plan, whether or not you plan to breastfeed, and if you would like your baby to remain in your room for the duration of your stay. Please keep in mind that a birth plan is a guide, not a guarantee. By its nature, birth is dynamic and unpredictable. It’s important to be open and flexible in your expectations, as circumstances can change unexpectedly. We are fully committed to your active participation in the decision-making process throughout the course of your labor. Our goal is to provide you with a beautiful, safe, and memorable birth experience. Psychological Wellbeing At NYU Langone, our psychiatrists provide evaluation and treatment for women with pregnancy-related and postpartum psychiatric disorders. These include mood disorders such as anxiety disorders , postpartum blues, postpartum depression, postpartum obsessive-compulsive disorder, and postpartum psychosis. We can also answer questions about using psychiatric medications during pregnancy and while breastfeeding. Pain Management During Labor and Delivery Our doctors offer different types of pain management options during labor, based on your preferences and needs. Learn more about pain relief during labor and delivery Prenatal and Postpartum Exercise Program Pregnancy and childbirth put a considerable amount of physical stress on the body. As a result, you might ache in places for the first time, such as your neck, lower back, pelvic area, and your joints. Some women also deal with female urinary incontinence You may find relief from this discomfort with the exercise and strength-training techniques taught in the women’s health program at Rusk Rehabilitation Routine Medications After Birth All newborns receive a vitamin K injection and erythromycin eye ointment after birth. The vitamin K injection reduces the risk of bleeding due to a vitamin K deficiency. The erythromycin reduces the risk of severe eye infection. Both treatments are required by law for all infants born in New York. Hepatitis B Vaccine Hepatitis B is a serious and sometimes fatal liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus. People who are infected with hepatitis B may or may not feel sick, but can still transmit the virus to others. When babies get infected, the virus usually remains in the body for a lifetime. Babies can get the virus from their infected mothers at birth or, more commonly, from an infected person who cares for the baby or works in the home. The hepatitis B vaccine is a baby’s best defense against being infected with this virus. Experts from the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention all recommend vaccination against hepatitis B as a routine part of a newborn’s hospital care, just like checking a baby’s hearing. It is our standard to offer and administer the hepatitis B vaccine to all newborns born at NYU Langone. Spiritual Care Request Form Please contact the spiritual care team using the form below.You can expect a response within one business day. If this is an urgent request, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Hospital and Room Number Describe your Request Prayer Visit from Chaplain Communion Religious Preference (if applicable) NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation offers numerous parent education classes and groups that help you prepare for childbirth and provide you with the support you need when you bring your baby home. Our live online classes, eClasses, and support groups are available to all—and our , available in several languages, let you learn at your own place. Topics we cover include information about the following: pregnancy and childbirth newborn, infant, and toddler parenting breastfeeding In addition, our free teaches you what to expect from the childbirth experience at NYU Langone. For more information about any of these programs, please email . To register for any of these classes or programs, please use our online registration system Pregnancy and Childbirth Classes If you prefer to learn at your own pace or have limited time, consider our eClass Understanding Childbirth Childbirth Express (Live Online) This one-day class is a fast-paced overview of the childbirth experience. Topics include physiology of labor, comfort measures, common practices and interventions, birth preferences, and postpartum adjustments. Register onlin e. : $299 Prepared Childbirth (Live Online) The Prepared Childbirth class is a three-week childbirth education series for pregnant women and their support persons. Topics are based on the Lamaze International philosophy and include birth physiology, including what’s going on before, during, and after labor; comfort techniques during labor; medical interventions, including pain medication; and how to prepare for the immediate and at-home postpartum experience. Each 2.5-hour class is live-streamed, and participants are encouraged to ask questions and participate in discussions with the instructor and other class participants. Ready, Set, Induction! (Recorded Link) Ready, Set, Induction! is a brief recorded presentation about induction of labor—interventions your doctor may use to stimulate uterine contractions before labor begins on its own. This session is intended for women who have been scheduled for induction of labor and their support person. Our instructor provides an overview of the common medical reasons for scheduling induction of labor, as well as information about what to expect when you arrive at the hospital. We also provide answers to the most frequently asked questions about induction of labor. : Free Babywearing (Live Online) Babywearing, which is carrying your baby on your body with an infant carrier, offers many benefits for parents and babies, from enhanced bonding to simple convenience. In this workshop, expecting parents learn the ins and outs of choosing and using baby carriers safely and comfortably. Topics include the biology of babywearing, types of popular carriers, choosing the right carrier for your family, ensuring comfort and safety, and troubleshooting, followed by a question-and-answer session. : $30 Infant Safety Seat Basics (Live Online) Learn the basics of your infant safety seat, including strap positioning, proper harness adjustment for your baby, aftermarket products, and expiration dates. Other topics include height and weight limits, handle positions, and the importance of using infant safety seats even if you do not own a car. This session is ideal for those who already own a car seat. Please have a stuffed animal or infant doll available for the session. : $25 Birth Basics in Japanese and English (Live Online) This four-hour livestreamed class covers the basics of healthy birth. Topics addressed include the Lamaze Six Healthy Birth Practices, stages of labor, medical support and postpartum healing. Learn about laboring at home and at the hospital and practice a variety of pain-coping techniques. This class is taught in Japanese and English and is intended for couples. : $200 Planned Cesarean Birth (Live Online) This two-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to people who already have a cesarean birth scheduled. This class reviews how best to prepare, what happens during cesarean delivery, and what to expect after your baby is born. : $60 Dogs and Storks (Live Online) During “Dogs and Storks,” we help families that have dogs prepare for life with a baby. We offer positive, practical, and fun solutions that help you include your dog once the newest member of your family arrives. This workshop helps families transition from pet parents to baby parents with pets. Healthy Families (Live Online) Becoming parents can bring profound changes to a couple’s relationship. During the Healthy Families webinar, new and expecting parents learn ways to work through conflict with greater ease, improve communication, create positive parent–infant interactions, maintain relationship satisfaction, reduce the incidence or severity of postpartum mood disorders, and increase friendship in the relationship. This webinar is based on the work of researchers at the Gottman Institute, which teaches the Gottman Method of couples therapy. Healthy Pregnancy (Live Online) During this two-hour presentation, you learn how your baby grows and what physical changes you can expect throughout your pregnancy. Our certified childbirth educator provides practical tips for relieving the physical discomfort that women commonly feel as their babies grow. This class is most appropriate for women and their partners in the first trimester or early second trimester of pregnancy. : $20 Introduction to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean (Recorded Link) This complimentary online webinar provides an overview and discusses the facts about vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) , as well as assists you in exploring your childbirth options. Prepared Childbirth Review (Live Online) If this is not your first pregnancy and you’d like a childbirth refresher course, the Prepared Childbirth Review may be for you. This three-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to couples that have completed the Prepared Childbirth course within the last three years. This is not adequate for couples having their first baby. Please email NYUBaby@NYULangone to request. : $50 Ready, Set, Grandparent! (Live Online) Soon-to-be grandparents are invited to our Ready, Set, Grandparent! class, which explores the transition to this new and exciting role. We discuss generational parenting differences, current maternity and infant care practices, and how to best help new parents. We also review baby care, including feeding, diapering, swaddling, and more. Terrific Twins and Triplets (Live Online) This course helps you and your partner prepare for the unique joys and challenges of raising multiples. From pregnancy to birth to parenting, we provide guidance, tips, and educational tools to help you plan for your new family. We also discuss self-care, baby care, feeding, essential equipment, getting around, and more. Prenatal Yoga (Live Online) This livestreamed class is for pregnant women who have entered their second trimester. Yoga is a safe and beneficial form of prenatal exercise. Movements and poses strengthen and tone the muscles and organs. An emphasis is placed on soothing practices including breathing, meditation, visualization, and relaxation. : $150 for a 4-week series Yoga for Labor and Delivery (Live Online) This two-hour live online session uses movement, positions, breath, and relaxation to support the birthing process. Keeping the mind calm is helpful during childbirth. Sessions are for the expectant mother and her birthing partner. Cost: $50 Newborn, Infant, and Toddler Parenting Classes and Support Going Home with Your Baby (Recorded Link) This recorded presentation contains important information regarding your discharge from the hospital and caring for yourself and your baby in the early days after delivery. We encourage you to view this complimentary video both prior to and again after delivering your baby. Babyproofing and Child Safety (Live Online) During this 75-minute livestreamed class, participants learn about sleep and crib safety, childproofing, fire safety, emergency preparedness, safety products, and ways to prevent poisoning. This session covers safety measures for newborns through the toddler years and general home safety for all. : $40 for 2 participants. Potty Training Basics (Live Online) Learn how to determine when your child is emotionally and physically ready for toilet training in this two-hour live online session. We provide parents of children ages 18 months to 2.5 years of age with strategies to make the process fun and help avoid setbacks. Each session includes plenty of time for discussion. Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) Sign, Say, and Play! is a live online baby sign language workshop series for hearing babies. Classes are a fun and entertaining way for parents and hearing babies to learn sign language together. Topics covered in this three-week series include mealtime, bedtime, bath time, getting dressed, pets, and the park. Through songs, activities, books, and instruction, six or seven signs are taught for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 More Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) This second six-week series of “play classes” helps provide parents with information on how they can support their baby’s social and emotional development through fun activities, games, and songs. The curriculum has been designed to follow the first series, although it can be taken as a standalone series. Topics covered in this three-week baby sign language series include feelings, outside, farm, safety, zoo, and birthday. Six or seven signs are learned for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 ($72 if you previously purchased the first baby sign language series) Mothers with Toddlers Group (Live Online) During our Mothers with Toddlers Group, moms meet virtually to discuss their children’s behaviors, share their experiences, and provide encouragement. The group is facilitated by our professional staff who share and offer guidance when needed. : Free for mothers who delivered at NYU Langone; $15 for the general public Infant CPR (Live Online) During this live, online course, a certified cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor teaches parents and caregivers the basic steps of CPR and choking relief for infants up to 1 year old. Participants are asked to have on hand a doll or stuffed animal to use for practicing chest compressions alongside the instructor. This webinar is designed to provide an overview of the basic steps of infant CPR and choking. It is not a certification course. The course includes time to ask questions and have group discussion with the instructor. : $40 Sibling Class (Live Online) This one-hour webinar uses discussion and educational play to help children prepare for their new sibling. The class is designed for children age 3 and older. : $15 Starting Solids (Live Online) As your baby nears the sixth month of life, he or she approaches a major milestone: eating solid food. Learn what you need to know to feel confident when introducing your baby to solid foods. Baby and Me Yoga (Live Online) This 45-minute yoga session is for mothers and newborns between 6 weeks and 12 months of age. We practice gentle stretching, meditation, and breathing exercises to help moms build strength, balance, and flexibility. Moms also share parenting tips and experiences in a peaceful, relaxed environment. No Prenatal Yoga experience required. : $15 per session Learn and Play/New Baby & Parent Support Group (Live Online) This support group is for birthing parents with new babies to have the opportunity to meet and talk with others about their discoveries and experiences as a new parent. Most weeks there will be an opportunity to expand your baby’s and your own knowledge with scheduled guests and professionals, including but not limited to Baby Sign Language, dental health, Baby and Me Yoga, Baby Minds Activities, traveling with baby, and participant–requested topics. Registration for each session is required. : Free for those delivering at NYU Langone; $15 for general public Boot Camp for New Dads (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Dads is a workshop for fathers and other support persons of a birthing parents. During this three-hour class, our instructors discuss ways you can support support your partner through the childbirth experience, adjust to life with a newborn, and explore your new role as a father. If you prefer to learn at your own pace, or have limited time, consider our eClass : $65 Boot Camp for New Moms (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Moms is a unique workshop where moms-to-be get advice, insight, and tips on how to raise a baby. This 2.5-hour virtual session offers a judgment-free setting for expectant and new moms to discuss a variety of experiences about what happens in the early days after birth. The workshop shows that there’s no one “right” way. Breastfeeding Classes and Support Prenatal Breastfeeding Basics (Live Online) This 2.5-hour class for expectant mothers and their partner or another family member is taught by an International Board-Certified Lactation Consultant. Topics covered include the benefits of breastfeeding, proper positioning and attachment, maintaining milk supply, learning feeding cues, what to expect in the early weeks, and strategies to deal with early breastfeeding challenges. There will be opportunities for questions and answers. Partners and support persons are strongly encouraged to attend. : $80 Lactation 101: Breastfeeding in the Hospital (Recorded Link) As a follow-up to your prenatal breastfeeding class, please watch this video to review the process of early breastfeeding in the hospital and what to expect after giving birth. This guide to basic breastfeeding information will help get you and your baby off to the right start. Pumping 101 (Live Online) This live, 90-minute class, taught by a board-certified lactation consultant, is for those who want to learn more about pumping breast milk for their baby. Topics include how to choose the right pump to meet your needs, how to combine breastfeeding and pumping, when and how to pump, techniques to effectively express your milk, best practices for storage and handling of breast milk, and more. There will be ample time for questions and answers at the end of the session. Telehealth Lactation Consultations During this 60-minute, one-on-one online session, an international board-certified lactation consultant evaluates the breastfeeding relationship and addresses your questions and concerns. At the end of the session, you receive a personalized care plan to help you reach your breastfeeding goals. All sessions take place through your . If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can create an account . We also recommend that you download the to access your MyChart account from your mobile device. To schedule virtual lactation video visit, please email your request to , with the subject line: Lactation Consultation Request. Please include your full name, baby’s name, baby’s date of birth, and your phone number in your email. : Visits are covered by most insurance plans. Check with your insurance plan to ensure there is no out-of-pocket expense. Breastfeeding Café (Live Online) This online support group offers new mothers who have newborns to six-month-olds the opportunity to provide each other with encouragement and feedback on breastfeeding. The session is in a question-and-answer format. Registration for each session is required. Breastfeeding Café Grande (Live Online) This online group offers breastfeeding support and encouragement to mothers of babies 4 months of age and older. Finding Balance: Breastfeeding and Returning to Work (Live Online) Taught by a lactation consultant, this 90-minute class is for mothers who are preparing to return to work and want to keep breastfeeding. We recommend you take this class at least one month before your maternity leave ends. We have locations and programs throughout New York City. 718-630-7942 Family Health Centers Adult Medicine Program Behavioral Health Program Community-Based Programs Early Childhood Services Youth & Adolescent Services Community Development Programs Family Strengthening Services Older Adult Services Pediatric Health Program Rehabilitation Program School Health Program Women’s Health Leadership & Board of Trustees The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, founded in 1967, has grown to become one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center networks in the nation. We are home to the largest dental residency program in the country, the largest school health program in New York, and with more than 100,000 patients, our network handles 600,000 doctor’s visits each year. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a community-based program that provides high-quality primary and preventive outpatient care to adults and children regardless of their ability to pay or health insurance status. Family Health Centers Provides Backpacks for Students Family Health Centers Receives Grant for Overdose Prevention EMT Training Program Opens Door to Careers in Healthcare Our organization is dedicated to providing the highest-quality care through evidence-based practices. This means that our treatments and procedures are guided by the latest and most reliable findings in the medical field. We have received  Magnet recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. This achievement is considered the gold standard of nursing care, and reflects our ongoing commitment to providing the highest level of quality and safety to our patients. Learn more by reading our 50th Anniversary Report to the Community and watching our video. VIDEO: The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offers healthcare and community-based services to adults and children throughout Brooklyn. Services We Provide Our network of Brooklyn-based community health centers includes 9 primary care and specialty sites, more than 50 school-based health and dental clinics, and a wide array of social support services for adults, children, and families. We provide access to the following services: primary and specialty care for adults obstetrics and women’s health services pediatric care dental care behavioral and mental health services school-based health programs provide children access during the school day to medical, dental, and vision care, as well as behavioral health services. provide job training for adults youth development opportunities early childhood programs programs for older adults . The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone also operate community medicine clinics that provide access to primary healthcare services to people who are dealing with homelessness and transitional living issues. Careers at the Family Health Centers Learn about healthcare-related jobs, including jobs for dentists, nurses, and physicians. View Our Job Opportunities Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a Health Center Program grantee under 42 U.S.C. 254b, and a deemed Public Health Service employee under 42 U.S.C. 233(g)-(n) and a member of the National Health Service Corps. This health center receives Health and Human Services (HHS) funding and has Federal Public Health Service (PHS) deemed status with respect to certain health or health-related claims, including medical malpractice claims, for itself and its covered individuals. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides a welcoming environment to all regardless of race, color, sex, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, or ability to pay. We provide for people who cannot pay for their medical care through a sliding scale fee discount program. We accept most major insurance plans, including Medicaid and Medicare. Clinic Locations Family Physician Family Health Center at NYU Langone Flatbush Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Ridge Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Slope Family Health Center at NYU Langone Red Hook Family Health Center at NYU Langone Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—55th Street Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—Second Avenue Sunset Terrace Family Health Center at NYU Langone We are a leader in stroke and trauma care and the hospital of choice in Brooklyn. Community Medicine Program—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide medical care to people who are homeless or living in transitional housing. Dental Medicine—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide dental care to adults and children through our community-based and school-based programs. Services for Older Adults Transportation Program Learn more about civil rights complaints and how to file a complaint related to our provision of transportation services for older adults. View More Information Dr. Glenn Saxe Has a Mission to Help Children Escape Trauma New Requirements Impact Medicaid-Eligible Patients Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Expands into Red Hook Affirming Our Commitment to Providing Exceptional Care Four New In-School Dental Programs Open in Queens Good Grades Start with Good Vision Maternal & Child Healthcare in Brooklyn Earns Top Marks NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Earns Top Nursing Recognition $5M Grant Helps Launch Mental Illness Program in Brooklyn Electroconvulsive Therapy Program at Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital provides inpatient and outpatient to people who need treatment for , and other mood disorders. ECT is most often used as a treatment for people with a condition that is severe or has not responded to medication. During the procedure, you receive general anesthesia and are unconscious, so there is no discomfort. A small amount of electricity is used to trigger a seizure that lasts only 30 to 90 seconds. The seizure improves the symptoms of depression in most patients. Each ECT session lasts 10 to 15 minutes, although you will need extra time to prepare and then recover from the procedure. We recommend you allot at least two hours for each session. Treatments are given three times a week for two to four weeks. Most patients experience improvement in symptoms after 6 to 12 sessions. Preparing for Electroconvulsive Therapy Our experts evaluate each patient seen through our Electroconvulsive Therapy Program to ensure that ECT is the right treatment for your symptoms and condition. We talk with you about your medical history and perform a psychiatric evaluation. Our doctors order tests, including blood tests, an echocardiogram, and neuroimaging if necessary. These tests are performed to ensure you are medically cleared for treatment. Most people can safely receive ECT treatment, including older adults and pregnant women. During your initial ECT consultation, we encourage you and your family members to ask questions about the procedure and what to expect. Treatments can start while you are part of our inpatient psychiatry program, or, if advised by your doctor, you can begin as an outpatient. If you are an outpatient, you need to have someone available to bring you home after each treatment. Electroconvulsive therapy is a medical procedure that requires sedation, so we ask that you not eat anything after midnight the day before your scheduled appointment. For more information about our ECT program, please call 212-263-7419 Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders 212-263-4838 212-263-4837 At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, our mission is to advance treatment, education, and research for . We take a humanistic, empathetic, and compassionate approach to care, which emphasizes the person, rather than the disease. Fresco Institute team works closely with you and your family to develop customized treatment plans that fit your goals. We aim to provide the best treatments to control your symptoms and enhance your quality of life, while helping to connect you and your family to innovative programs in the community. The Fresco Institute is also committed to to improve our understanding of the nature of Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. Researchers are actively investigating ways to better address symptoms and improve treatment options. Among these innovative treatments are experimental medications tested in clinical trials, new forms of , and groundbreaking noninvasive treatments, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation. The Fresco Institute is proud to be a Parkinson’s Foundation Center of Excellence since 2009 and to be a leader in Parkinson’s disease care. The Fresco Institute, originally named the NYU Langone Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Center, was founded in 2007 with the generous support of the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic Foundation. Our physicians are leaders in diagnosing and treating patients with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Steven J. Frucht Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialist Un J. Kang Nora L. Chan Patrick Drummond Xavier Guell Paradis Rebecca Lalchan Claire Miller Giulietta M. Riboldi Betsy Thomas Patient Resources Neuroscience Institute The Fresco Institute is proud to partner with NYU Langone’s Neuroscience Institute, which conducts research into neurological conditions, such as Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer’s disease. We provide people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders with occupational and physical therapy, rehabilitation psychology, and speech–language therapy through NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. We are dedicated to training healthcare professionals and to advancing groundbreaking research into the causes and treatments of Parkinson's disease and movement disorders. Our Newsletter Read news from the Fresco Institute. Email parkinsons@nyulangone.org to subscribe. View New Patient Intake Questionnaire Grant Awarded to Study Alzheimer’s & Parkinson’s via the Eye NYU Langone Health is committed to delivering the highest standard of care to the diverse communities we treat. When you share your race, ethnicity, and preferred language, we get to know more about you and your community. This helps us as we continue to work together to achieve the best health outcomes for all. What is the difference between race and ethnicity? NYU Langone is an international and diverse community with staff members from many countries and ethnicities. Race refers to how a person identifies with one or more social groups. Ethnicity is more specific and gives us more information. It refers to social groups with a shared history, identity, and culture. Why should I answer these questions? You can choose to answer questions about how you identify socially. You do not have to answer every question. However, answering all the questions helps your care team better meet your unique health needs. If I choose not to answer these questions, will this affect my medical care? Your medical care will not be affected in any way by your decision not to answer these questions. How do you use this information? We look at the patterns of information from our electronic health records. This helps us identify ways to improve how we provide you with the best possible care. We also use this information to teach our clinical teams and ensure equitable care to all of our patients. Will the information I provide affect my health insurance coverage? No. Your answers to these questions will not affect your insurance coverage or medical care. How can I update my personal details? To update your information, log in to your and select “Account Settings” at the bottom of the menu. Click “Personal Information.” How can I be sure that this information will not be used to discriminate against me? The policy of NYU Langone Health and the is to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. Where is my information stored? We use Epic, an electronic health record system, to process and store patient information. You can access your personal health information and medical records through your . Or you can access them by using the . Download our app and sign in with your NYU Langone Health MyChart username and password to stay connected to your care. If you do not have a MyChart account, you can How do I know my information is secure? All patient information collected by NYU Langone Health is protected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). This federal law ensures that patient health information (PHI) is not shared without your consent or knowledge. Examples of PHI include your name, address, phone number, Social Security number, medical records, and financial information. We offer several convenient parking options for patients and visitors at many of our midtown Manhattan locations. Download our midtown Manhattan public parking map At NYU Langone, we provide you with individualized care targeted to your treatment goals. This approach includes allowing you to choose who can make decisions for you in the event you are unable to do so for yourself. This process, called advance care planning, is a key component of our patient-focused approach to care. Life is unpredictable, and our goal is to ensure that your wishes regarding the type and extent of medical treatment you receive are fulfilled. Advance care planning has four basic components. To get started, download our Advance Care Planning guide , which can help you get down your thoughts and share them with others. The guide is also available in Step 1: Consider your wishes for future care. Step 2: Select a healthcare agent—it can be a family member, friend, or anyone you trust. They act on your behalf should your doctor determine that you are unable to make your own healthcare decisions. Then, have a conversation with that person to explain what matters most to you. Step 3: Fill out the healthcare proxy form , which is also available in , and in additional languages through New York State’s Department of Health website . The healthcare proxy is an advance directive that designates that person as your healthcare agent and outlines your wishes. The healthcare proxy form gives you the opportunity to share instructions related to specific medical treatments. For example, you can let your healthcare agent know if you would want certain treatments or procedures, such as breathing assistance if you become unable to breathe on your own or dialysis if your kidneys fail. You can also indicate your preference regarding organ donation Some people who are seriously ill or frail may also choose to complete a Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) form. This document indicates whether you want an attempt at resuscitation should your heart or breathing suddenly stop. The MOLST form also allows you to make other important decisions, and when signed by a provider it becomes a medical order that is valid in all healthcare settings and at home. At NYU Langone Health we provide the electronic version of MOLST for your convenience. Once these forms are completed, they can be updated at any time. This includes changing the person you select to be your healthcare agent. Your healthcare agent is only consulted if your doctor determines you are medically incapable of making your own healthcare decisions. Your healthcare choices always remain yours to make, provided you are medically able to do so. Step 4: Share your wishes for future care with your loved ones, providers and anyone else you feel should know your preferences. Upcoming Events We have a series of virtual webinars that are open to the public and available through Zoom. Thursday, January 16, 2025 3:00–4:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 989 0083 5533 Zoom Passcode: 121465 Advance Care Planning: Considerations for Patients with Developmental Disabilities Wednesday, March 5, 2025 11:00AM–12:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 984 5683 9265 Zoom Passcode: 827700 Monday, May 19, 2025 2:00–3:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 985 3103 9850 Zoom Passcode: 947442 We understand that these are tough decisions to make and difficult conversations to have. However, expressing your wishes to your loved ones benefits everyone. You get the respect you deserve, and your loved ones have the reassurance of knowing they made the decisions that were in line with your wishes. Our staff can help you have these conversations and can answer any questions you have about the process. Please contact us at 212-263-0416 AdvanceCarePlanning@NYULangone.org 646-501-7500 646-754-9593 Neuromyelitis Optica & MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment & Research Program MS Palliative Care Webinars Because affects each person differently, the team at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center is dedicated to providing outstanding care that addresses each person’s individual experience living with the condition. Our team of MS experts works closely with you and your family to maximize your potential and minimize your symptoms. Through diagnostic testing and a neurological examination, we identify your type of multiple sclerosis and develop a personalized management plan aimed at halting the disease and alleviating symptoms. VIDEO: Dr. Lauren Krupp, director of the Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, describes the evaluation, diagnosis, treatment, and services provided for people who have multiple sclerosis. We care for people with MS of all ages including children and adolescents through our A Team Approach to MS Care The MS Comprehensive Care Center team is committed to improving the lives of people with MS. Our neurologists, who are internationally recognized as leaders in MS care, create a personalized treatment plan that addresses all your needs. This can include medication plasma exchange . Nurses provide in-depth patient education and support on medication use, symptom management, and the effects of MS on the family. Our social worker offers one-on-one assessments and works with our psychologists to help with symptoms of , and other emotional reactions associated with MS. Multiple Sclerosis Care Get more details about how we diagnose MS and create treatment plans for our patients. are provided through NYU Langone’s . Psychologists and neuropsychologists focus on the cognitive aspects of MS. We also work with a urologist who specializes in treating people with bladder issues associated with MS. In addition, experts at the MS Comprehensive Care Center offer a variety of specialized groups, for people living with MS—and their families and friends—to help them cope with the disease and its symptoms, and to stay informed about scientific progress. MS Research and Education We are at the forefront of into new treatments for MS. Our goal is to find therapies that maximize function and cure MS. While other MS centers concentrate primarily on drug research, our center is equally focused on studying nonpharmaceutical treatments for MS. Our experts are leading the way in deﬁning state-of-the-art care for the daily symptoms people with MS face, such as fatigue, cognitive difﬁculties, pain, and mood disruption. We are also educating tomorrow’s healthcare professionals in the fight against MS through our multiple sclerosis fellowship in clinical care and research. MS Clinical Trials If you are interested in participating in a clinical trial to help evaluate new treatments for MS, please contact our research hotline at 646-501-7511 In addition to our main location at 240 East 38th Street in Manhattan, our doctors see patients at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Huntington . Care is provided by our world-renowned MS experts, as well as neurology fellows who are specifically trained in MS care. We are designated as a Center for Comprehensive Multiple Sclerosis Care by the New York chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. For more information about adult services or to make an appointment, please call Our team offers people with MS and their families a wide array of medical treatments and symptom management. Lauren B. Krupp Nada G. Abou-Fayssal Vito P. Arena Lauren Brandes Multiple Sclerosis Specialist Robert W. Charlson Leigh E. Charvet Malcolm H. Gottesman Josef M. Gutman Jonathan E. Howard Mihir Kakara Marshall J. Keilson Ilya Kister Kimberly A. O'Neill Mirza Omari Tyler E. Smith Robyn Wolintz Joshua H. Bacon Search more than 4,000 doctors and schedule an appointment online. Special Services Primary Care Services Our doctors partner with you to help you reach your wellness goals and treat illnesses that arise. From X-rays to MRI scans, we offer imaging services throughout the New York area. We provide emergency care for adults and children at several specialized locations. We offer urgent care for non-emergency medical concerns that need care as soon as possible. Find a Doctor by Specialty Select a specialty to view all doctors and schedule an appointment. Acupuncturists Allergists Allergy & Infectious Disease Doctors Audiologists Autonomic Disorder Specialists Bariatric Surgeons Bone Marrow Transplant Doctors Breast Cancer Surgeons Breast Oncologists Breast Plastic Surgeons Cancer Rehabilitation Specialists Cardiac Electrophysiologists Cardio-Oncologists Cardio-Rheumatologists Adult Congenital Heart Disease Doctors Heart Failure Doctors Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Doctors Interventional Cardiologists Pediatric Cardiologists Child & Adolescent Psychiatrists Child & Adolescent Psychologists Children's Nutritionists Clinical Neurophysiologists Colorectal Surgeons Cornea Specialists Cosmetic Plastic Surgeons Dementia & Alzheimer's Specialists Dentists Dermatologic Surgeons Dermatologists Autoimmune Dermatologists Cosmetic Dermatologists Hair Loss Dermatologists Melanoma Dermatologists Onco-Dermatologists Pediatric Dermatologists Skin Allergy Doctors Skin of Color Dermatologists Developmental & Behavioral Pediatricians Diabetes Specialists Endocrine Surgeons Bone Health Doctors Lipidologists Pediatric Endocrinologists Reproductive Endocrinologists Thyroid Doctors Transgender Endocrinologists Epilepsy Doctors Epilepsy Surgeons Exercise Physiologists Family Medicine Specialists Family Planning Specialists Forensic Psychiatrists Gastroenterologists Advanced Endoscopy Specialists Esophagus Doctors Hepatologists Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctors Pediatric Gastroenterologists Gastrointestinal Oncologists Gender Affirming Surgeons General Surgeons Genitourinary Oncologists Geriatricians Glaucoma Specialists Gynecologic Oncologists Gynecologists Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Doctors Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialists Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgeons Obstetricians Urogynecologists Hand Plastic Surgeons Head & Neck Oncologists Headache Specialists Hematologists Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgeons Infectious Disease Specialists Internists Interventional Pulmonologists Interventional Spine Specialists Kidney Stones Specialists Laryngologists Medical Oncologists Melanoma Specialists Musculoskeletal Oncologists Neuro-Oncologists Pediatric Hematologist-Oncologists Pediatric Neuro-oncologists Surgical Oncologists Thoracic Oncologists Urologic Oncologists Midwife Specialists Multiple Sclerosis Specialists Neonatologists Nephrologists Neuro-Ophthalmologists Neuro-Otologists Neurologic Physical Therapists Neurological Occupational Therapists Neurological Speech Pathologists Neurologists Clinical Neuropsychologists Neurogeneticists Neuromuscular Specialists Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialists Pediatric Epilepsy Doctors Pediatric Neurologists Sleep Medicine Doctors Vascular Neurologists Neuropsychiatrists Skull Base Surgeons Spine Surgeons Nutritionists Obesity Doctors Hand Therapists Pediatric Hand Therapists Pediatric Occupational Therapists Oculoplastic Surgeons Ophthalmologists Optometrists Pediatric Ophthalmologists Pediatric Optometrists Retinal Specialists Strabismus Specialists Uveitis Specialists Vitreoretinal Surgeons Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons Orthopedic Rehabilitation Specialists Orthopedic Surgeons Foot & Ankle Surgeons Hand & Wrist Surgeons Hip & Knee Reconstruction Specialists Orthopedic Trauma Surgeons Orthoplastic Surgeons Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeons Podiatrists Shoulder & Elbow Surgeons Sports Medicine Specialists Sports Orthopedic Surgeons Otolaryngologists Cochlear Implant Audiologists Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeons Head & Neck Surgeons Otologist & Neurotologists Pediatric Otolaryngologists Rhinologists Speech Pathologists Swallowing Specialists Pain Management Doctors Palliative Care Doctors Pediatric Allergist & Immunologists Pediatric Cardiac Surgeons Pediatric Hand Surgeons Pediatric Hepatologists Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctors Pediatric Nephrologists Pediatric Neuropsychologists Pediatric Neurosurgeons Pediatric Pelvic Floor Therapists Pediatric Physiatrists Pediatric Physical Therapists Pediatric Plastic Surgeons Pediatric Pulmonologists Pediatric Rheumatologists Pediatric Schroth Therapists Pediatric Speech Therapists Pediatric Surgeons Pediatric Urologists Pediatric Vestibular Therapists Pediatricians Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Specialists Lymphedema Therapists Pelvic Floor Therapists Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapists TMJ Physical Therapists Vestibular Physical Therapists Work Conditioning Therapists Orthodontists Reconstructive Plastic Surgeons Wound Care Specialists Preventive Cardiologists Psychiatrists Psychosomatic Medicine Doctors Pulmonary Hypertension Specialists Pulmonologists Radiation Oncologists Rheumatologists Gout Specialists Lupus Doctors Psoriatic Arthritis Rheumatologists Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapists Sports Nutrition Specialists Thoracic Surgeons Toxicologists Transplant Pulmonologists Transplant Surgeons Urologists Andrologists Endourologists Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgeons Vascular Surgeons Vulvar Disease Specialists View All Specialties 212-263-7721 Neuro-ophthalmologists at NYU Langone are vastly experienced in diagnosing and treating all neuro-ophthalmologic conditions, including conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements. The conditions we treat for vision disorders include optic neuritis, ischemic optic neuropathy, optic nerve problems related to tumors, hereditary optic nerve disorders, pseudotumor cerebri, double vision, and nystagmus. If you are experiencing one of these conditions, you may have symptoms such as vision loss or double vision. Neuro-ophthalmologist Dr. Laura Balcer and neurologist Dr. Steven Galetta examine scans on a computer. Our physicians are highly skilled in diagnosing the underlying cause of these symptoms. Our doctors are also actively involved in research related to vision nerve problems and abnormal eye movements in , and other neurological conditions. Our team of neuro-ophthalmologists cares for adolescents and adults who are experiencing problems with vision and the central nervous system. Nancy Blace Steven L. Galetta Doria M. Gold Scott N. Grossman Melody Merati The expert team at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center provides the medical and rehabilitation support you need to recover from a head injury. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center diagnose and treat individuals with multiple sclerosis. NYU Langone Orthopedic Second Opinion Service Orthopedic Second Opinion Get a Second Opinion No. 1 in Quality & Safety Nationally recognized for providing the highest-quality care and having the best patient outcomes. 20,000 Surgeries Each Year As one of the highest volume centers in the United States, we’re in a unique position to improve patient outcomes. Perhaps your doctor has told you that you need surgery, or you have an orthopedic injury or condition that reoccurs even after treatment. Navigating healthcare issues like these can be challenging and time consuming. When you have questions or concerns about your medical condition or treatment plan, a second opinion can help you make informed decisions about your care. Create an account to get your second opinion from an NYU Langone expert. Request a Second Opinion NYU Langone’s online second opinion service gives you convenient access to the expertise and guidance of our renowned orthopedic surgeons. As one of the top-ranked orthopedic programs in the country, our specialists care for tens of thousands of people each year, providing the most advanced and innovative treatment. Our surgeons are experts in all areas of orthopedic care, from joint replacements and bone fractures to spinal disorders and sports injuries. Our orthopedic surgeons review your medical records and provide a personalized second opinion report to you and your treating physician. A second opinion can confirm your diagnosis and treatment plan, or provide different recommendations that you can review and discuss with your doctor. Get a Second Opinion Online You can get an online orthopedic second opinion without leaving home or traveling for an in-person visit with a specialist. We collect your medical information for your second opinion and send the report through our secure online portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. Here are the steps: Sign up for an NYU Langone Health MyChart account to get your second opinion. Tell us about your condition and provide your relevant medical records, imaging exams, and contact information for one of your treating physicians. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up to confirm your submission is complete. An NYU Langone expert reviews your information and prepares your second opinion report. We select the doctor who specializes in your condition to provide your second opinion. You can ask this expert to answer specific questions about your condition and treatment plan and get detailed responses. Our coordinator can help guide you through the second opinion process, and with gathering your medical information for the expert to review. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up within three business days to confirm that your submission is complete. If additional information is needed, the coordinator can work with you to gather and provide the necessary information. Your second opinion report is usually ready within five business days after receipt of your completed submission. If you have questions or to contact the coordinator, please call 646-878-1888 Orthopedic Second Opinion Cost The cost of an orthopedic second opinion is $800. This fee includes: a review of your medical records and imaging exams an expert evaluation of your case by an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon a detailed written report You can ask the expert to answer up to five questions in your second opinion report. You provide these questions along with your medical information for the expert to review. Payment is due when you submit your information. Most insurance plans do not cover the cost of a second opinion, and we are unable to provide a Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code. However, you may be able to use a flexible spending account (FSA) or health savings account (HSA) to pay for the second opinion. If we are unable to provide a second opinion for any reason, we refund your payment. After you receive your second opinion report, if you wish, we can help you schedule a visit with the specialist who provided your second opinion. This appointment is separate from the second opinion service and is not included in the cost of your second opinion. Imaging and Medical Information Requirements To ensure we have the right information to provide a thorough review, you need to gather your relevant medical records from your treating doctor and be prepared to submit them. This includes imaging studies, a copy of your operative report if you had surgery, a copy of your discharge summary if you were hospitalized, a summary of your doctor’s current treatment plan, and a list of all your medications. To get a second opinion, you must provide the imaging exams used to diagnosis your injury or condition, such as X-rays, MRIs, CT scans, or ultrasounds. Our secure portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart, allows you to upload and submit these imaging studies along with your information for your second opinion. Please use MyChart on a laptop or personal computer, instead of a phone or tablet. This provides the best experience and ensures you have access to all features in MyChart. NYU Langone’s Orthopedic Second Opinion Service does not create a physician–patient relationship between you and the NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon who rendered your second opinion. To get a second opinion, you must provide the contact information for a physician whose care you are currently under. NYU Langone will send a copy of the second opinion report to this doctor. You review the second opinion and decide whether to discuss it with your treating physician or another doctor of your choosing. Online Second Opinion Availability You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We are not currently able to offer this online service outside the United States, or in the following states: Alabama, Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon, you can browse our list of doctors By completing the process to request a second opinion and submitting payment, you acknowledge and agree to the above terms and conditions. Take Control of Your Healthcare with a Second Opinion We offer at-home sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. 929-455-5126 Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a type of noninvasive brain stimulation that can be used in the treatment of certain conditions. tDCS is used in different ways depending on the condition and treatment goal. For instance, it can help recovery from cognitive, motor, or speech and language problems from neurological disorders like , dementia, and head injury. In this approach, tDCS is used together with cognitive, motor, or speech and language exercises to “boost” the recovery process. Another common use of tDCS is for the treatment of . Daily sessions can have a cumulative benefit that many people find effective in improving their mood, cognitive difficulties, and ability to be physically active. In 2019, NYU Langone launched its innovative tDCS Program, which provides a way for people to receive this treatment at home. Our tDCS sessions, which are tailored to your individual needs and therapeutic goals, take place through video visits in the . Our team has more than a decade of experience studying tDCS as a home-based treatment. Using state-of-the art medical grade tDCS systems, our procedures ensure that your tDCS treatment is safe and well-tolerated. Learn more about the tDCS clinical program team. What to Expect During tDCS Treatment Each tDCS treatment session takes place by video visit and is supervised by an NYU Langone technician. During the session you wear a comfortable headset fitted with electrodes that rest on your scalp. A low-grade electric current flows through the electrodes while you engage in a therapeutic activity designed to treat your condition. These activities may include cognitive rehabilitation games, speech and language training, physical therapy exercises, or psychological interventions such as mindfulness meditation. Depending on the condition being treated, tDCS is used to either increase or decrease brain activity in the region where the current is directed. Each at-home session typically lasts 30 minutes. We generally recommend a minimum of 10 daily sessions to evaluate if you are experiencing benefits. “The first day I tried tDCS, I started crying while doing my balance exercises—I couldn’t believe how well I was doing. Over the first week of treatment, everything I was working on improved significantly—both my vision therapist and my vestibular therapist were over the moon about my progress.” M. Archer Prior to the initial video visit, our team sends you all the equipment, including a custom headset. During a virtual intake visit we show you how to use the equipment and discusses your individual treatment plan. tDCS is not currently covered by insurance, but your initial visit may be reimbursable. Our program offers bundled sessions to reduce the cost per session and the equipment is loaned to you as part of treatment. Our Research and Clinical Trials If you are a doctor or other provider and would like to refer a patient to the tDCS Program, please call 929-455-5126. Researchers at NYU Langone lead the field in developing the use of tDCS and other emerging technologies to manage a range of cognitive, motor, and psychological symptoms and improve quality of life for the people who experience them. Learn more about our research efforts In addition, members of our team conduct designed to determine additional conditions that may benefit from tDCS. We may discuss whether it is appropriate for you to participate in one of these trials. For questions about our tDCS program or to learn whether it may be beneficial for you, call 929-455-5126. If you are a neurologist, psychiatrist, psychologist, physical or occupational therapist, speech–language pathologist, or other provider and would like to refer a patient, please call 929-455-5126. Experts at the tDCS Program offer at-home, customizable sessions, scheduled at your convenience. NYU Langone Launches Virtual Brain Stimulation Program NYU Langone Military Family Center We support veterans and military families in the New York City area. 855-698-4677 Military Family Center Our Programs & Services At the NYU Langone Military Family Center, we provide free, compassionate care for veterans and military families who are experiencing the long-term effects of all phases of military service and other life stresses, including relationship difficulties, school problems, and unemployment and relocation issues. Veterans Crisis Line This nationwide, toll-free hotline connects veterans and service members in crisis and their loved ones with information and qualified Department of Veterans Affairs responders. For more information, call 800-273-8255 Learn More About the Veterans Crisis Line We welcome veterans, including anyone who has served in the United States Armed Services, regardless of role, discharge status, or combat experience, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve. We also extend our services to the parents, siblings, spouses and partners, children, caretakers, and other family members of active-duty personnel, veterans, and members of the National Guard or Reserve. We offer high-quality, accessible, and integrated mental healthcare. Our free, confidential services are available in-person or through our Telemental Health Program. For patients in New York and Connecticut, these online sessions are offered through the . The confidential platform allows our mental health professionals to provide personalized care to military veterans and family members who prefer to work with their care team remotely or at flexible times. We do not share people’s confidential information with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs or any other public, private, or government entities unless required by law or with written permission. We comply with federal guidelines set by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Former Marine Corps captain Lamar Winslow talks about receiving care at the NYU Langone Military Family Center after experiencing symptoms of stress related to his military service. Our center hours are Monday through Thursday from 9:00AM to 8:00PM and Friday from 9:00AM to 6:00PM. We are closed on weekends and holidays. For more information about our services or to schedule an appointment, please call MilitaryFamilyClinic@NYULangone.org , which include individual, couples, and family therapy, medication management, and psychiatric evaluation. If you need immediate assistance, please contact the Veterans Crisis Line at . This confidential crisis support is available for veterans and their families 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Thank You The NYU Langone Military Family Center’s services are supported by generous funding from the Home Depot Foundation, the New York State Health Foundation, and the New York City Council. Honor Veterans by Looking After Their Mental Health 2021 ‘Mental Health Power 50’ Lists Two NYU Langone Experts Can Herbs & Other Supplements Treat Depression? Experts Provide Helpful Tips to Manage Holiday Stress Helping Veterans Cope with Mental Health Issues Military Family Clinic Celebrates Milestone Military Family Clinic Strengthens Mental Health Partnership Veterans Find Help at the Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic Searching for Better Ways to Diagnose & Treat Veterans , we offer neuropalliative care aimed at improving the quality of life of our patients facing serious neurologic illnesses. Our primary goal is to ensure you feel supported, so we provide personalized care that aligns with your unique needs and preferences. Our team of experts specialize in patient-focused service and provide supportive care that empowers you to navigate your journey with confidence. We focus on managing symptoms, planning medical decisions in advance, and improving quality of life—always in alignment with your expressed wishes. The neuropalliative care service is led by Dr. Eileen J. Harrigan , one of only a handful of neuropalliative care doctors in the tri-state area applying the principles of palliative care to neurological illness. Our dedicated team of healthcare professionals is skilled in treating a wide range of serious neurologic conditions. These include, but are not limited to the following: of any kind, including and related disorders brain tumors amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and related conditions genetic neurologic diseases other serious neurologic illnesses Our treatment approach is as comprehensive as it is compassionate. Our offerings include the following: pain control symptom treatment transitioning to care that prioritizes quality of life As part of the interdisciplinary team approach, a social worker provides psychosocial support to patients and caregivers to assist with coping and managing the illness. Additionally, our social worker completes a comprehensive needs assessment to coordinate appropriate services and resources in the community, which can be helpful in navigating a diagnosis. These resources are unique for each patient but may include the following: support groups for patients and/or care partners educational groups for specific neurologic conditions mental health resources home care services, whether through insurance or private pay coordination of in-home medical care and equipment social day programs exercise classes for specific neurologic conditions medication management systems future plananing, including elder law attorney resources, Medicaid resources, and assisted living and nursing home placement assistance with life transitions, such as a referral to hospice services and end-of-life care Our social worker builds strong, trusting relationships with patients and their families while being a source of guidance and support for those being impacted by a serious neurologic condition. If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with a serious neurologic illness and are interested in our neuropalliative care services, please call to schedule an appointment. Referring physicians can also call to refer patients for our neuropalliative care services. Our neuropalliative care services are supported by the Fan Fox and Leslie R Samuels Foundation, Inc. 212-263-7225 At NYU Langone’s Dysautonomia Center, our experts are committed to improving the quality of life for people with by bridging the gap between basic science and clinical medicine. Our team provides comprehensive and compassionate care to help patients manage the daily challenges of living with autonomic dysfunction. Your autonomic nervous system is comprised of a network of neurons that transmits information from the brain and spinal cord to your heart, bladder, gastrointestinal tract, sweat glands, blood vessels, sexual organs, and pupils of your eyes. For the most part, the autonomic nervous system is not under your voluntary control. Dysautonomia occurs when this system malfunctions. The condition can happen in several different disorders. Learn more about the types of autonomic disorders Our neurologists provide comprehensive care to people with autonomic disorders. Our Dysautonomia Center is a unique facility that welcomes both adults and children, along with family members and others who are involved in the care of patients with autonomic disorders. As one of the few centers in the world specializing in autonomic disorders—both genetic and non-genetic, or sporadic, types—we strive to provide our patients with the most up-to-date and accurate information on their condition, prognosis, and treatment options. For more than 40 years, our center has been supported by the Familial Dysautonomia Foundation, Inc We also have an autonomic disorders research program and laboratory . Our team has made a number of discoveries that have shaped our understanding of autonomic disorders, allowing us to bring new treatment options to people living with this condition. We perform laboratory research and clinical trials, and train medical experts. Making an Appointment We focus on the treatment of autonomic dysfunction as the result of hereditary diseases, such as familial dysautonomia and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies, and neurodegenerative conditions, such as multiple system atrophy, , or neuropathies. If you fit this description, you may be evaluated at our outpatient clinic. Please ask your primary care physician to send you a referral letter, as well as your blood pressure readings and heart rate, measured while lying down and then standing. You must also complete our assessment forms regarding your symptoms and medical history that are sent to you upon contacting us. We ask that your physician send us a copy of your medical records by mail or fax. Medical records are not returned, so please do not send originals. After we receive this information, we contact you to discuss a possible visit to the clinic and a date for autonomic testing. What to Expect at Your First Appointment To ensure an efficient and effective visit, please make sure to bring the following materials to your first appointment or fax them before you arrive: copies of any CT scans, MRI scans, ultrasounds, or other imaging tests copies of any recent blood tests copies of sleep studies copies of autonomic tests copies of other relevant studies, such as Holter monitor, stress test, or blood pressure tests a list of all your current medications and their dosages On the day of your visit, you are asked to fill out additional questionnaires as well. During your visit, you meet with a Dysautonomia Center team member who asks you questions about your medical problem and performs a thorough physical and neurological examination. The information you provide and the results of the assessment are used to determine which autonomic tests are performed next. If you are eligible, you may be asked to sign a consent form to participate in our international registry for patients with autonomic disorders. All information is kept confidential. Our team has vast experience in diagnosing and providing treatment for the many disorders associated with autonomic dysfunction. Maria Alejandra Gonzalez-Duarte Briseno Autonomic Disorder Specialist Horacio Kaufmann The Highest Standard of Care At NYU Langone, we’re committed to providing the highest standard of care for you—and every day, we strive to set those standards even higher. After heart surgery, we get our patients home sooner than other hospitals—four days sooner for adult patients and four weeks sooner for pediatric patients. We have the highest success rates for adult heart surgery in the country and the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. We also have the highest lung transplant success rates in New York, and we get our patients off the organ waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. We bring this same standard of care to every interaction you have with us—from check-ups to emergency care to treating chronic health issues. Learn more about our High Standards for Healthcare Related Videos Reuniting Heart with Home Leaders in Lung Transplant Faster Stroke Care No. 1 in Brain Surgery. Any Way You Look At It. NYU Langone Virtual Urgent Care providers treat children ages 5 to 17 who are experiencing non-emergency conditions. in children include pink eye, diarrhea and vomiting, and fever. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, seven days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. For children ages 4 and younger, please schedule an appointment with the child’s pediatrician via . You can also search for an NYU Langone pediatrician near you Scheduling for Children Ages 5 to 11 A parent or guardian must schedule an appointment for a child ages 5 to 11, and must also be present during the video visit. To make an appointment, you will need proxy access for your child’s NYU Langone MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. Scheduling for Youth Ages 12 to 17 People ages 12 to 17 can schedule their own appointments, or their parent or guardian can do it for them. Appointments scheduled by a parent or guardian require proxy access to their child’s MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. The parent or guardian is not required to be present for the visit. For More Information To receive assistance with scheduling a Virtual Urgent Care visit for a child or teen, please call Virtual Urgent Care Cost & Insurance Options Your insurance plan may cover the cost of a visit for you or your child. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, 7 days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telehealth services under your benefit plan. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Accepted Insurance Plans Aetna Aetna EPO (AMEX employees) AETNA EPO (NYULH Employees) Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna International Aetna Medicare Advantage Aetna Open Access EPO Aetna Open Access HMO Aetna POS Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Aetna PPO Aetna Signature Administrators PPO Aetna Student Plan Allied Chesterfield Resources Inc Christian Brothers Services CoreSource Nippon Life of America—Aetna Nippon Life—Aetna Starmark WellNet Amida Care Amida Care Medicaid AnthemBCBSHealth Plus BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 1 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 2 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 3 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 4 BCBS Healthplus Gatekeeper exchange BCBS Healthplus Mediblue Advantage BCBS Healthplus NY Child Health Plus NY BCBS Healthplus NY Medicaid Managed Care NY BCBS Healthplus Special Needs Empire Mediblue Healthplus Dual AnthemBlueCrossBlue Shield Anthem BCBS CT HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway PPO Anthem BCBS CT PPO BCBS Blue Access EPO Large Group BCBS Blue Access EPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access GEPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access PPO Large Group BCBS EPO BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (LICH Employees) BCBS Federal Program BCBS Florida Blue Select BCBS HMO BCBS Indemnity BCBS Local 32BJ Employees BCBS Mediblue Medicare HMO BCBS Mediblue Medicare PPO BCBS Mediblue Select HMO/Extra HMO BCBS POS BCBS PPO BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO/EPO Small Group BCBS PPO (LICH Employees) New York Hotel Trades Centerlight Healthcare CenterLight Healthcare DIRECT CenterLight Healthcare PACE CenterLight Healthcare Select Centerlight Pace Medicare HMO CentersPlanForHealthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Medicaid Advantage Plus HMO D-SNP Cigna Apwu Health Plan Cigna Great West PPO Cigna HMO Cigna - Humana Cigna Indemnity Cigna Managed Care/POS Cigna Medicare Advantage Cigna NALC Cigna Open Access Cigna Open Access PPO Cigna Oscar Cigna PPO Cigna Premier Plus Great West HMO Kaiser Permanente MVP-Cigna Network Wellfleet-NYU Student Connecticare Connecticare Bridge Connecticare Commercial Connecticare CT Commercial E Elderplan Elderplan FIDA Elderplan Medicare Advantage Plan Emblem Emblem Select Care Bronze Small Group Emblem Select Care EPO Emblem Select Care Gold Small Group Emblem Select Care HMO Emblem Select Care Platinum Small Group Emblem Select Care PPO Emblem Select Care Silver Small Group F Fidelis Ambetter Fidelis Care Bronze Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Catastrophic Cvg Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Gold Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Native American Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Platinum Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Silver Exchange Fidelis Care Child Health Plus Fidelis Care Medicaid Managed Care Fidelis Essential Plan 1 Fidelis Essential Plan 2 Fidelis Essential Plan 3 Fidelis Essential Plan 4 Wellcare by Fidelis Care Medicare Health First Health PPO G GHI American Plan Administrators GHI CBP (City of New York Employees) GHI Emblem Health EPO GHI Emblem Health PPO GHI HMO GHI HMO Medicare GHI Medicare PPO GHI Medicare Supplement GHI Network Access - Benefit Services of PA GHI Network Access - Humana GHI Network Access - Total Plan Concepts IUOE Local 14-14B Wlny-TV Inc. H Hamaspik Choice Hamaspik Choice Medicare DSNP Healthfirst Health And Recovery Plan (Harp) Healthfirst Bronze Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Bronze Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Child Health Plus Healthfirst Essential Plan 1 & 2 Healthfirst Essential Plan 3 & 4 Healthfirst Gold Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Gold Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Green Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Medicaid Healthfirst Medicare Healthfirst Medicare/NYU Risk Healthfirst Personal Wellness Plan Healthfirst Platinum Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Platinum Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Silver Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Silver Total, Pro, Plus EPO Emblem Essential Plan 1 Emblem Essential Plan 2 Emblem Essential Plan 3 Emblem Essential Plan 4 HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Bridge HIP Child Health Plus HIP EPO HIP HMO HIP Medicaid Enhanced Care HIP Medicare Supplement HIP POS HIP PPO HIP Prime Basic Exchange HIP Prime Bronze HIP Prime Bronze Exchange HIP Prime Catastrophic Exchange HIP Prime Gold HIP Prime Gold Exchange HIP Prime Platinum HIP Prime Platinum Exchange HIP Prime Silver HIP Prime Silver Exchange HIP VIP Medicare Prime Vytra HMO HotelTrades Council Hotel Trades Council Humana Humana Medicare Advantage L Local 1199 Local 1199 - NYU Hospital Member Choice Local 1199 PPO LongevityHealth Plan Longevity Health Plan Medicare M Magnacare Magnacare PPO MedicaidofNew York NYS Medicaid Medicare Medicare Part A and B Medicare Part B MetroPlusHealth MetroPlusHealthBronze Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Child Health Plus MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 1 and 2 MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 3 and 4 MetroPlusHealth Gold MetroPlusHealth Gold Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Goldcare MetroPlusHealth Medicaid Managed Care MetroPlusHealth Medicare MetroPlusHealth Platinum Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Silver Plus Plan Exchange Multiplan Administrative Concepts AXA Assistance USA Beech Street PPO Diversified Administration Corporation Fiserv Health GEHA Global Excel Global Health Guardian Life Insurance Co Of America Health Net Of California Health Republic Of NJ Insurance Design Administrators Kaiser Foundation Meritain Health Multiplan PPO Multiplan—Capital Dist Phys Health Mutual Of Omaha Nippon Life Ins Co PHCS Professional Benefit Admin Qualcare Inc Screen Actors Guild Teamsters Allied Benefits US Life Insurance Company N NYSHIP-TheEmpire NYS Health Insurance Plan - The Empire Plan, Excelsior Plan, NY Student Employee Health Plan O Oxford Oxford Health Plans Freedom Oxford Health Plans Liberty Oxford Metro P PartnersHealthPlan Inc Partners Health Plan FIDA Partners Health Plan Medicaid Partners Health Plan Medicare POMCOInsurance Company POMCO Insurance Company Q Qualcare Inc. Qualcare Direct R Railroad Palmetto GBA Railroad Medicare RiverSpringHealth River Spring Medicare HMP SNP Sedgwick WTC World Trade Center - Sedgwick SeniorWhole Senior Whole Health Medicare Advantage T Tricare TriWest US Family Health Plan U United AARP Medicare Complete AARP Medicare Complete Mosaic Bind Benefits inc Oxford Health Plans Medicare Advantage UHC Medicare Complete Choice Regional PPO UMR United Health Care Charter United Healthcare AARP United Healthcare All Savers United Healthcare CareCore United Healthcare Choice United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Simon United Healthcare Compass Exchange United Healthcare EPO United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Golden Rule Insurance United Healthcare Healthscope United Healthcare HMO United Healthcare Indemnity United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Medicare United Healthcare Navigate United Healthcare Nexus United Healthcare Nexus (Amex Employees) United Healthcare (NY University Care Plan) United Healthcare NYU Care (NYULH Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare POS United Healthcare PPO United Healthcare Student Resources United Healthcare Student Resources (NYU) United Healthcare Value, Advantage and HDHP (New York University employees) UnitedHealthcare Choice (NY Power Authority Employees) V VACommunityCare Network VA CCN Optum Village VillageCare VNSChoice Advantage VNS Medicare Advantage VNS NY Choice Select Health W Wellcare WellCare Medicare WTCHealth NY Fire Department - WTC WTC Health Program Manual Verification Required These insurance plans cannot be verified electronically. After your visit is confirmed, you will need to call 877-698-2331 to speak with acustomer service representative who can verify your insurance plan Monday to Friday between 8:00AM to 7:00PM. Alternatively, you can also confirm with your insurance carrier if they cover Virtual Urgent Care visits. You may be charged the $126 self-pay fee if your insurance plan is not verified before your video visit. You can submit the receipt to your insurance carrier for reimbursement if eligible. Common Questions About Virtual Urgent Care service offers adults and children ages 5 and over same-day care for non-emergency medical concerns. A Virtual Urgent Care video visit takes place through the , which is accessed from your mobile phone, tablet, or computer. Here are some common questions about Virtual Urgent Care. How Do I Schedule a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment? Can I Have a Virtual Urgent Care Visit If I’m Not in New York? How Do I Make a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment for a Child? Services Provided Through Virtual Urgent Care Can Medications Be Prescribed? How Can I Obtain a Doctor’s Note for My Work or School? Accessing Virtual Urgent Care How Do I Connect to Virtual Urgent Care? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Mobile Device? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Computer? How Do I Cancel a Virtual Urgent Care Video Visit? What If I Experience Technical Issues? Follow-Up Care What If I Need Blood Work, Imaging Services, or Follow-Up Care After My Visit? What If I Have a Question After My Visit? You can make an appointment online through our website’s scheduling portal or through your or your child’s NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care services are available to patients who are physically located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida, and Nevada at the time of the visit. Anyone age 5 years or older can use Virtual Urgent Care. Adults must sign in using their own NYU Langone Health MyChart account. For children’s video visits, the parent or legal guardian’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account must be set up with healthcare proxy access to the child’s health record. If a parent or legal guardian does not already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, they receive an email or text with instructions on how to create an account after they have scheduled the appointment. If the parent or legal guardian does not already have healthcare proxy access to their child’s NYU Langone health record, they receive temporary access to complete the Virtual Urgent Care video visit. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider can prescribe medications as needed. Controlled substances and certain other medications cannot be prescribed during video visits. During your visit, let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know you need a note. After your visit, you can access the note from your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, sign in to begin the check-in process. If you do not already have an account, you must create one. You will be prompted to create an account when you schedule your video visit. Having an NYU Langone Health MyChart account allows you to save time when scheduling your appointments with NYU Langone providers by securely storing your personal information, such as your medical history and current medication, in your NYU Langone health record. If you need a doctor’s note for your employer or school, NYU Langone Health MyChart allows you to print one at your convenience. We can also help you reset your username and password . For technical questions, please call us at If you want to use a mobile phone or tablet to access Virtual Urgent Care, first download the NYU Langone Health mobile app from the App Store . With the app installed, you can then log in to NYU Langone Health MyChart and grant access to your microphone and camera. Although it’s not required, we recommend that you connect to Wi-Fi for a better video visit experience and to limit your data usage. If you do not have access to Wi-Fi, you can connect to the Virtual Urgent Care video visit through your wireless carrier. You need a desktop or laptop computer with a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection to access Virtual Urgent Care with a computer. Recent versions of Google Chrome, Apple Safari, and Mozilla Firefox web browsers are compatible with this service. If you have trouble connecting, please call us at To cancel a visit, go to the appointment details page in your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are late to a Virtual Urgent Care visit, we recommend that you cancel and reschedule for a later time. If your Virtual Urgent Care video gets disconnected, attempt to reconnect by logging back in to NYU Langone Health MyChart. For more information on troubleshooting your Virtual Urgent Care visit, please call us at If your Virtual Urgent Care provider recommends laboratory testing or an imaging exam, your provider enters an order into your . You can then schedule your test for a location of your choice. Your results can be found in your MyChart account, and we will contact you about any abnormal results. Learn more about scheduling imaging exams Appointments for and other respiratory tests—such as , strep, and throat culture—can be scheduled through the NYU Langone Health app. You can also complete your blood, urine, or stool laboratory tests at an NYU Langone location. If you prefer to use a non–NYU Langone location, please let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider may refer you to your primary care doctor for follow-up care, or to your local emergency department if you need more immediate care. If you need a specialist, our providers can help you find an NYU Langone doctor in the New York area or in Florida. You can send a message to your Virtual Urgent Care provider through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account or call us at We have doctors in Manhattan and Queens. 877-615-4477 Our orthopedic specialists provide an integrated team approach to the evaluation and treatment of a wide range of hip disorders occurring in adults and children. At NYU Langone’s Hip Center, part of , our team includes pediatric and adult orthopedic surgeons with different subspecialty backgrounds, as well as therapists and radiologists who share a specific interest in disorders of the hip. This unique collaborative approach allows us to provide care for all hip conditions, whether they are developmental, traumatic, or degenerative, and to take a collaborative approach to each person’s situation. Patients with complex conditions affecting the hip and those who are candidates for surgery may be discussed in a team conference, during which we plan personalized treatment for each patient. Our services for children are provided through Our Specialties and Services Our specialists have vast experience diagnosing and treating a broad range of conditions affecting the hip, including the following: hip dysplasia , or shallow hip socket femoral–acetabular impingement (FAI) hip labrum tears osteoarthritis, including hip arthritis in young adults and post-traumatic arthritis sports hip and groin injuries sports hernias avascular necrosis of the hip fractures of the hip and pelvis , including fractures that are slow to heal snapping hip syndrome In recent years, many innovative surgical and nonsurgical options have become available for the treatment of hip disorders in adults and children. Our surgical and nonsurgical treatment options include the following: hip injections, including platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections hip arthroscopy procedures for labrum tears and hip impingement hip and pelvis osteotomy, including Ganz Bernese osteotomy, also known as periacetabular osteotomy (PAO), for hip dysplasia core decompression and bone grafting for avascular necrosis of the hip We also specialize in minimally invasive, single-incision total hip replacements, such as anterior total hip replacement and robotic-assisted total hip replacement, which for many patients can be performed as an outpatient procedure. To schedule an appointment or to arrange a hospital transfer, call . You can also email us with any questions at nyhipcenter@nyulangone.org . Please allow 24 to 48 hours for a response from one of our physicians. Our skilled surgeons and radiologists provide specialized surgical and nonsurgical care for the treatment of all hip conditions. Thomas Youm Same-Day Hip Replacements May Offer Recovery at Home Hip Replacements Not Just for Grandparents Anymore Same Day Hip Replacement at NYU Langone Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone We have locations in Brooklyn and Manhattan. 347-377-3520 Community Medicine Program The care team at Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides healthcare to adults through several New York City homeless services locations. We meet the healthcare needs of the entire family through programs that focus on primary and specialized medical care, dentistry, and social support services. View All Family Health Centers , reaches people who otherwise would have limited access to healthcare. We provide primary and urgent care as well as vaccinations, women’s health services , and health education. We also offer behavioral health services including psychotherapy and psychiatric evaluation. In addition to our primary care services, we can connect our patients with doctors from more than 25 medical and surgical specialties substance use is available to residents of the shelter system and those who are formerly homeless and living in the city’s supportive housing. Services include group therapy, supportive therapy, and medication. We also provide referrals and navigation services to help people enter detox programs and addiction rehabilitation. Our care team includes doctors, psychiatrists, nurse practitioners, registered nurses, psychiatric nurses, social workers, HIV counselors, care managers, and substance abuse counselors. Community Medicine Locations Our clinics can be found at the following residential shelters for people who are experiencing housing issues, transitional living, or homelessness. Except where noted, services are available to residents only. Atlantic House Men’s Shelter, 2402 Atlantic Avenue, 347-377-4230 Barbara S. Kleiman Shelter for Men, 300 Skillman Avenue, 718-302-7366 (community health services available to anyone in need, regardless of housing status) Bedford Atlantic Shelter, 1322 Bedford Avenue, 929-457-5671 Magnolia House Women’s Shelter, 1424 Herkimer Street, 347-377-4231 Park Slope Women’s Shelter, 1402 Eighth Avenue (health navigation and support services only) Bowery Residents Committee at 317 Bowery, 718-210-5293 Bowery Residents Committee at 127 West 25th Street, 212-533-3281 , extension 8624 Keener Men’s Shelter, 64 Sunken Garden Loop, Wards Island, 347-377-4243 Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corporation, 120 East 32nd Street, 347-377-3254 (care available to anyone who is homeless) Project Find—Woodstock Hotel, 127 West 43rd Street, 212-221-5748 For general information about our community medicine services, please call Our doctors and nurse practitioners provide annual checkups, immunizations, and urgent care. Kristoffersen A. Acoba Ramin Asgary Mirabai K. Batra Carolina E. Braginsky GD Geraldine Dufort SG Seeta Ganpat CJ Cynthia Jean-Baptiste Teineicia Knights UM Ursina A. Mercado MO Marlene Othoniel ES Erica Scher Jennifer D. Silverberg Alicia Stivala Derrick J. Tolbert-Walker Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Find a Dentist & Schedule We have locations across New York City. 718-630-6875 Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers Dental care for adults, children, and people with special needs is available through locations as well as dental sites at our school-based centers. Our staff includes general dentists, pediatric dentists, dental specialists, and oral surgeons, as well as dental hygienists. We are the largest dental resident teaching facility in the United States. Dental school graduates work alongside our experienced faculty as they further their training. We provide preventive dental care to keep your teeth and gums clean and healthy. We treat cavities and perform dental procedures such as root canals, gum surgery, and dental implants. We also provide specialty dental care when it is needed, fit patients for crowns, bridges, and dentures, and provide treatment for oral–facial pain. Orthodontic care is available, as are cosmetic procedures such as tooth whitening and veneers. To ease the stress of dental treatment, sedation is available to our patients. Complex cases that require surgery and anesthesia can be treated at To make an appointment at any of these Family Health Center clinic locations, please call : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Hindi, Mandarin, Russian, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Arabic, French Creole, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Cantonese, Polish, and Spanish. : Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Mandarin. : Sunday appointments are available, and staff members are fluent in Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Spanish. We provide a full spectrum of dental care, including orthodontics and cosmetic dentistry, at Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice . Dental care for children is available at schools throughout New York City through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Our Team of Dentists Our dentists treat adults and children. JA John F. Albano DMD Dentist Charles D. Azzaretti DDS CB Craig Berry Peggy L. Budhu John P. Celona Pediatric Dentist Julie A. Cernigliaro Luzmarina Coffey GC Gina M. Cucchiara Marina Fainberg MF Michael J. Feldman Danielle H. Fridline BG Beeren Gajjar Lynn Gargano Robert S. Goldberger Barry S. Goodman Betty Greenspan Meeta Grewal SH Sol D. Haber Plastic Surgery Dentist Bethany P. Harris DDS, MPH Susan Hernandez Jonathan M. Kamen Daniel J. Kane NK Nicholas S. Katchen View All 46 Doctors & 46 COVID-19 Pandemic Triggers Pediatric Dental Health Crisis Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Webinar Series at NYU Langone hosts hour-long webinars throughout the year. In the webinars, our experts discuss topics including the latest treatments for , research advances in the field, and managing life with the condition. MSWebinars@NYULangone.org 646-501-4797 Social Work Services at the Fresco Institute Providing multifaceted support for patients and families is part of what we do every day at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone. Social workers help us make that happen. As part of our patient-centered care model, the Fresco Institute offers integrated, –specific social work support and wellness services for patients and their caregivers and families, with onsite social workers who are part of the care team. Our social workers are specialized and uniquely qualified to help you, your loved ones, and your care partners adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s and other . We provide comprehensive assessments and develop support plans that fit your needs and goals, and address how these may change over time. We target your strengths, identify areas of concern, and tap into a broad range of resources for referral to help you to cope, adapt, and live well. We also provide disease-specific education and lead support groups for patients and care partners onsite and in the community. Our social work team members are leaders in the field and are national innovators in the development of Parkinson’s disease–specific support and wellness programs for patients and families in the clinic, in the community, and in home. All patients at the Fresco Institute can access our social work services. If you are interested in learning more about our social work program or to schedule an appointment, please contact our social worker at Parkinson’s Disease Support Group The Fresco Institute offers two support group programs—one for active people with Parkinson’s disease, and another for care partners of people with Parkinson’s disease. Trained and experienced professionals from our social work team lead the psychosocial groups, which are offered at no charge. An intake interview is required for support group participation. For more information or to schedule an intake interview, please contact our support and community services team at Social work support services are made possible through the generous support of the Parkinson’s Foundation and the Paolo and Marlene Fresco Foundation. Parkinson’s Disease Group Seminars We offer monthly educational group seminars that provide holistic education and resources for people who have been diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease and their caregivers. Skilled and experienced professional nurses facilitate the groups, which are open to the community. Discussion topics include current research about Parkinson’s disease, falls prevention, pain management, healthy sleep hygiene, maintaining relationships and sexual health, and how physical, occupational, and speech therapy can help you. To RSVP, or to learn more about our monthly educational group seminars, please contact our registered nurse at Our Fresco Institute Care Team At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, we believe that patients are best cared for by an expert and dedicated team of healthcare professionals who work together to enhance your quality of life. The team attends to your physical, emotional, and social needs. We are committed to providing comprehensive and compassionate care through every stage of the disease. Your core care team consists of neurologists, nurses, and social workers. We also collaborate with occupational therapists, physical therapists, speech–language pathologists, and palliative care providers who help focus on quality-of-life issues. Neurologists are physicians who specialize in disorders of the brain and nervous system. A specialist is a neurologist who has completed additional training in movement disorders, such as . These doctors assess your medical status, prescribe and monitor medications, and make referrals and recommendations for care. The social worker at the Fresco Institute is a healthcare specialist who help patients, care partners, and families adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. Our social worker is uniquely qualified to assess psychosocial needs, provide psychological counseling, help patients to understand and implement their treatment plans, assist in long-term planning, and make referrals to support and wellness resources in the community and in the home. Learn more about our Nurses The team at the Fresco Institute includes a registered nurse who assesses individual concerns and difficulties, educate patients and their caregivers, and provide referrals to recommended programs and services. Our nurse assists in the assessment of patients’ physical and psychological status and monitors the effects and side effects of medications. Services Available at Rusk Rehabilitation Many of our services are available through , where people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders can receive the physical rehabilitation that is an important part of the treatment plan. Physiatry Physiatrists are physicians who specialize in physical medicine and rehabilitation. They oversee your treatment team and coordinate your physical and medical care. A physiatrist can monitor your response to therapy and make adjustments in medications or your treatment plan to promote optimum functioning and enhance your quality of life. Occupational therapists use exercise, adaptive devices, and modifications to your usual routines to help you preserve motor function and retain your independence for as long as possible. Our therapies help people perform activities of daily living, including feeding, bathing, grooming, toileting, dressing, bed and chair transfers, writing, and workplace activities. We can also help you with issues such as balance and coordination, as well as work with you to make sure you have the skills and adaptations necessary to live safely at home. When Parkinson’s disease affects gait and mobility, our physical therapists can help. We create individual and goal-specific exercise programs and therapies that focus on improving balance, strength, posture, flexibility, and endurance. Physical therapists also help families by teaching safe, effective, and efficient ways to provide a loved one with the physical assistance he or she needs. If you develop issues related to speech, voice, memory, and swallowing, our speech–language pathologists can help. The speech–language pathology program at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation provides treatment. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Swallowing Disorders Program provides evaluation and treatment focused on improving swallowing function. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Community Events hosts regular educational and community events throughout the year for people who have , as well as their partners, family, and friends. For more information, please call or email Kathy-An Glynn at Kathyan.Glynn@NYULangone.org The team at the MS Palliative Care Center, part of NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, provides supportive care to improve the lives of people who have MS and their families. Working in an outpatient setting, our palliative care specialists are dedicated to helping people at any age or stage of the condition. Palliative care can help relieve pain and other MS symptoms and address the side effects of treatment. Our goal is to enhance quality of life through individualized care. We specialize in caring for people with MS who experience high levels of distress, difficult-to-manage symptoms, or disease progression. Working with your neurologist, we provide personalized, goal-oriented care matching your goals and values, and we also assist with treatment decisions. Our team works with you and your family to support physical, emotional, and social needs related to your condition. We address common MS symptoms and side effects, including anxiety, depression, and fatigue. People experiencing fatigue or coping with the stress of MS may benefit from integrative care and services. We refer patients to NYU Langone’s for psychological, physical, occupational, speech, and pelvic floor therapies. Additionally, we assist with gaining access to social resources and spiritual support. Patients and families may receive guidance to navigate difficult decisions. As specialists in advanced care planning, we empower patients to express their values and care preferences, with the goal of honoring their decisions. We can assist with healthcare proxy forms medical orders for life-sustaining treatment Our MS-Support Team We are a special team of board-certified nurse practitioners (NPs) . Working with members of each patient’s care team, our NPs provide an extra layer of support and care coordination. A referral from your doctor is required to schedule an appointment with the MS-Support team. After receiving the referral, a member of our team will reach out to you to schedule an appointment. We offer same-day, next-day, and telemedicine appointments. Experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, part of NYU Langone’s , provide treatment, counseling, and education for people with this condition and their families. Neuromyelitis optica, also known as neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), is an autoimmune condition in which the immune system mistakenly damages healthy nervous system tissue. In most cases of NMOSD, aquaporin-4 antibody, also known as NMO antibody, can be detected in the blood. NMO antibodies can damage the optic nerves, spinal cord, and sometimes the brain. Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody associated disorder (MOGAD) is a recently described autoimmune disease that may resemble NMOSD, but requires a different treatment. NMOSD is a rare disorder, affecting approximately 16,000 people in the United States. MOGAD is similarly rare. Our doctors provide treatment for people with NMOSD and MOGAD in children and adults. Our center has evaluated more than 350 people with these rare conditions. NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes are often mistaken for , a more common central nervous system autoimmune disorder that has similar symptoms. Standard MS treatments can worsen NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes, so accurate diagnosis is very important. If proper treatment is started soon after symptom onset, prolonged remission that stops the disease from progressing is realistic. The Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program is led by Ilya Kister, MD , who has extensive experience treating NMOSD and MOG antibody disorder, and is a leader in research into these conditions. Lauren B. Krupp, MD , and her fellow clinicians see pediatric patients who have these conditions. Diagnosing NMOSD Diagnosing NMOSD starts with a detailed history of the person’s symptoms. During an NMOSD attack, or relapse, people with the condition might experience eye pain; vision loss; numbness, weakness, or paralysis in the arms and legs; and loss of bladder and bowel control. A neurological examination is performed to determine whether relapse has occurred. If NMOSD relapse is suspected, an of the brain, optic nerve, and spinal cord might be performed to look for the hallmark lesions of the disease. NMO and MOG antibodies will be tested with blood tests that are usually sent out to a specialized laboratory. Treatment for NMOSD and MOGAD Care for people with NMOSD and MOGAD is provided by our dedicated team, which includes neurologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, a neuro-urologist, nurse coordinators, social workers, occupational therapists, and psychologists. The key to preventing disability in NMOSD and MOGAD is in preventing relapses. Currently there are three U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapies for NMOSD—satralizumab (brand name: Enspryng), eculizumab (Soliris), and inebilizumab (Uplizna). In addition, our doctors have extensive experience with off-label therapies that are highly effective such as rituximab (Rituxan) and tocilizumab (Actemra). For MOGAD relapse prevention, there are no FDA-approved treatments. Several medications are used off label, including intravenous immunoglobulins, subcutaneous immunoglobulins, and oral immunosuppressant drugs such as mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept). Our center is currently participating in a clinical trial, which, if successful, could lead to approval of the first drug for MOGAD. During relapse, we prescribe intravenous steroids to help speed recovery. This may be combined with plasmapheresis, which is a way to remove disease-triggering antibodies from the blood. People with NMOSD and MOGAD may experience symptoms caused by damage to the nervous tissue. A variety of medications, as well as non-medication approaches, are available to alleviate common symptoms of these diseases. Infusion therapies can be provided at the infusion centers at , and other NYU Langone-affiliated infusion sites. For relapses requiring inpatient care, specialized care is provided at Tisch Hospital. Expert inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation therapy is available at Clinical Research in NMOSD and MOGAD NYU Langone doctors are among the leaders in clinical research into better treatments for this rare disorder, and have published widely on the subject of NMOSD. Our patients can contribute to research into NMOSD through clinical trials. We are currently participating in Meteoroid , clinical trial into a promising new treatment for MOGAD called satralizumab. To learn more about our research program, please email Dr. Kister at Ilya.Kister@NYULangone.org To make an appointment for an evaluation by one of our experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, please call . To learn more about our research or for other questions, please contact Dr. Kister at Waiting: It’s one of the hardest jobs of someone in need of a lung transplant. At NYU Langone, we get people off the waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. This, along with our commitment to providing the highest standard of care, makes us the No. 1 lung transplant program in the United States. , part of the Two million brain cells are lost every minute a stroke goes untreated. So, we deliver lifesaving treatment 10 minutes faster than other New York hospitals. Our team of neurologists, neuroradiologists, nurses, and EMTs move with unparalleled efficiency from the second you arrive at the hospital. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25. Learn more about our Comprehensive Stroke Center Read about our No. 1 ranking Read about our High Standards of Care In brain surgery, every millimeter matters. So, we use VR to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and AI to inform real-time decisions during surgery—to deliver the highest survival rates in the nation. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to Learn more about our Department of Neurosurgery Military Family Center Team The care team at the NYU Langone Military Family Center offers support and treatment for veterans and their families experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) substance use disorder , and other mental health conditions. Directors Charles R. Marmar, MD Chair of Psychiatry | Psychiatry Internationally recognized for his expertise in post-traumatic stress, Dr. Marmar treats veterans, including those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, who have combat-related conditions. He also works with refugees and earthquake survivors. J. David Stiffler, MD Medical Director | Psychiatry Dr. Stiffler is medical director of the Military Family Center. Ariane Ling, PhD Assistant Director | Psychology Dr. Ling is assistant director of the Military Family Center, a clinical psychologist, and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. Dr. Ling provides integrative, culturally attuned, and individually tailored evidence-based psychotherapy to individuals and couples experiencing substance use difficulties, PTSD, depression, anxiety, and adjustment and psychosocial stressors. Clinical Staff William Folberth, PsyD Dr. Folberth is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in working with children, adolescents, and families who have been impacted by trauma and has extensive experience providing cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) to address a wide range of anxiety and mood disorders. He has presented at the annual convention of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America on the implementation of evidence-based treatments to treat PTSD in children and adolescents. BJ Brittney S. Jordan, PsyD Dr. Jordan is a clinical psychologist. AP Amy P. Palfrey, PhD Dr. Palfrey is a clinical psychologist. Justin R. Pomerenke, PhD Dr. Pomerenke is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His training emphasized the treatment and research of PTSD and co-occurring conditions such as substance use disorder and insomnia. Dr. Pomerenke provides individually tailored cognitive behavioral treatments for PTSD, anxiety, substance use disorders, and depression. He has specialized training in a variety of evidence-based therapies, including exposure therapies such as exposure and response prevention for obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) and prolonged exposure for PTSD, cognitive processing therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, and dialectical behavior therapy. Amanda M. Spray, PhD Clinic Director | Psychology Dr. Spray is a clinical psychologist and clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry. At the center, Dr. Spray provides individual cognitive behavioral psychotherapy to adults and specializes in trauma, health psychology, and adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Anne G. Torell, PhD Training Director | Psychiatry Dr. Torell is a clinical psychologist. Support Staff RM RoviSta Maria, MA Program Coordinator Ms. Sta. Maria is the clinic’s program associate, responsible for providing administrative and program support for staff, in addition to being one of the initial points of contact for incoming and existing clients. She holds a master’s degree in industrial/organizational psychology from the CUNY School of Professional Studies. JZ Jun Zhang Database Analyst Ms. Zhang is the clinic’s database analyst. She provides comprehensive data management support for all initiatives at the clinic. She holds a master’s degree in information systems from NYU. Complete the form below to create your NYU Langone Health MyChart account and get started with your orthopedic second opinion. Confirm Eligibility You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We arenot currently able to offer this online service outside of the U.S., or in the following states: Alabama,Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Nevada, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon,you can browse our I live in the U.S. and am not currently located in one of the following states: AL, AK, IA, ME, MD, MI, NM,NV, ND, RI, SC, and WY. Personal Information Date of Birth Month (MM) Day (DD) Year (YYYY) Legal Sex Why do we ask for this? We are committed to making sure all patients feel safe and respected. We understand that not everyone’s legal sex is the same as their gender identity. We ask about legal sex because it is necessary for insurance billing, and assists us in linking this visit to prior visits. Please select the sex listed on your State ID and/or Insurance Card. You will have the opportunity to provide more detailed information on your Gender Identity and Pronouns later in the registration process. Female Male State Phone Type Mobile Work At NYU Langone we provide care for the tiniest of hearts, and we have the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. After surgery, we get children home four weeks sooner than other hospitals. and how our heart surgery program is No. 1 in the state, according to ’s “Best Children’s Hospitals” 2023–24. Watch Video The Highest Standard of Care. For You. We strive for excellence in everything we do. Expect more every