of our educational programming is DanceMedU , an accredited online course series. We offer Principles of Dance Medicine: Clinical Management of the Dancer Patient for healthcare professionals and the dance community. live education courses for healthcare and dance professionals provide evidence-based research findings, explore dance medicine as a potential career path, and provide education on injury prevention and dancer wellness. Our physical therapists have special expertise in treating dancers. Patricia R. Cavaleri Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapist Sarah E. Edery-Altas MH Mark Hall MSPT Heather Heineman Rebecca Kesting Marla Mcreynolds-Waldron Sarah Plumer-holzman Giovanna M. Salerno Emily R. Sandow Melvin Varghese Donald J. Rose David S. Weiss 14 The New York Daily News: Harkness Center Helps Injured Dancers Get Back into the Spotlight Read More from the New York Daily News Dance Magazine: I Resolve To... Read More from Dance Magazine Dance Teacher Magazine: Safe, Sensational Flexibility Read More from Dance Teacher Magazine Dance Informa: Dance Injury Prevention 101: Your Friendly Neighborhood Athletic Trainer Read More from Dance Informa Refinery29: The Dancer’s Hack to Preventing Workout Injuries Read More from Refinery 29 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Dance Clinic 318 East 23rd Street, New York, NY, 10010 212-598-7613 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Biomechanics Research Laboratory 380 Second Avenue, 6th Floor, New York, NY, 10010 Harkness Center for Dance Injuries—Physical Therapy Clinic 614 Second Avenue, Suite 2G, New York, NY, 10016 , we use advanced technologies and new kinds of catheter techniques, including those developed from our own research, to eliminate chronic heart rhythm disorders deemed untreatable by other centers. Cardiac electrophysiologist Dr. Larry A. Chinitz performs surgery. During your initial evaluation at the Heart Rhythm Center, our experienced team determines the impact of the , or abnormal heart rhythm, and whether treatment is needed. For some people with heart rhythm disorders, no treatment may be required. For others, medication and lifestyle changes can be effective. When necessary, catheter-based treatments or cardiac devices may be recommended. Treatments for Heart Rhythm Conditions We provide the following medical interventions to treat heart rhythm disorders. Catheter Ablation Catheter ablation is a minimally invasive way to eliminate a variety of arrhythmias. Doctors use a special catheter to deliver radiofrequency energy that can correct the abnormal heartbeat signals causing the arrhythmia without having to perform open heart surgery. For many people, this procedure cures an arrhythmia without requiring additional medication or surgery. A pacemaker is used to treat people who have a slow heart rate, known as . NYU Langone is one of the sites for an international clinical trial evaluating the next generation of leadless pacemakers, which eliminate the wires that can be associated with infections and other complications. Dr. Larry Chinitz , director of the Heart Rhythm Center, is the national principal investigator for the trial. Left Atrial Appendage Occlusion Device The left atrial appendage occlusion device (LAAOD) reduces the risk of in people with by stopping blood clots from traveling out of the heart and to the brain. This treatment, which includes the WATCHMAN™ device and others undergoing clinical development, are recommended for patients who are unable to tolerate anticoagulation therapy. Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillator implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) sends an electric shock to convert serious , such as tachycardia and fibrillation, back to a normal, slower, and regular heartbeat. ICDs significantly reduce the risk of death in people with these types of ventricular arrhythmias. These devices are now available in models that are transvenous, or inserted through a vein, and subcutaneous, or placed under the skin. Medication and Lifestyle Management For some people, medication and lifestyle changes can reduce symptoms and improve quality of life. You may be prescribed medications that lower blood pressure and reduce your risk of blood clots. We recommend a heart-healthy diet and regular exercise for all of our patients. We also have an active screening process to identify patients with obstructive sleep apnea , a cardiac risk factor. Follow-Up Care for Heart Rhythm Conditions For patients who receive a pacemaker or defibrillator, our device and arrhythmia monitoring center is staffed by clinicians who coordinate care between outpatient management and hospital-based procedures. Our team is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In rare cases, the leads that deliver electrical energy from a pacemaker or ICD to the heart need to be removed. The Heart Rhythm Center is a leader in lead extraction and management , and one of only four centers in the United States that perform extractions. At the Sports Performance Center at NYU Langone, we offer performance testing and programs to help you maximize your athletic ability, movement efficiency, and musculoskeletal conditioning while reducing the risk of injury. We also offer and special programs for Our performance testing programs provide our experts with the information they need to create your personalized fitness program. Resting Metabolic Rate The resting metabolic rate test determines the amount of energy, or calories, your body uses at rest. To determine this measurement, a plastic hood is placed safely on your head and face. This controlled environment allows us to analyze how much oxygen your body uses and how much carbon dioxide your body produces to determine caloric expenditure and energy substrate utilization in a resting state. We provide a review of your test results and recommendations based on your caloric needs. This service can also complement your treatment plan as part of NYU Langone’s Aerobic Capacity Test (VO2max) The aerobic capacity test (VO2max) measures aerobic capacity. It tells you the maximal rate at which your heart and lungs are able to provide oxygen to exercising muscles, and how much work your muscles are able to do while using that oxygen as the primary energy source. The aerobic capacity test is the leading indicator of aerobic fitness and health status. You’ll learn just how efficient you are at using energy supplies for a long run, ride, or swim. You’ll also discover which energy systems you need to work on to improve your performance. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Lactate Threshold Testing Lactate threshold testing is for the athlete looking to perfect his or her training. This test determines the point at which your body can no longer supply oxygen for energy. This leads to increased lactate production, the primary marker for fatigue onset. This is used to determine baseline fitness and training zones to improve performance, as well as to track training program effectiveness. To register, please email Anaerobic Power Assessment The anaerobic power assessment is essential for those wanting to improve or optimize their power and speed. Athletes exert maximal force over a short period of time to assess the body’s ability to generate the power needed for optimal performance in their sport. Testing modality is selected based on the athlete’s sport. To register, please email Sports Performance Evaluation Sports performance evaluation is designed for athletes of all ages and abilities who want to improve performance and prevent injury. The evaluation is customized to your specific sport and includes the following: baseline measurements, including resting heart rate, body composition, and blood pressure biomechanical video analysis to examine specific characteristics of body mechanics that affect performance and are essential to your sport assessment of strength and flexibility using the sport-specific screens, custom developed for each sport energy system utilization assessments using aerobic or anaerobic capacity tests assessment of lung function using research-grade testing equipment maximal muscular strength and endurance test as applicable to a specific sport We provide performance evaluation for athletes in all sports, with special expertise in the following: triathlons hockey golf soccer basketball football martial arts skiing and snowboarding tennis Based on information gathered during the evaluation, our specialists provide training recommendations and techniques to improve performance and prevent potential injuries. To register, please email Duration: 120 minutes Return to Sports Evaluation After Lower Extremity Injury This return to sports evaluation is designed for people who are questioning whether it is safe for them to return to their sport after an injury or surgery to their hip, knee, or ankle. The comprehensive assessment includes the following: a landing error score system that determines whether athletes show neuromuscular or strength deficits during drop–jump movements a step-down test that determines hip and core stability in single leg movement a hop test that compares stability, strength, and movement control between the right and left legs a modified Bunkie test, a type of functional strength test, that identifies which planes of stability and strength are limited a Biodex isokinetic test that compares muscle strength balance of the right and left legs After conducting these tests, our specialists identify any risk of increased injury and advise whether athletes are ready to return to their sport. To register, please email Return to Sports Evaluation After Upper Extremity Injury This return to sports evaluation is designed for people who are questioning whether it is safe for them to return to their sport after an injury or surgery to their arm, forearm, wrist, and hand. The comprehensive evaluation includes the following: assessment of wrist, elbow, and shoulder mobility dynamic stability assessment upper body strength assessment functional performance assessment After conducting these tests, our specialists identify any risk of increased injury and advise whether athletes are ready to return to their sport. Learn more about our return to sports after upper extremity injury assessment To register, please call Duration of post-evaluation review: 30 minutes Biomechanical Analysis Biomechanical analysis simulates movements of your sport to develop a training program to prevent injury and enhance performance. Athletes are filmed using Dartfish Video Motion software to capture joint angles and body kinematics at each phase of movement. Our specialists also perform an FMS™ to identify asymmetries, weakness, and limitations. Based on results, you are provided with exercise recommendations and techniques to improve performance and prevent potential injuries. To register, please email Biomechanical Analysis Re-Evaluation Six to eight weeks after completing a biomechanical analysis of an athlete’s performance in a specific sport, we recommend that the athlete return so that we can evaluate progress as performance improves. To register, please email Titleist Evaluation The Titleist Performance Institute™ (TPI) golf movement screen is a performance-based physical movement screen specifically designed for golfers. Clients are taken through 12 golf-related movement patterns in order to identify faulty stability patterns and altered mobility that may impact the accuracy and efficiency of a golfer’s swing. Based on results, corrective exercises are given to help prevent injury and improve the golfer’s game. The screen is designed for golfers at all levels. To register, please email Sport-Specific Training We offer athletes at all levels of competition customized, sport-specific training to maximize sports performance. We offer 60-minute single sessions or packages of up to 16 sessions. To register, please email Sports Nutritional Assessments Our registered dietitians can help you achieve your personal fitness goals. Your diet is analyzed to create a personalized food plan aimed at optimizing health and athletic performance. Nutrient timing, meal composition, portions, menus, recipes, and practical suggestions are crafted to meet each athlete’s unique needs. Registered dietitians work closely with you to monitor and update nutrient and diet recommendations. Sports Psychology Our sports psychologist focuses on optimizing individual athletic performance. Goals include the following: improving focus and concentration removing any interference that impedes performance cultivating factors that can enable peak performance understanding how to approach activity from a holistic perspective developing mindfulness, relaxation, and joyful performance promoting awareness of automatic response patterns learning strategies to compensate for obstacles to optimal performance The client receives individualized short-term, intermediate, and long-term goals as well as techniques to confidently and successfully address specific goals. Goal programming includes weekly evaluation of progress, online training logs, and a personality inventory to identify the best way to increase motivation and improve attitude. Sport psychology services benefit novice to elite athletes and teams. To register, please email Duration of sports psychology assessment: 60 minutes Duration of sports psychology follow-up: 50 minutes Blood Flow Restriction Training Blood flow restriction training is a rehabilitation technique performed by our experienced clinicians that can accelerate muscle healing following an injury. During a therapy session, your rehabilitation specialist guides you through a series of exercises that incorporate blood flow restriction using safely controlled tourniquet pressure. This technique reduces recovery time so you are able to start exercising sooner in your rehabilitation journey. It’s not recommended for people who are pregnant or have a history of deep vein thrombosis, varicose veins, or untreated heart disease. You do not need a referral from a doctor, but our therapists perform an evaluation to make sure this therapy is right for you. Anti-Gravity Treadmill Training Anti-gravity treadmill training is a rehabilitation technique that allows you to walk or run without bearing your full weight so you can exercise without exacerbating an injury. This training technique can also help you improve form and speed. During a therapy session, your specialist determines how intense you want your workout to be, based on your weight, medical history, and goals. It is recommended for people who are interested in maintaining cardiovascular fitness and range of motion as they heal from a lower-extremity injury. To register, please email Duration: 30 or 60 minutes We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. Doctors at NYU Langone’s Pancreatic Disease Program are recognized leaders in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the pancreas and caring for people who have or are at risk for these conditions. We treat you as a whole person—with the aim not only to improve your health but also to support your wellbeing. Our team specializes in treating people with benign and malignant, or cancerous, diseases of the pancreas, including pancreatitis , pancreatic cysts, pancreatic tumors, and—in close collaboration with our team of experts at — . In addition, we offer genetic testing and counseling for people who may be at increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer due to family history or other risk factors. Personalized, Comprehensive Care Our multidisciplinary team of experts includes gastroenterologists and advanced endoscopists, pancreatic surgeons, oncology specialists, radiologists, and others who bring a patient-centered, comprehensive approach to your care. We use the most sophisticated testing to provide you with a timely, accurate, and specific diagnosis, which is essential for effective treatment. We then develop a treatment plan that is tailored to your individual health and needs. Preventive care is a cornerstone of our mission. Our team is expert in advanced endoscopic and surgical procedures that can prevent precancerous cysts from progressing to cancer, as well as strategies that help prevent the recurrence of pancreatitis and other conditions. Advanced Treatment Options Because we are part of a world-class academic medical center, we offer the latest and most innovative medical and surgical treatments as well as the newest therapies being evaluated in clinical trials. Our highly skilled advanced endoscopy team performs state-of-the-art endoscopic procedures to diagnose and treat pancreatitis, pancreatic cysts, and some pancreatic tumors. Some pancreatic conditions may require surgery. Our internationally renowned hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeons are among the most experienced in the world. Together they have performed thousands of complex surgeries, including pancreaticoduodenectomy or Whipple procedure—a highly specialized procedure to remove cancer from the head of the pancreas—as well as total, distal, and central pancreatectomies. In addition, members of our surgical team are prominent in the field for their skill and expertise in removing advanced pancreatic tumors typically considered inoperable. Our team is experienced in minimally invasive surgical procedures, including robotic-assisted and laparoscopic approaches, as well as traditional open surgery—all with excellent patient outcomes. We also specialize in pancreas auto-islet transplantation for treatment of chronic pancreatitis. In this procedure the diseased pancreas is removed, but the islet cells—cells that produce insulin—are returned to your liver. An auto-islet transplant reduces the risk of developing diabetes after a pancreatectomy. Treatment for Pancreatic Cancer For people who have pancreatic cancer, our multidisciplinary team provides the most advanced diagnostic and treatment options available. We tailor every therapeutic regimen we use, including surgery, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, and radiation therapy, to each person’s specific health condition and needs. Clinical Support Services The NYU Langone’s Pancreatic Disease Program team understands that pancreatic diseases can affect different aspects of your health and wellbeing. We offer a comprehensive approach to your care that includes pain management, nutrition counseling, and psychosocial support, which addresses the behavioral, social, and psychological aspects of living with pancreatic disease. Our experts are at the forefront of using clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of promising new therapies and interventions for pancreatic conditions. People receiving care through our program gain access to these studies. Your doctor may discuss whether enrolling in a clinical trial is right for you. View our active trials in the following areas: For questions about our pancreatic cancer clinical trials, contact Pamela Baga, NP, at Pamela.Baga@NYULangone.org or Chelsea Garcia, senior clinical research coordinator, at Chelsea.Garcia@NYULangone.org For questions about clinical trials for other pancreatic conditions, contact Emil Agarunov at Emil.Agarunov@NYULangone.org Pancreatic Disease Research Our team is helping to advance our understanding of pancreatic diseases, discover ways to detect them earlier, and design new, more effective treatments. As part of these efforts, we offer every person we treat the opportunity to participate in our long-term research. The Pancreatic Disease Program is led by gastroenterologist and advanced endoscopy specialist Tamas A. Gonda, MD ; medical oncologist ; and surgeon Christopher Wolfgang, MD, PhD Sports Performance Center Team The Sports Performance Center team is made up of experts with a depth and breadth of knowledge and experience in exercise physiology, sports psychology, and nutrition. Heather A. Milton, MS, RCEP, CSCS, Exercise Physiologist Supervisor Ms. Milton is a board-certified clinical exercise physiologist, Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS ), and Certified Cancer Exercise Trainer (CET). She develops specialized programs to help athletes reach their maximum potential and ability. She also creates unique and motivational programs to inspire health and fitness clients, and designs injury prevention programs for at-risk athletes. In addition to performing a variety of metabolic and biomechanical evaluations, Ms. Milton is a founding member of the Return to Sports program and the . Ms. Milton conducts multiple research projects for peer-reviewed medical journals and is a clinician with the Running Lab and helps run their strength and conditioning classes for runners and golfers. N’Namdi Nelson, CSCS, Exercise Physiologist Mr. Nelson is a certified strength and conditioning specialist (CSCS®) and exercise physiologist and is a corrective exercise and performance enhancement specialist. His specialty is developing challenging and comprehensive fitness programs to help athletes of all levels reach their maximum potential. He also creates corrective exercise programs that help his clients prevent injury. Mr. Nelson’s experience as a former semi-pro football player gives him a unique perspective on health and wellness. In addition to creating individualized fitness programs, Mr. Nelson conducts metabolic and biomechanical evaluations at the Samantha Heller, MS, RDN, Clinical Nutritionist Ms. Heller is a registered dietitian and exercise physiologist. She has expertise in chronic diseases such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease. Her clinical interests also include weight management and sports. She is the host of “Samantha Heller’s Health and Nutrition Show” on SiriusXM Radio’s Doctor Radio station and author of The Only Cleanse: A 14-Day Natural Detox Plan to Jump-Start a Lifetime of Health . Ms. Heller is a clinician with the Running Lab. Nicole Lund, MPH, RDN, Clinical Nutritionist Ms. Lund is a registered dietitian, adjunct professor, and certified personal trainer. She has expertise in sports and performance nutrition as well as in training clients with various clinical and musculoskeletal conditions. Ms. Lund is a clinician with the Running Lab and USA Nordic. Hunter Carter, MA, CPT, CES, Exercise Physiologist Mr. Carter holds a master’s degree in exercise physiology and is a certified personal trainer, corrective exercise specialist, USA Track and Field Level 1 coach, and Functional Movement Systems practitioner. He teaches the Strength and Conditioning for Runners Total Body Wellness for Active Older Adults classes, conducts metabolic testing, and designs custom training programs for a diverse population. As a lifelong mover and former professional dancer, Mr. Carter aims to get clients fit for performance in any field they endeavor. Bonnie Marks, PsyD, Staff Psychologist Dr. Marks specializes in mindfulness and recovery from injury, sports psychology, and meditation. She performs neuropsychological evaluations, cognitive remediation, and psychotherapy, and she leads presentations on integrative medicine. She serves as a guide for athletes with disabilities during the New York City Marathon and volunteers with the USA Women’s Wrestling Team as a consultant on performance issues. Belkys DeJesus, Administrative Assistant Ms. DeJesus coordinates all medical and sports nutrition visits. She also helps organize, set up, and schedule strength and conditioning and wellness classes. She received the NYU Langone Team Spotlight Award in 2005. Jolan Browne, PT, DPT , OCS, Senior Physical Therapist Wil Colón, PT, DPT , MS, SCS, Clinical Specialist Jennifer Gallinaro, DPT, PT, OCS, Program Manager Dr. Gallinaro is certified by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties as a clinical specialist in orthopedics. Her areas of specialty and clinical interests include postoperative shoulder rehabilitation and golf- and running-related injuries. A founding member of the Running Lab, Dr. Gallinaro conducts video analysis. She also is a founding member of the Golf Lab. Mira T. Kaufman, PT, DPT, OCS, Senior Physical Therapist James Koo, DPT, OCS, SCS, FAAOMPT, COMT, Supervisor Dr. Koo is an outpatient physical therapy supervisor. He is certified as a clinical specialist in both orthopedic and sports physical therapy by the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties. He is a certified orthopedic manual therapist and a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopedic Manual Therapists. Dr. Koo maintains an active clinical practice, specializing in orthopedic and sports manual physical therapy and subspecializing in treating runners and triathletes. A founding member of the Running Lab, he performs video analysis and moderates educational sessions. He also is a founding member of the Golf Lab. Dr. Koo has a black belt in tae kwon do and is a volleyball setter, a marathon runner, and an Ironman triathlon finisher. Fiona Moore, DPT, PT, OCS, SCS, Supervisor Dr. Moore is an outpatient physical therapy supervisor. She is a board-certified clinical specialist in orthopedics and sports through the American Board of Physical Therapy Specialties. Her areas of specialty and clinical interest include orthopedic manual therapy, treatment of overuse and sports-related injuries, and movement analysis. At the Running Lab, Dr. Moore conducts foot and ankle assessments and develops runners’ final reports. A former internationally ranked swimmer and collegiate water polo player, Dr. Moore now enjoys sprint triathlons, running, and swimming. Bethany R. Ridenhour PT, DPT , OCS, CSCS, Senior Physical Therapist Monica Seu, OTR/L, CHT, CLT, Senior Occupational Therapist Ms. Seu is a senior II occupational therapist. She is a certified hand therapist and has obtained her Level 1 Certification through Titleist Performance Institute. Her areas of specialty and clinical interests include postsurgical and nonsurgical management of the shoulder, elbow, and hand, as well as treating golf-related injuries to the upper body. In the Golf Lab, she assesses clients’ strength and flexibility. Eric Ross, PT, DPT , OCS, Clinical Specialist Charles Homoky, PT, DPT , SCS, CSCS, Staff Physical Therapist Kayce L. Davis, PT, DPT , Senior Physical Therapist Raymond Peralta, PT, DPT , RCEP, Senior Physical Therapist Scott Young, Golf Pro Mr. Young is a AAA-rated Professional Golfers Association of Australia member, and has been a member of the organization for 18 years. As a touring golf professional, he has traveled the globe for 10 years playing in more than 80 full tour events. Mr. Young combines personal experience in pure ball striking with knowledge of human physiology and golf specific biomechanics. Will Vandenberg, MS, Biomechanist Mr. Vandenberg is a sports biomechanist. He is also a biomechanical quantitative analyst for the Los Angeles Dodgers. He received his master of science degree in mechanical engineering and biomechanics from Tufts University and is OnBase University–certified in baseball hitting. A pitcher for his college baseball team, he specializes in injury prevention and improving athletic performance. Mr. Vandenberg helped develop programs at the Golf Lab. Anthony Yacco, Pitching Coach In 1999, Coach Yacco was the San Francisco Giants tenth-round draft pick out of high school. As a former professional athlete, he has unique insights that help baseball players improve their sports performance. Coach Yacco specializes in biomechanics and performance for rotational athletes from youth to professional levels. His expertise extends across multiple sports, including football, baseball, softball, lacrosse, hockey, and golf. He has been creating individualized programs for athletes for more than 20 years, and focuses on the interrelationship between biomechanics and kinesiology along with mental and emotional awareness, strength, and conditioning. For patients with symptoms of heart failure that limit their quality of life, doctors at NYU Langone’s offer a complete evaluation for all advanced cardiac therapies, including left ventricular assist devices, total artificial heart, , and surgical and percutaneous alternatives for complex valvular heart disease. The following clinical signs and symptoms should prompt physicians to refer patients in a timely manner for evaluation: inability to walk one block or up a flight of stairs without stopping intolerance of previously tolerated doses of beta blockers or ACE inhibitors any heart failure hospitalization within the last six months multiple implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) shocks in a symptomatic patient high doses of furosemide (>1 mg/kg) to maintain euvolemia nonresponse to cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) For additional information or to refer a patient, please call 855-NYU-LVAD ( Diagnosis & Treatment of Heart Valve Disease , you receive personalized care based on your individual needs. Our team includes doctors who specialize in different types of valve repair and replacement techniques, which means you receive the treatment that is best suited to your individual medical condition. To learn more about the care experience at the Heart Valve Center, read our Your First Appointment Most of the time, we can ensure that all necessary tests are completed by the day of your initial visit. Our heart valve doctors review your records, and at your appointment, we discuss your treatment options. During your visit, you may also meet with other specialists based on your individual needs such as geriatric cardiologists, physical therapists, nutritionists, or research specialists. We understand that deciding among the variety of treatment options for heart valve disease may feel overwhelming for patients and their families. We provide you and your family with the information you need to make an informed decision. Diagnostic Testing for Heart Valve Disease We offer multiple tests at the Heart Valve Center to diagnose aortic valve disease diagnose mitral valve disease . They include the following: echocardiogram, in which ultrasound is used to show how your heart and its valves are working cardiac catheterization, in which a long, thin, narrow tube is used to look for blockages in the arteries cardiac CT scan, in which X-ray imaging is used to view your heart and blood vessels electrocardiogram, known as an EKG, which analyzes your heart’s electrical activity Echocardiograms are performed at NYU Langone’s noninvasive cardiac imaging and testing team , which is led by Dr. Muhamed Saric , a world-renowned expert in this field. Treatments for Aortic Valve Disease includes aortic valve stenosis and aortic valve regurgitation . We offer many treatment options for aortic valve disease, including the following: watchful waiting , recommended for people with mild forms of the condition with few or no symptoms transcatheter procedures such as transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and aortic balloon valvuloplasty, which are provided by doctors at our minimally invasive aortic valve replacement surgery open heart surgery for aortic valve replacement or aortic root replacement Treatments for Mitral Valve Disease mitral valve regurgitation and mitral valve stenosis . We offer many treatment options for mitral valve disease, including the following: such as transcatheter mitral valve repair with MitraClip®, transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and mitral balloon valvuloplasty, which are provided by doctors at our Transcatheter Heart Valve Program , which is performed through five small pencil-sized incisions in the chest wall between the ribs and is provided by doctors at our that involves a small incision on the right side of the chest, which is also provided by doctors at our Mitral Valve Repair Program Recovery from Heart Valve Disease Treatment Recovery time following a heart valve disease procedure depends on the type of treatment used and your overall health. Transcatheter techniques generally require a one-night hospital stay, while open heart procedures can require a two- to four-day hospital stay. Nonsurgical Treatment for Sports Medicine Injuries Whenever possible, our specialists use nonsurgical treatments for injuries and conditions such as , golfer’s elbow, , and shoulder dislocations. Dr. Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas and other sports medicine specialists offer surgical and nonsurgical treatments for injuries and conditions that affect the shoulder and arm. Our advanced nonsurgical techniques are performed on an outpatient basis and include injections using platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, stem cell therapy, and shock wave therapy. Platelet-Rich Plasma Therapy In PRP therapy, your own blood components are used to stimulate healing in acute or chronically injured tendons, muscles, and ligaments. During the procedure, which takes between 20 and 30 minutes, our experts take a small amount of blood from your arm and place it in a special processing unit that separates the platelets and growth factors from the other blood components. The platelets and growth factors are then collected in a sterile syringe and injected into the targeted tissue. Stem Cell Therapy Adult mesenchymal stem cells, found in bone marrow, are primitive cells that help our bodies naturally heal. These cells have unique capabilities: They can differentiate into multiple tissues, including bone, cartilage, and muscle, as well as reduce inflammation. During a stem cell therapy procedure, which takes under 45 minutes, adult mesenchymal stem cells, derived from your own bone marrow, are removed from a bone in your pelvis, concentrated into a serum, and then injected into the injured knee, hip, or shoulder. It’s usually an outpatient procedure, often performed without the need for sedation. Shock wave therapy is used to stimulate healing in acute or chronically injured tendons and muscles. Our experts use Extracorporeal Pulse Technology , or EPAT —a unique set of pressure waves targeted at an area with chronic pain—to simulate cell production, enhance blood circulation, and eventually regenerate damaged tissue. The procedure usually takes 10 to 15 minutes, depending on the type of injury. Generally, five sessions are necessary for you to experience pain relief. Rehabilitation for Sports Injuries We focus on the rehabilitation of injuries and conditions to prevent them from recurring. Our sports medicine doctors collaborate with experts from the Sports Injury Rehabilitation Program to develop a customized physical therapy plan for you that may include the following: core strengthening and stabilizing exercises joint and soft tissue mobilization manual therapy, including soft tissue work muscle energy techniques that use your muscle contractions to reposition misaligned joints Pilates techniques such as mat, chair, and reformer posture, body mechanics, and ergonomic instruction therapeutic exercises targeted at weak or tight areas To make an appointment at NYU Langone’s Sports Medicine Center, please call Sports Medicine Injuries We Treat are dedicated to treating orthopedic injuries of all types, with a special focus on the knee and shoulder. Knee Injuries We Treat Your knee supports up to seven times your body’s weight, so it’s highly vulnerable to injury—whether it’s from a direct hit while playing contact sports, the stress of repeatedly going up and down the stairs, or the effects of osteoarthritis. Dr. Ramesh Gidumal and other orthopedic surgeons treat people with various musculoskeletal injuries and conditions, including those that affect the knee. We provide treatment for injuries and conditions that affect the knee, including the following: bursitis and tendinitis in the knee anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury iliotibial band (ITB) syndrome patellar tendinitis , also called jumper’s knee knee sprain meniscal tear patellofemoral pain syndrome , or runner’s knee posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injury medial collateral ligament (MCL) injury cartilage injuries knee dislocations knee cap dislocations revision knee surgeries complex knee injuries quadriceps and patella tendon tears Shoulder, Elbow, and Arm Injuries We Treat Injuries to ligaments, muscles, and tendons that make up the shoulder can limit your ability to move and lift your arms, and can also cause chronic pain. We offer treatment for injuries and conditions that specifically affect the shoulder and arm, including the following: biceps and triceps tendon tears lateral epicondylitis , or tennis elbow medial epicondylitis , or golfer’s elbow rotator cuff tendinitis ulnar collateral ligament tears, or Tommy John injury lateral ligament tears of elbow shoulder instability labral tears complex shoulder and elbow injuries Other Injuries We Treat Often, activities that require the same motion over and over, such as long-distance running, can lead to injury. These types of conditions can affect various parts of the body, including the calf, elbow, groin, hamstring, or quadriceps. “I was barely able to walk because of compartment syndrome and a torn Achilles tendon. After surgery, I am back in the gym exercising again.” —James, Age 52; After a meniscus repair, James is walking limp-free and exercising on a stationary bike. Some of the repetitive-use conditions we treat include the following: Achilles tendinitis and Achilles tendon rupture bursitis of the shoulder, elbow, knee, and hip compartment syndrome , which can cause pain, swelling, numbness and tingling in the arms, hands, legs, feet, or buttocks hamstring tears muscle strain or pulled muscle osteoarthritis of the sprains in the ankle tendinopathy in the heel, knee, shoulder, ankle, or elbow We also provide treatment for injuries and conditions that specifically affect the hips, shins, and feet and ankles, including , shin splints, and plantar fasciitis. surgeons are some of the most experienced in the country, performing more than 4,000 surgeries each year. We perform most surgeries on an outpatient basis , so you can start recovering comfortably in your own home on the day of the procedure. Our team of surgeons offers a variety of treatments, including cartilage repair and restoration, and specializes in arthroscopic procedures. We offer surgical treatments such as cartilage repair and restoration, including the following: autologous chondrocyte implantation biologic restoration DeNovo natural tissue implantation matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI) meniscus transplantation microfracture surgery osteochondral allograft and autograft transplantation stem cell treatment “Both my surgeon and physical therapist promised me I would dance again no matter what. And they were right.” —Manuela, Age 21; Dr. Michael Alaia performed a hamstring graft on Manuela, a professional dancer who thought her dancing career was over. A year after surgery, she is dancing at least 18 hours a week. Our surgeons also specialize in arthroscopic procedures, in which a small camera is inserted into a hip, shoulder, or knee joint to diagnose injury, remove bone or cartilage, or repair tendons and ligaments. These minimally invasive procedures include the following: knee arthroscopy for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction meniscus repair shoulder arthroscopy for labral repair , or biceps tenodesis ankle cartilage restoration and ligament reconstruction elbow arthroscopy for thrower’s elbow hip arthroscopy for labral tear repair We also offer additional procedures to repair injuries to the knee, shoulder, elbow, hand, and other areas, including the following: arthrocentesis, in which fluid build-up in the knee or shoulder is removed capsular release of the shoulder cruciate ligament surgery and reconstruction of the ACL, posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), lateral collateral ligament (LCL), and medial collateral ligament