PAH seen at the Pulmonary Hypertension Center from January 2017 to July 2021. Participants were maintained on a stable dual-therapy combination regimen, then followed up after starting a third add-on drug sequentially. Of the 102 patients who started on the triple regimen, 55 were included in the final analysis. About a third of them were classified as high risk. After 68 weeks of follow-up, the researchers saw a significant improvement in functional, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic parameters. In addition, those patients who achieved or maintained low-risk status had significantly improved survival. The analysis found that being female was strongly associated with successful risk reduction. In contrast, Hispanic ethnicity, right atrial pressure, and pericardial effusion were associated with lower odds of risk reduction. “Our findings are hypothesis-generating,” Dr. Sulica explains. “Overall, these data support considering risk reduction as an end point in future trials.” Impact of Diversity on Outcomes Dr. Sulica acknowledges that more research is needed to assess the true impact of race and ethnicity on patient outcomes. “In our cohort, Hispanic patients had lower odds of risk reduction,” she says. “These results need to be confirmed in larger studies.” If the research bears out, she adds, further studies could help identify the optimal triple combination regimen for PAH based on its various etiologies. Dr. Sulica serves as advisor for Bayer, Janssen, Liquidia, Merck, and United Therapeutics. She serves as a researcher for Bayer, Bellerophon Therapeutics, Merck, and United Therapeutics. Roxana Sulica, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program. She specializes in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Latest in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Study shows inflammatory gene signature in tumor-adjacent lung tissue is the strongest clinical predictor of cancer progression. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors NYU Langone’s efforts to address the health effects of the World Trade Center disaster stand as a model for other programs. Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Single-port tech offers an improved surgical experience for both patients and surgeons. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting Miami Beach, FL. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s experts in otolaryngology—head and neck surgery are joining colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF 2024 annual meeting in Miami Beach. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, September 28 Panel Steroids and the Voice: The Science and Art of Dosing and Tapering Regimen NYU Langone Panelists: Milan R. Amin MD Ryan C. Branski PhD Aaron M. Johnson PhD 2:30–3:30PM MBCC, 224 The Effect of Anxiety on Hypoglossal Nerve Stimulation Adherence and Amplitude Settings Courtney Chou 4:06–4:12PM MBCC, 238–239 Sunday, September 29 Surgical Excision for Vocal Scar: Assessing Patient Outcomes Naomi B. Tesema, BS, Taylor Lackey, MD, Stratos Achlatis, MD, 10:24–10:30AM Monday, September 30 Diagnostic Test Selection in Chronic Cough and Dysphagia 4:00–5:00PM MBCC, 210 Stump the Experts: Laryngology/Broncho-Esophagology 11:00 AM–12:00PM MBCC, 231 Debate Great Debate Series: CI Related Topics J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD MBCC, Art Deco 228AB Incomplete Facial Palsy: Challenging Cases in Facial Reanimation Danielle Eytan, MD MBCC, 232 Poster Presentation Metabolomic Profiling of Nodal Metastasis in HPV-Negative Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma NYU Langone Authors: Chareeni E. Kurukulasuriya, 12:00–1:00PM N/A (poster presentation) Identifying Patient Characteristics and Neuromodulator Treatment Patterns in Adults with Refractory or Unexplained Chronic Cough NYU Langone Presenting Author: Yaerin Song Taylor Lackey, MD, Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease An HZO expert's personal experience culminates in a major clinical trial. The aims and endpoints of the Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) include evaluating whether suppressive valacyclovir treatment delays time to first occurrence of new or worsening of specific forms of eye disease and reduces the incidence, severity, and duration of postherpetic neuralgia. ZEDS researchers are also evaluating the impact of vaccination with the recombinant zoster vaccine on study outcomes and whether vaccination against herpes zoster affects COVID-19 diagnosis and severity. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study As of December 31, 2021, ZEDS had 75 enrolling participating clinical centers across 28 states, Canada, and New Zealand; 540 screened study participants (study visit 1); and 433 enrolled study participants (study visit 2), with 300 having completed 12 months and 239 having completed 18 months of study. The researchers’ goal is to have 780 participants. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Of randomized ZEDS participants, 53 percent are female, 86 percent are White, 5 percent are Asian, 4 percent are Black, 4 percent are Hispanic/Latino, 78 percent had no zoster vaccination before enrollment, and 12 percent had a baseline eGFR of 45 to 59 with the remainder having 60 or above. The median age at randomization was 61, and patients have been evenly distributed among 4 strata according to age at onset of disease and duration of HZO at time of enrollment. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Current standard treatment for herpes zoster ophthalmicus (HZO) , or shingles of the eye, involves short-term use of a high oral dose of an antiviral valacyclovir, acyclovir, or famciclovir. An unresolved question has been whether longer-term valacyclovir treatment can improve outcomes in HZO and should become standard of care. In 2016, , a professor of ophthalmology, and her team were awarded a $15 million grant from the National Eye Institute of the National Institutes of Health to explore long-term use of valacyclovir. The resulting 75-center Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) is currently ongoing. “Our goal is to reduce recurrant and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” “We already know that long-term suppressive treatment has greatly improved outcomes for herpes simplex eye disease, which shares key similarities to herpes zoster eye disease,” says Dr. Cohen. “Our goal is to reduce recurrent and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” A Vision for Treatment Born from Experience A cornea specialist, Dr. Cohen suffered from herpes zoster eye disease in 2008. She lost depth perception and had to give up her practice. Always interested in eye infections, she refocused her research toward finding a better treatment for HZO. Dr. Cohen has been a tireless advocate in her efforts to promote the herpes zoster vaccine. “We now have the recombinant zoster vaccine that is over 90 percent effective,” she says. “It is my ambition that we get as many people as possible age 50 and older and immunocompromised adults protected from this common, debilitating disease that is vision- and life-threatening.” Sustaining ZEDS Research through COVID-19 While the pandemic derailed many clinical trials requiring participant visits, ZEDS notably maintained its momentum. Dr. Cohen and the  ZEDS research team outlined their successful strategy to retain participants and quickly resume enrollment in Contemporary Clinical Trials Communications . The team also outlined the study design and enrollment progress in a recent issue of Cornea “Through the unwavering commitment of researchers here at NYU Langone and at the participating clinical centers, we have been able to sustain our enrollment,” Dr. Cohen notes. “We hope our work can provide insights into the planning of future trials in addition to improving outcomes in HZO.” Dr. Cohen and the research team encourage all doctors to refer patients with HZO to a study site near them for evaluation, or to contact the NYU Grossman School of Medicine by phone at 844-NYU-ZEDS or by email at ZEDS.CTA@nyulangone.org , our cardiologists understand that each cardiac condition requires a specialized approach to treatment. This is why we have established several condition-focused cardiac programs to ensure you receive personalized, high-quality care. , experts diagnose and create treatment plans for patients living with a heart condition that was present at birth, emphasizing lifelong health. In our , doctors use the latest diagnostic tools to provide an accurate diagnosis and create treatment plans to manage this serious heart condition, in which protein buildup causes thickening of the heart walls. Experts at our provide cardiovascular care to patients who have cancer or are cancer survivors. Specialists at our base their treatment on the latest clinical trial data to manage a full array of blood-clotting disorders. In addition, cardiologists at our manage aneurysm and aortic dissection using minimally invasive approaches and open surgery. World renowned experts at our provide care to patients with this condition, in which the heart’s left ventricle wall becomes stiff, limiting the ability to pump blood. We encourage you to reach out to our providers at the specialized program that best addresses your medical needs. Care for Neurosarcoidosis Neurologists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program have experience in diagnosing and treating neurosarcoidosis. This inflammatory condition affects about 5 to 10 percent of people with . Neurologic symptoms of neurosarcoidosis may appear before other sarcoidosis symptoms, or they may be the only sign of sarcoidosis. Symptoms vary depending on the part of the nervous system affected. When neurosarcoidosis affects the optic nerve, for example, patients may experience worsening vision in the affected eye and pain when it moves. Someone whose neurosarcoidosis affects the spinal cord may experience weakness, abnormal sensation, or difficulty emptying the bladder. When neurosarcoidosis affects the brain, it can lead to symptoms that may include seizures, vision problems, or difficulty with thinking and memory. Neurosarcoidosis is rare, affecting an estimated 1 in 100,000 people in the United States. To make a diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis, the neurologist takes a detailed neurologic history and conducts a comprehensive neurologic examination. Testing for neurosarcoidosis may include MRI of the brain and spinal cord and lumbar puncture, as well as blood tests to exclude alternative diagnoses. Our neurologists work with you and your other sarcoidosis specialists to develop a personalized treatment plan. A number of medications have been found to be helpful in preventing neurologic symptoms from getting worse or even improving symptoms. Our neurologists can accommodate appointments for patients who need to be seen urgently. If you’re unable to find an appointment with one of our providers using online scheduling, please call us at Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Robert J. Cerfolio, MD The robotics work at NYU Langone Health is building on its proven track record of success. Recently, , a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of robotic thoracic surgery , and his team were among the first to perform a lobectomy using a single-port robot. “The earliest anecdotal evidence is compelling, with some patients foregoing pain medication and being discharged ahead of schedule,” Dr. Zervos says. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery.” While the new single-port platform is currently being used in a clinical trial setting, Dr. Zervos is optimistic about the future of the technology, citing the strong potential for broad use across various thoracic surgery procedures. Leaders in the Robotic Arena While most thoracic procedures are still performed in a conventional multiport manner, single-port robotic-assisted surgery offers an exciting new premise for innovation in the field. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos says. For over a decade, he and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, have been dedicated to propelling robotic surgical technology forward and training surgeons worldwide, positioning themselves as global leaders in the robotic arena. “Patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” “We are known all over the world as innovators in surgical techniques, and this extends to postoperative care,” Dr. Cerfolio says. “We are dedicated to our patients, making availability a priority, and patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” Wins for Patient and Surgeon Over the past several years, robotic systems for thoracic surgery have evolved rapidly. The newest single-port platforms have many unique advantages over multiport platforms, such as the ability to perform surgery using a single, minimalized incision and to apply a subcostal entry that avoids invasion of the chest cavity. With these advantages, the procedure leaves little to no scarring and reduces pain, a major benefit compared to other minimally invasive techniques. “With standard multiport platforms, patients will experience some degree of pain and potentially chronic intercostal neuralgia,” Dr. Zervos says. “With the single-port robot, patients report minimal to no pain after the procedure.” For the Love of Teaching While attitudes have begun to change, few programs have fully integrated robotics training into their residency and fellowship curricula. Common barriers include cost and lack of faculty expertise, as well as other factors. “For many programs, there is a huge gap in implementing education for new technologies like robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos explains. To start to close this knowledge gap, Dr. Zervos and Dr. Cerfolio have led the design of unique case observation and training programs, open to both trainees and surgeons from within the United States and around the globe. They hope the programs can surmount some of the barriers to implementing robotics training in thoracic surgery. Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and senior consultant for the Robotic Surgery Center. He specializes in the treatment of lung and esophageal cancers. Michael Zervos, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and director of robotic thoracic surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. He specializes in the treatment of complicated airway, breathing, and lung conditions using minimally invasive approaches. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors More than two decades after the attack on the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11, 2001, many first responders and survivors continue to experience health impacts from their exposure to toxic conditions. From the beginning, NYU Langone Health, in collaboration with NYC Health + Hospitals, has been an integral player in the care and surveillance of these patients In 2010, following the establishment of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, NYU Langone began providing care as part of the CDC’s WTC Health Program. This encompasses the WTC Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone for responders, directed by Denise J. Harrison, MD WTC Environmental Health Center at NYC Health + Hospitals for survivors, directed by Joan Reibman, MD Both Dr. Harrison and Dr. Reibman were caring for patients when the attacks occurred. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda.” “Right away we started seeing patients in the clinics and developing specialized treatment for responders, survivors, and residents,” Dr. Harrison says. Care for Responders Shortly following the WTC disaster, Dr. Harrison received funding from the Robin Hood Foundation to travel to affected communities to screen and refer day laborers who played a vital part in the recovery effort but would otherwise not have access to care. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda,” Dr. Harrison says. She emphasizes that the leadership within NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program meets regularly with community organizations and union members who share in the decision-making involving research and patient care. As a result, what began as a screening program for responders now provides comprehensive services for health monitoring mental health pharmacy benefits counseling . If a responder is approved, the program pays for all their medical expenses. Treating Community Survivors While NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program treats a broad range of responders, from firefighters to healthcare personnel to iron workers, the WTC Environmental Health Center assesses and treats WTC-related physical and mental health conditions of survivors— eligible residents, students, workers, or passersby in the area on 9/11. In 2005, Dr. Reibman and colleagues published an epidemiologic survey of over 2,300 individuals who lived and worked in the WTC geographic area on or after 9/11. The study showed that a significant number had developed respiratory issues By 2008, the WTC Environmental Health Center had received federal funding to provide treatment for these survivors. “Our goal is to provide care for all those with conditions resulting from dust and fume exposures, but also to provide surveillance of new conditions.” Notably, Dr. Reibman says, the WTC Environmental Health Center was included as the only Center of Excellence for survivors under the CDC’s WTC Health Program and serves as a model for subsequent survivor programs. To date, there are over 14,000 survivors enrolled in the WTC Environmental Health Center. “These patients continue to inform us about WTC-related illnesses,” Dr. Reibman says. In 2022, her team detailed how WTC-related airway injury impacts chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Cancer Characteristics Much of these surveillance efforts are directed at cancers. Where a majority of responders seeking treatment have been men, and Dr. Harrison’s research has focused on these patients , the survivor group comprises about 50 percent women. “Surprisingly, many of these women have had breast cancer rather than lung cancer,” Dr. Reibman notes. The survivor cohort is diverse ethnically and socioeconomically, and about 50 percent had acute exposure (to the dust clouds) and others had chronic exposure (lived or worked in the area). “This focus on the community exposed to the WTC disaster is important because it allows us to study environmental exposures and look at the characteristics of cancers ,” Dr. Reibman says. “We aim to understand the commonalities and differences among the cancers, and to use the unique longitudinal data to better understand environmental exposures and cancer in general.” This effort has led to the establishment of a pan-cancer database . “We’re looking to collaborate with other researchers studying cancers: we have groups focused on , melanoma, and . We also hope to recruit people who were children or youth on 9/11 to study how they’ve been impacted,” Dr. Reibman says. The federal WTC Health Program is still accepting both responder and survivor enrollees. “For anyone who had exposure but never sought treatment or has more recently developed health issues, it’s not too late to enroll in the program,” Dr. Harrison says. “We advocate for everyone coming in.” Pulmonology, Occupational and Environmental Medicine Denise J. Harrison, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and medical director of the World Trade Center Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone Health. Her research focuses on the ongoing physical and mental health conditions of responders to the World Trade Center attacks. Joan Reibman, MD, is a professor of medicine, affiliated faculty in the Division of Environmental Medicine, and medical director of the World Trade Center Environmental Health Center, a Clinical Center of Excellence that is part of the federal World Trade Center Health Program. Her research focuses on expanding the molecular, environmental, and clinical understanding of urban asthma and cancers. Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Analysis of RNA collected from healthy tissue adjacent to tumor cells holds significant prognostic information for lung cancer recurrence. ADAPTED FROM: Nature Commun . 2023 Nov 8;14(1):6764. The risk of disease progression for patients with early-stage lung adenocarcinoma is currently about 30 percent after surgical resection. Transcriptomic information collected from tumor-adjacent normal (TAN) lung samples may be a better predictor of whether cancer will recur after treatment than analysis of the tumors themselves, according to new research led by investigators at NYU Langone Health and Analysis of RNA collected from healthy TAN tissue accurately predicted that cancer would recur 83 percent of the time, while RNA from tumors was only informative 62 percent of the time. The TAN samples were also better able to stratify patients into high- and low-risk groups. , the investigation is the largest to date to compare genetic material from tumors and adjacent tissue for their ability to predict recurrence. “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease.” Igor Dolgalev, PhD “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease,” said study co-lead author For the study, the research team collected matched tumor and TAN lung samples from 143 patients with treatment-naïve stage I lung adenocarcinoma who underwent surgical resection. The samples were obtained from NYU Langone’s biorepository of prospectively collected samples. Machine learning models were developed to predict recurrence by identifying genes differentially expressed in patients with cancer progression versus those with no progression within five years of surgery. A multi-modal association map refined patient classification. Analysis revealed that the expression of genes associated with inflammation in TAN lung tissue was especially useful for making predictions. This defensive response, the study authors say, may be an early warning sign of disease. “Immunotherapy might help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection.” Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD “Immunotherapy, which bolsters the body’s immune defenses, might therefore help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection,” said study co-senior author , director of bioinformatics research. The study team, including bioinformatician Hua Zhou, PhD, plan to use the program to prospectively assess recurrence risk in patients newly treated for early-stage lung cancer. Cancer Biology Igor Dolgalev, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Cellular Analytics Laboratory. His research focuses on genetic profiling of cancers, identification of mutations, and the efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors. Cancer Genomics Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD, is a professor of medicine and pathology, co-director of the Division of Precision Medicine, and director of the Applied Bioinformatics Laboratories. His research focuses on cancer genomics and epigenomics: designing computational methods and pipelines, analyzing data and interpreting the results in different biological contexts. 324 East 23rd Street New York, NY 10010 646-754-1489 NYU Langone’s Osteoporosis and Bone Health Program is dedicated to increasing the quality of life of people suffering from or at risk for developing Our program specialists are dedicated to preventing bone fragility fractures related to osteoporosis by working together to provide you with the best possible care. We collaborate with orthopedic surgeons, nurse practitioners, and physical therapists to offer you complete support during diagnosis, initial treatment, and beyond. Diagnostic Expertise Osteoporosis is a disease that gradually weakens bones and increases the risk of fracture. It affects up to 28 million people in the United States, making it as common as . Women who have reached are at the greatest risk of developing the condition. A fragility fracture is often the first sign of the condition. When you first meet with us, we give you a comprehensive evaluation that may include simple, noninvasive diagnostic tests that measure your level of bone loss. We also perform mineral density testing to measure the strength of your bones. A Personalized Care Plan Our postfracture bone health program is a crucial step toward ensuring optimal recovery and preventing future fractures. After a bone fracture, the affected area is often weakened and more susceptible to additional injuries. Our team works with you to strengthen the bones through dietary adjustments, physical therapy, and , if needed. We encourage adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D to support bone regeneration and density. Physical therapy plays an important role in restoring mobility, improving balance, and increasing muscle strength, which together reduce the risk of more falls and fractures. We also help improve patient care after a fracture by providing information on the following: nutrition, physical activity, and repeat bone mineral density testing medication and other treatment options your specific risk factors and treatment recommendations This program also addresses underlying causes of the initial fracture, including repetitive movements. By identifying and managing these causes, we help to reduce long-term health risks. Ongoing Follow-Up Care Through regular monitoring and follow-up appointments, our providers monitor your bone health and promptly adjust your treatment plan. This approach not only helps the immediate healing process but also promotes long-term bone health, enhancing the overall quality of life for people who have experienced fractures. Our providers can develop a treatment plan to manage your osteoporosis and bone health. NL Nicole Leung 646-754-9631 Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Surgical Services Specialists in NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program offer advanced surgical procedures to manage tracheal and bronchial disorders. Our doctors can discuss whether surgery is the right option for you. Our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world at using to manage tracheal and bronchial tumors, including carcinoids, tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, and tracheoesophageal fistula. NYU Langone is one of the few medical institutions in the Northeast to offer a minimally invasive surgical approach for these conditions, helping to decrease the patient’s length of stay in the hospital and allowing for a faster, less-painful recovery than conventional open surgery. Tracheal Surgery For tracheal surgery, our doctors consider whether a traditional open procedure or minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery is the best approach for you. Open surgery may include making incisions in the neck, also known as transcervical surgery, or an incision in the chest, which is called a sternotomy. Depending on the location of the tracheal condition, either one of these approaches might be used or combined. If the underlying problem is in the chest, our doctors are likely to use robotic-assisted surgery. Our thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons work together to provide the most appropriate surgical approach to manage tracheal conditions. The surgery for TBM includes sewing a mesh to the back side of the airway to strengthen and remodel its size and shape, preventing collapse. Our surgeons may remove and reconstruct portions of the trachea to manage tracheal stenosis. For a tracheal sleeve procedure, surgeons make incisions to remove the narrowed portion of the trachea and then reattach the healthy upper and lower parts of the trachea to restore airflow. Tracheoplasty is a procedure to manage longer sections of narrowed airway. Our surgeons divide and make incisions in two sections of the narrowed portion of the airway. The surgeons slide one section into the other, creating a shorter but wider trachea. Tracheoesophageal fistula may be managed with surgery to close an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus. Surgery may also be a treatment option for tracheal tumors. Doctors remove the tumor and a small border of surrounding tissue and then connect the healthy ends of the trachea to each other. Our team has published articles on techniques to repair or replace damaged tracheal tissue. Bronchial Surgery Our thoracic surgeons may perform a bronchial sleeve resection and reconstruction to remove bronchial tumors. Surgeons make incisions in the bronchus, also known as a bronchial tube, to remove the tumor, along with some surrounding tissue. They then reconnect the healthy parts of the bronchus to each other. Our surgeons may use minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery to manage bronchial tumors, an approach rarely offered at other institutions, where open approaches are the norm. Robotic-assisted surgery allows for faster recovery, less pain, and an earlier return home than after an open bronchial surgery, improving patients’ quality of life. Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Steven Hodak, MD sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the new wave of treatments and approaches available for thyroid-related conditions. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation —the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. How are we moving in a minimally invasive direction? What does it mean? Dr. Hodak: We’re really on the precipice of another huge paradigm shift in the way we can take care of thyroid patients. There’s an increasing recognition that minimally invasive treatments can be used for treating thyroid nodules that are unsightly, that cause a cosmetic bulge in the neck, or cause obstructive or compressive symptoms, or that may even be overactive nodules that are producing thyroid hormone and making the patient hyperthyroid. We now have minimally invasive methods that are done on an outpatient basis in 30 minutes to an hour. In many cases, the patients are awake. They go home the same day, and we’re able to treat that nodule and give the patient a good cosmetic result. Size reduction, normalized thyroid function without ever leaving a scar, and most importantly, preserving normal thyroid function, which is not the case for surgery in up to about half of patients who have had half of their thyroid removed. What about different techniques when you do decide to remove them? You were an early adopter of radiofrequency ablation. I went to Korea to learn how to do the procedure. It’s been done in Korea for probably 15 years, and I learned from one of the world masters. “I went to Korea to learn how to do [radiofrequency ablation] … I learned from one of the world masters.” It uses heat to destroy the tissue, the needle that we use has about the caliber of a piece of spaghetti. It’s about seven inches long. There’s a handle on it, and there’s an active tip of variable size. And that active tip generates very high-frequency energy. What that does is it creates very precisely delivered heat that we can then move around through a nodule under continuous ultrasound guidance, and we can destroy the nodule. It’s effective, it’s done in the office—30 to 60 minutes—depending on the size of the nodule. It does not remove the nodule, which is one of the benefits of surgery. If we know the nodule is benign and what we’re trying to do is give the patient a good cosmetic outcome, and spare their thyroid function, or alleviate symptoms and spare their thyroid function, it’s a terrific procedure. We’re dancing around different demarcations of thyroid cancer. What about the different kinds of thyroid cancer and how we approach them differently? These days, when we’re finding small thyroid cancers in the thyroid gland, and where we know they have not spread locally, one of the treatments that we can discuss is a minimally invasive procedure like radiofrequency ablation. It’s really pretty amazing. I’ve treated some of these small tumors in over 12 to 18 months. After follow-up, the cancer will literally disappear. There won’t be any visible cancer left. The first case I ever did, years ago at NYU Langone, was a lovely lady who had a variety of complications, but she had what was considered an inoperable papillary thyroid cancer that was growing in size. She had vocal cord paralysis. She had had a lung transplant. The surgeons didn’t want to touch her because they knew if they traumatized her vocal cord nerves, she’d wind up with a permanent tracheostomy, a breathing tube. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them.” I agreed to do that case with a minimally invasive method. We were able to completely destroy her cancer, which allowed her to be listed for a kidney transplant that she desperately needed. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them. [ Read more about Dr. Hodak’s experience with radiofrequency ablation here. How do you approach goiters? The tried-and-true treatment is surgery, but there are some newer treatments that are very exciting that are reducing the need for surgery. We’re one of very few centers in the United States that does thyroid artery embolization. It’s something that Howard Rinna , who, you know, is the chief of interventional neurosurgery, and I started doing about a year ago. Howard does this procedure, he’s been doing it for other neurological tumors for many years. It involves taking a thin catheter that’s passed through an artery, typically through a puncture in the groin, just like how an angiogram is done, or any of these other catheter-based procedures. Howard will snake that catheter right up and into the arteries that feed the thyroid, or, in the case of a nodule, feed the nodule itself. Then he instills microscopic embolization beads into the artery. Those beads are carried along with the blood flow, and they eventually lodge when they get to the very tiny vessels, the capillaries, and then the artery starts to backfill with beads, and all of the branch feeders start to get occluded as well. By doing this, he’s able to stop the blood supply to the thyroid, to a lobe, to the nodule that needs to be treated in this patient procedure that is done as an outpatient, where hospitalization is usually not needed. He’s able to destroy large parts of the thyroid very selectively and reduce these enormous goiters. The really exciting opportunities are for the patients who have these big goiters that are in their chest. In the old days, some cases, we would have to do a sternotomy and split the chest open to get those goiters out of the deep part of the chest. Howard can treat those now through this vascular procedure. And even if the patient winds up with surgery, it’s an enormously more straightforward surgery when the goiter has been dramatically decreased in size. What do people do in underserved areas? The North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, NASIT, is an organization that I started with a number of people in California, in Florida, in New York, from some of the premier institutions in the country. It really is a home for all of the people doing minimally invasive procedures and interventional thyroidology like I do. “I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment.” If people are looking for a doctor like that in their area, there’s a search function on the website. They can go to www.nasit.org , and they can find a doctor in their area. If someone needs a highly specialized treatment and they don’t have a specialist in their area, they need to find one if that’s the procedure that they need. Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment. When people have real diseases that need a real evaluation, making sure that you’re working with a center that really can offer top-of-the-line care and expert diagnostics as well as treatment options—there’s really no substitute for that. Endocrinology, Thyroid