Hospital—Long Island Makes It Possible Military Family Center Programs & Services The healthcare professionals at the NYU Langone Military Family Center provide free and confidential services for veterans and families in many specialty areas, including the following: post-traumatic stress traumatic brain injury alcohol and substance use disorder grief and loss relationship and family conflict military sexual trauma readjustment issues parenting concerns children’s behavioral or academic problems In addition to our general clinical program, we offer the following specialty programs: Online Doctor Visits As part of our Telemental Health Program, our doctors provide online mental healthcare to veterans and their families in New York and Connecticut who are unable to regularly commute to in-person therapy. Online doctor visits are accessed through the , a secure and confidential platform. The video visits take place in the privacy of your own home or wherever you feel most comfortable and can ensure confidentiality, allowing us to provide care and support that best meets your needs and those of your family. For more information, call Psychiatric Medication Management The Military Family Center provides evaluations and ongoing treatment with a psychiatrist for people experiencing a wide array of issues, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), trauma, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , insomnia, and problems with drugs or alcohol. Medications can be prescribed if needed, and follow-up appointments are scheduled regularly to ensure that the medicine is effective in easing your symptoms. Our team works to fine-tune treatment to achieve the best possible results. Dual Diagnosis Program Our Welcome Back Veterans Dual Diagnosis Program, made possible by the Robert R. McCormick Foundation and Major League Baseball, offers flexible, integrative care for veterans, service members, and their family members struggling with substance abuse disorder and co-occurring mental health problems. This includes those who want to completely stop use or to reduce the problems associated with substance use. Treatment with an addiction psychiatrist and psychologist for both medications and therapy can be provided. Traumatic Brain Injury Program Approximately 300,000 veterans sustained a traumatic brain injury (TBI) as a result of serving in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 57 percent were not evaluated or treated for TBI. Our Traumatic Brain Injury Program, funded by the New York City Council, offers services to fill this gap in treatment. The program provides neuropsychological evaluations, which help to understand the relationship between brain and behavior. These evaluations offer in-depth assessment of memory, visual and verbal thinking, attention, problem solving, planning, and mood. The Traumatic Brain Injury Program also offers cognitive training to develop strategies to work around cognitive difficulties. Training consists of 10 weekly meetings for 1 to 2 hours with a neuropsychologist to learn problem solving, organizational strategies, and memory and attention techniques. The program also provides patients with the opportunity to learn how mood, sleep, and headaches can affect cognitive functioning, and strategies to work on these domains. The individualized treatment caters to the specific challenges and strengths of each veteran, guided by the neuropsychological assessment. Child and Family Program Military children face unique stressors related to relocation, parental separation, family reunification, and reintegration. These stressors may result in disrupted relationships, behavioral problems, and academic difficulties. Many children struggle to adjust to their parent’s combat injury, whether visible or invisible, or deal with a parent’s death. The Child and Family Program provides individual child therapy, parent–child therapy, family therapy, social skills groups for children, and parenting support workshops. Expressive arts, games, and play are central components used to address and process concerns that impact the whole family. These services are offered to veterans and current service members and their families, as well as families of the fallen. Couples Therapy The Military Family Center provides support to couples experiencing relational difficulties, including conflict, a sense of disconnection, and problems with communication. Although the majority of military families are strong and resilient, stress related to military service may affect intimate relationships, at times leading to problems such as domestic violence and divorce. Using emotionally focused couples therapy, our clinicians are here to help couples restore a sense of connection, safety, and intimacy between the partners. Couples do not have to be legally married to qualify for services. ADHD Assessments We provide attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) assessments and treatment for veterans and their families. ADHD in adults affects approximately 5 percent of our nation’s veterans. It can interfere with your ability to reach your goals in academics, your job, and even your family life. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Leadership & Board of Trustees An experienced group of administrators, clinicians, and community representatives provides leadership and oversight for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Executive Leadership Larry K. McReynolds , Executive Director Isaac P. Dapkins, MD , Chief Medical Officer Eric Doescher, Vice President for Administration and Network Integration Astrid P. Gonzalez, Vice President, Finance Kathy Hopkins, Vice President, Department of Community Programs Margaret Mason, DMD, Vice President of Dental Medicine Board of Trustees Chang Xie, Chair Lucy Sanabria, Vice Chair Anthony Santiago, Treasurer Cynthia Felix Jeffers, Secretary Members Karen Broughton Wai Yee Chan Thomas Early Brenda Grandell Gary E. Kalkut, MD, MPH Rabbi Robert Kaplan Shemala C. Lovell Angela Martinez Violeta Maya Rev. Lawrence V. Pitta Judge Christopher Robles Leslie Simonetti Rev. Samuel Fook Wong Richard Villar, Esq. The mailing address for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is 5800 Third Avenue, Second Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11220. nbowman 2024-12-16T07:41:51+00:00 > Your Search for an Exceptional Career Starts Here We have a range of exciting career opportunities, all supported by our unwavering commitment to helping all our faculty and staff reach their full potential. Job Search Filters Use the filters below to refine your job search. View the table below the map for a complete list of results. A selection of relevant jobs across our locations will appear in the map. Enter Keywords or MOS Code to  Search for a Job Career Specialties Position Type Facility Clear all filters Apply Filters 0 Live Results Job Title Job ID Shift Preparing for Your Visit to the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offer social services, as well as medical, behavioral health, dental, and rehabilitation care. The following tips may be helpful as you plan for your visit with us. How do I schedule an appointment? To schedule an appointment at any of our Family Health Centers locations, please call . When you call, please be ready to provide the full name of the person you are making the appointment for, his or her date of birth, phone number, health insurance information, and the reason for your appointment request. You may receive a reminder phone call two days in advance of your appointment. If you are unable to keep your appointment, please call as soon as possible to reschedule. What should I bring to my appointment? For your first appointment at any of our Family Health Centers, please bring copies of your medical records, if you have them. Always bring any medications you are currently taking, your insurance card, and any referral or precertification information. If you are a new patient, please plan to arrive 30 minutes in advance of your appointment to fill out necessary paperwork. All other patients are asked to please arrive 15 minutes early. Which insurance plans and forms of payment do you accept? The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide financial assistance to patients who cannot pay for their medical care. We have an established sliding scale discount program that assures that patients have access to all the services we offer (health center’s scope of service), regardless of their ability to pay. We accept Medicare, Medicaid, and other major insurances. Patients without insurance or whose insurance is limited can apply for the sliding scale fee program. Please note that applying for and/or being turned down for insurance is not a prerequisite for a sliding scale fee or other discount. Please let a Family Health Center staff member know if you have any questions or wish to apply for the sliding scale discount program. We are here to assist you. Please bring proof of income and family size, and one of our appointment coordinators can review your payment options and the programs you may qualify for. Co-pays and other charges may be paid with cash, personal check, money orders, or major credit cards. If you have a billing question, please call How can I access my medical information and test results? You may use to view your lab and test results, access medical records, request prescription refills, send a secure message to your doctor’s office, or pay a bill. MyChart at NYU Langone Health can be accessed by computer or through a mobile app. Women's Health—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Women’s health services, gynecological care, and obstetric care are provided by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Our main location for care specific to women’s health is . Services are also available at: testing and prenatal care. Your first doctor’s visit when you are pregnant starts with a sonogram, a painless test that allows the doctor to see your baby and make sure that he or she is developing normally. We also talk with you about things you can do to have a healthy pregnancy, such as eating right, drinking enough water, making healthy choices when it comes to sex, and seeing a . Some women experience or other mental health issues during or after pregnancy, and we can refer you to our During your pregnancy, you can choose to participate in our shared medical appointment program. These sessions combine your own doctor’s appointment with childbirth and breastfeeding classes, a tour of labor and delivery at , and a meeting with our pediatricians. You can also meet other soon-to-be mothers, and talk about things you have in common. Our nurses are available to answer any questions you have about pregnancy and childbirth. We perform all medical testing on site, including blood tests. If your doctor thinks you need extra care during your pregnancy, or if you or your baby have been diagnosed with a medical condition, we have doctors who are experts in helping you have as healthy a pregnancy as possible. Gynecological and Women’s Health Services Our OB/GYN physicians provide annual women’s health checkups. This includes testing for sexually transmitted diseases such as , Pap smears to check for human papillomavirus , and screenings for and other cancers. Birth control, including intrauterine device (IUD) placement, is also available. If you have , or any other women’s health issue, our doctors can help. If you have been diagnosed with , our breast cancer surgeon is available to provide treatment. Our insurance representatives can help you apply for Medicaid and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), if you qualify. We also have a sliding-scale payment system that is based on your income. For women who need help with issues related to domestic violence, immigration, or housing, we provide consultation with a lawyer from Her Justice legal services. This program is coordinated by Community-Based Programs—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides medical, mental health, dental, and vision services, along with health education, directly to children and adolescents through clinics located in public elementary, middle, and high schools throughout New York City. We care for children when they are sick, but also provide the preventive medical care to keep them healthy. Parental Consent Forms For a child to receive care through the School Health Program, parents are required to complete consent forms. View Our Parental Consent Forms By operating clinics inside schools, we help ensure that healthcare is accessible and convenient for children and families. A healthy child misses fewer days of school, which makes it easier to keep up with schoolwork and succeed academically. Also, when a child is healthy, his or her parents miss fewer days of work. School-based clinics are staffed by at least one nurse practitioner who can write prescriptions, order diagnostic tests for illnesses such as strep throat, and help manage chronic conditions including . The health team includes physician assistants, nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, health educators, medical associates, and patient services associates. Our dentistry program is staffed by a dentist and dental hygienist. Although insurance is billed for visits when appropriate, visits to the school-based health center lead to no out-of-pocket costs to families. Full-Service Healthcare for Children Care received through the School Health Program does not replace a child’s regular pediatrician or dentist visits. But the clinics can supplement care when necessary, or provide it if a child does not have a regular doctor or dentist. Preventive care includes immunizations, annual well visits, and back-to-school and sports physicals. The medical team is also available to treat illnesses; administer first aid; provide referral to specialists as needed; and conduct dental, vision, and hearing screenings. At our high school locations, teenagers receive sexual health education, access to contraception, and testing for and sexually transmitted diseases such as Our dental staff performs cleanings, treats cavities, and provides preventive care such as fluoride treatment. Our behavioral health clinicians conduct screenings and psychosocial assessments for students referred for treatment. They provide specific interventions to ensure that students’ social and emotional needs are addressed. There is also access to off-site psychiatric services and referrals to various social services agencies in the community. All services are available to students enrolled at the participating school. Appointments are scheduled during the school day. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care , with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. For more information, please contact the individual school. When schools are closed, services are available at all locations. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care or dental care, with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. We also require a parental consent form for eligible children and adolescents to receive COVID-19 vaccination. You can fill out and submit the following online forms: Parental Consent Form for Medical Services Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Chinese (中文) Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for Behavioral Health Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination in Spanish (Español) Our Program Locations The School Health Program provides medical, behavioral, vision, and dental care through many New York City public schools in the Bronx Contact our School Health Program Hotline at 347-377-3170 and choose the option for medical, behavioral health, or dental services. PS 179/369, 468 East 140th Street: dental services Abraham Lincoln High School, 2800 Ocean Parkway: behavioral health and medical care Boys and Girls High School, 1700 Fulton Street: behavioral health Dewey MS 136, 4004 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care Ditmas JHS 62, 700 Cortelyou Road: dental services Erasmus Hall Educational Campus, 911 Flatbush Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Frank J. Macchiarola Education Complex, 3000 Avenue X, Room 105: behavioral health and medical care George Wingate Educational Campus, 600 Kingston Avenue: behavioral health and medical care IS 291K Roland Hayes, 231 Palmetto Street: dental services Juan Morel Campos Campus, 215 Heyward Street: behavioral health and medical care MS 61, 400 Empire Boulevard: dental services MS 88, 544 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health and dental services MS 898, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services Pershing JHS 220, 4812 Ninth Avenue: dental services and medical care PS 1, 309 47th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 10, 511 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health PS 12/MS 484, 430 Howard Avenue: dental services PS 15, 71 Sullivan Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 24, 427 38th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 25, 787 Lafayette Avenue: dental services PS 40 The George Washington Carver School, 265 Ralph Avenue: dental services PS 90, 2840 West 12th Street: dental services PS 91, 532 Albany Avenue: dental services PS 92, 601 Parkside Avenue: dental services PS 94, 5010 Sixth Avenue: medical care PS 105, 1031 59th Street: dental services PS 135, 684 Linden Boulevard: dental services PS 169, 4305 Seventh Avenue: dental services PS 172, 825 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health and medical care PS 188, 3314 Neptune Avenue: dental services, behavioral health, vision, and medical care PS 194, 3117 Avenue W: dental services PS 196/MS 582, 207 Bushwick Avenue: dental services PS 217, 1100 Newkirk Avenue: dental services PS 243, 1580 Dean Street: dental services PS 257, 60 Cook Street: dental services PS 282, 180 Sixth Avenue: behavioral health and dental services PS 288, 2950 West 25th Street: dental services PS 307, 209 York Street: behavioral health and dental services PS 329/PS 771, 2929 West 30th Street: dental services PS 335, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services PS 503/506, 330 60th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS/IS 157, 850 Kent Avenue: dental services PS 939/MS 936, 270 59th Street: dental services South Shore Educational Complex, 6565 Flatlands Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Sunset Park High School, 153 35th Street: behavioral health and medical care PS 2, 122 Henry Street: dental services PS 28, 475 West 155th Street: dental services PS 38, 232 East 103 Street: dental services PS 124, 40 Division Street: dental services PS 153 and PS 368, 1750 Amsterdam Avenue: dental services PS 171, 19 East 103rd Street: dental services Goldie Maple Academy (PS 333) and Q256 at PS 333, 365 Beach 56th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 14, 107-01 Otis Avenue: dental services PS 19Q Marino P. Jeantet School, 40-10 99th Street, Corona: dental services PS/MS 43Q and P256Q at PS 43, 160 Beach 29th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services Village Academy (MS 319), 10-45 Nameoke Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 18, 221 Broadway: dental services PS 31, 55 Layton Avenue: dental services PS 44, 80 Maple Parkway: dental services Rehabilitation Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Rehabilitation therapy to help adults and children recover after an illness or injury is available through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech–language pathologists, and audiologists are available at the following Rusk Rehabilitation locations: Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Shore Road Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at 60th Street Pediatric Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Pediatricians at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide expert care to children at our center locations as well as within numerous schools throughout New York City. Our experts in pediatrics and adolescent medicine treat children of all ages, from newborns to teenagers and young adults. We provide checkups, immunizations, and health screenings. mental healthcare are also provided. Gynecological and sexual healthcare are available for adolescents and young adults. Specialized care is also available in the following areas: pediatric cardiology, to treat conditions that affect the heart, including pediatric endocrinology, to treat , hormonal disorders, and conditions that affect the thyroid pediatric gastroenterology, to treat conditions that affect digestion and the liver, including celiac disease pediatric nephrology, to treat kidney or urinary tract conditions, including urinary tract infection pediatric neurology, to treat conditions that affect the brain, including pediatric pulmonology, to treat airway, breathing, and lung conditions, including is our primary location for pediatric care. We also care for children at the following Family Health Centers locations: Family Physician Family Health Center Flatbush Family Health Center Park Ridge Family Health Center Park Slope Family Health Center Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Sunset Terrace Family Health Center Care is also available for children through our , which provides medical, dental, and mental healthcare to children in select schools in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island, and the Bronx. Family Strengthening Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Family Strengthening Services, part of , provide the resources people need to achieve health, family stability, and economic self-sufficiency. Programs and services are listed below: Family Support Services Family Support Services provide supportive counseling and case management services. We help people apply for public benefits, address immediate needs such as food insecurity and provide referrals to educational, health, legal, housing, and supportive programs best suited to our clients’ needs. Family support counselors speak multiple languages and are available for walk-in appointments. For more information, please call 718-630-7186 Nutrition Support USDA Nondiscrimination Statement Learn what to do if your application for benefits has been turned down, including how to request a hearing, file a complaint, and more. Read the Statement Our Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program provides nutrition education, supplemental foods, healthcare referrals, and breastfeeding support to pregnant women, infants, and children up to 5 years of age. For more information, please call 718-630-7161 Greenlight offers parent education workshops on healthy eating behaviors for children starting at age two months.  For more information, please call 718-210-1030 The Family Health Centers is also home to a client-choice food pantry, The Table, which provides emergency food to thousands of people each month. The strategic location of emergency food service at the FHC enables participants to be connected to a continuum of wrap-around services, including access to SNAP food stamps and other benefits that will ensure long-term food security and support the health, stability, and self-sufficiency of the entire family. For more information, please call 347-377-4091 Older Adult Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our extensive continuum of Services for Older Adults, part of , is here to help support our aging neighbors and their caregivers in the Sunset Park and Bay Ridge neighborhoods.  These services are a part of the Family Health Centers’ commitment to helping community members stay socially connected, healthy, and active as they age in place. Older Adult Centers We operate two Older Adult Centers (also known as Senior Centers) available to anyone in New York City over the age of 60, providing daily recreational, educational, and health promotion activities as well as a hot and nutritious lunch. Supportive counseling, case assistance, yoga instruction, computer classes, field trips, arts and crafts, and a variety of other activities are offered each month. Please call the Centers directly for more information: Shore Hill Older Adult Center at 9000 Shore Road – 718-630-7588 Sunset Park Older Adult Center at 4520 4th Avenue – 718-210-1050 Social Adult Day Services and Caregiver Support Located in Bay Ridge, our Seniors in Touch social adult day program provides social, recreational, and therapeutic activities to older adults living with cognitive or physical impairments. VIDEO: The Seniors in Touch social adult day program in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, provides a safe space for older adults with cognitive or physical impairments. Our program enhances the overall quality of life, wellbeing, and daily functioning of our participants, while providing peace of mind for their caregivers.  Door-to-door, wheelchair-accessible transportation is available for program participants. Caregiver Support services are offered to caregivers of elderly and frail adults in the community. Monthly support groups, care consultation, and educational workshops are offered. Please call the program at 347-377-5471 , for more details about social adult day and caregiver resources. Community Development Programs at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our community development programs, part of , provide people with the skills they need to effect change in their own lives and in the neighborhoods where they live. This is done through the following programs: Adult Education and Workforce Development The Community Empowerment Program provides English language instruction, high school equivalency, and basic education classes. The program also offers job trainings focused on the health care and early childhood sectors, career counseling, and other workforce readiness supports. For more information about English language instruction, please call 718-630-7150 . For more information about GED prep classes, please call 718-768-0778 Community Engagement and Volunteerism We work with the AmeriCorps National Service program to help place community service volunteers in stipend-paid, full-time, full-year service opportunities. Volunteers work at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations, as well as other partnering agencies. For more information, please call 718-630-7164 .  To apply, please visit: Education and School Readiness Corps CHCANYS Public Health Corps at NYU Langone Food Security Corps Youth & Adolescent Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Through Project Reach Youth, part of , we provide teenagers and young adults with the support they need to be healthy and safe, reach educational and career goals, develop new skills, and prepare for adulthood. GED High School Equivalency Prep Program The Basic Education, Adult Literacy, and GED High School Equivalency Preparation Program provides education, guidance, and support for people age 17 and a half and older who have not completed high school. Classes, tutoring, counseling, and workshops help participants successfully complete the GED exam and prepare for college and a career. For more information on adult education programs, please call Project SAFE Program Project SAFE prevents unintended pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS through evidence-based interventions within a youth development framework, building upon the existing strengths of young people. The program provides youth ages 10 to 19 with support to avoid risky behaviors, develop to their full potential, and become agents of change in their communities. The program model includes evidence-based sexual health workshops, peer-led health education groups and community events, and sexual health services designed to meet the unique needs of adolescents. For more information on the The Project SAFE Teen Health Center, based at the , serves youth between the ages of 13 and 20. Birth control, emergency contraception, gynecological exams, and testing for pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease, and HIV are provided. Health education and counseling are also available. For more information on the Project SAFE Teen Health Center, please call 347-880-8042 Project TRACK Project TRACK is an afterschool program that provides high school students with the resources and opportunities they need to successfully complete high school and transition into college and career. Services include case management, college advisement, college trips, homework help, tutoring, community service opportunities, and enrichment activities including cooking, the arts, and sports. For more information, please call 718-832-4281 Unique Hearts. Same High Standard of Care. We have the nation’s highest rating for cardiac surgery. Digital Health Everywhere Our digital health platforms are revolutionizing the way patients receive care. Meet Karen: Breast Cancer Survivor When her metastatic breast cancer returned, Karen Petersen knew that a clinical trial was her last hope. Dr. Catherine Manno, Chair of Pediatrics Dr. Catherine S. Manno, chair of the Department of Pediatrics, discusses her father’s impact on her career. The Better Health System Dr. Catherine Manno Explore Our Campaigns Adult Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Primary care doctors at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide the treatment you need when you’re not feeling well, and the preventive care that can help keep you healthy. Annual checkups, immunizations, back-to-work physicals, and health screenings are provided by our doctors and nurse practitioners, who serve as your family doctors and are board-certified in internal medicine. We also care for you when you need treatment for an illness such as a cold, flu, or stomach virus. If you need specialized medical care, it is available from our specialists at NYU Langone. They provide care in the following areas: , for heart-related conditions dermatology , for skin-related conditions endocrinology and conditions that affect the thyroid , for conditions that affect digestion gerontology, which is specialized care for older adults hematology and hematology-oncology for blood-related disorders and cancers hepatology , to care for conditions that affect the liver infectious disease care , including testing, treatment, and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) nephrology, to care for kidney-related conditions , for medical conditions and injuries that affect the brain, including , for conditions that affect vision and the eye , to treat conditions that affect the eyes, ear, and nose physiatry, or physical medicine, to help you recover from injury podiatry, to treat conditions that affect the foot pulmonology to treat conditions that affect the lungs and breathing, including , to treat arthritis and other conditions that affect the joints, muscles, and bones urology, to treat conditions such as incontinence and others that affect the male reproductive system We also have experts in the following surgical specialties: for weight loss breast surgery to treat orofacial surgery trauma surgery vascular surgery Nutrition counseling, osteopathic manipulation, pain management, testing for sexually transmitted diseases, substance use disorder treatment, and are also available through our Family Health Center locations. Bilingual care from doctors and nurses who speak Arabic, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Haitian Creole, French, or Russian, is available at designated sites. Adult medicine care is available at the following Family Health Center locations: Conditions We Treat Through Virtual Urgent Care Whether its flu-like symptoms , everyday aches, or another common, non-emergency condition, our providers treat adults and children ages 5 and older. Conditions Our Providers Can Treat Virtual Urgent Care is a convenient option for many everyday health concerns. Below are some of the common conditions we treat. mild fever runny nose sinus pain viral illnesses, including common cold, , respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and COVID-19 Aches and Pains foot and leg pain gout rashes sprains or strains Stomach and Digestive Issues diarrhea and vomiting motion sickness symptoms General Infections cold sores sexually transmitted infections Protection Against HIV Infection pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP ), a medication taken daily to protect against for people who do not have HIV but are at high risk of contracting the infection. We also provide post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) after a possible exposure to body fluid. Conditions Not Treated at Virtual Urgent Care Medical emergencies—including chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others—require immediate care. Please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. You can also visit one of our emergency care locations Urgent Care Visits For conditions not treated at Virtual Urgent Care, schedule an in-person urgent care visit. Learn More About Urgent Care Other serious conditions require an in-person evaluation and therefore cannot be treated through Virtual Urgent Care. Some examples are listed below. Care for these conditions is available through an in-person visit. Acute Injury broken or fractured bones deep or large cuts or lacerations Behavioral or Mental Health Concerns drug overdose mental status changes psychiatric disorders Bleeding Issues blood in the stool coughing up blood unexplained vaginal bleeding and hemorrhage vomiting blood Cardiac and Respiratory Symptoms chest pain or palpitations shortness of breath Chronic Conditions and Symptoms cancer treatment complications sickle cell disease symptoms chronic pain syndrome Conditions That Require a Physical Exam ear pain genital and rectal complaints Neurologic Symptoms acute vision changes severe headache stroke-like symptoms , such as sudden-onset weakness, numbness, or tingling Severe Pain abdominal pain chronic pain ear pain or infection Women’s Health and Men’s Health complications breast complaints genital complaints If you or your child requires an in-person doctor’s visit, we can help you and schedule an appointment. Follow-up care for children is provided through Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides treatment and support for people and families who are experiencing mental health disorders across all age ranges. We also provide care to patients in their preferred language, both in person and virtually. Our care providers are committed to inclusivity and respect the needs of the diverse population we serve, which includes the LGBTQ+ community If you or a loved one need urgent mental healthcare, services are available at the . Intensive therapy and care are also available through our inpatient psychiatric unit at is the primary location for mental healthcare services at the Family Health Centers. Integrated and Collaborative Care This type of short-term care is provided in your primary care office and with the collaboration of your primary care providers. To use this service, you must be referred by your primary care provider. Licensed social workers provide collaborative behavioral healthcare at the following locations: Community Medicine Behavioral Health Program Licensed social workers, psychiatrists, and psychiatric nurse practitioners provide mental health services at homeless shelters through the , we offer behavioral health and psychiatric treatment for students in over 20 public schools in Brooklyn, Queens, and Manhattan through our School Health Program. Mental health services are provided by licensed social workers at schools served by the program, and if medication intervention is indicated, students are referred to a psychiatrist or psychiatric nurse practitioner. Behavioral Health Services at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, our team of physicians, psychiatric nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, and mental health counselors helps restore, maintain, and enhance the wellbeing of adults, adolescents, and children who have mental health disorders. Parental Consent for Behavioral Health Care For a child to receive medical care through the Behavioral Health Program, parents are required to complete a consent form. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Minors Serving as the hub for outpatient behavioral health services, this clinic offers specialized outpatient care for children as young as 5 years old, adolescents, and adults, including older adults. The clinic offers specialized programs specialized programs in trauma-informed dyadic treatment, early psychosis, substance use disorders, and crisis recovery. Adult Behavioral Health Consent Form Adults are required to complete a consent form before receiving behavioral health services. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Adults For information about eligibility for services, please call 718-437-5210 Care is provided for people experiencing , mood and , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in , insomnia, and and psychotic disorders, as well as other mental health conditions. Substance Use Treatment At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, we provide therapy for people who have been diagnosed with a mental health condition and are also coping with substance use issues such as opioid addiction and alcoholism. Medical treatment for substance use disorder is available through our adult medicine primary care program Specialized Mental Health Programs Specialized mental health programs are also available at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center for patients with chronic suicidality, serious mental illness, and first-break psychosis. Clinical Education Programs The Sunset Terrace Family Health Center hosts many trainees, from undergraduates through postdoctorates, and many of them go on to pursue careers in public and community mental health. We are also home to core training programs in psychiatry and psychology. Find out more about our psychology externship training program, for students enrolled in a clinical, counseling, or school psychology doctoral program, and our psychology internship. We also host a psychiatry residency program Group Sessions Our clinic offers many groups, both in person and virtual, with topics that include wellness, resilience, and health. Learn more. Early Childhood Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our Early Childhood Services, part of , help prepare children for school and support parents and caregivers in building stable and caring relationships with their children. Our services include the following programs: Early Childhood Centers We operate four full-day, year-round early childhood centers for children. Our teachers and caregivers create supportive, stimulating, and enriching environments. Locations include: Magical Years Early Childhood Center: 220 60th Street, Brooklyn NY, 11220; 718-439-0450 Seventh Avenue Preschool: 4419 Seventh Avenue,