Facial Reanimation Illustration depicting four possible nerve connections utilized in the new multigraft facial reanimation approach. IMAGE: Andrew Lee, MD, artist. A Multiplex Approach to Facial Reanimation For patients with partial or total facial paralysis, surgeons at NYU Langone Health have developed a new approach to facial reanimation. The approach connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves to improve segmented movement. Traditionally, either the main trunk or a single division of the facial nerve is attached to a single nerve for reanimation, which can result in mass movement (synkinesis). This oversimplified approach does not account for the way the facial nerve divides and segments across five distinct facial areas, says Adam S. Jacobson, MD , chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery. “To me, it never made sense to graft the main facial nerve together and expect it to perform the same way, with signals reaching their rightful places.” Jacobson and colleagues including , chief of microsurgery, and , director of the Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, developed the multigraft technique to offer surgeons a more consistent, nuanced approach to facial reanimation. Says Dr. Levine, “We’re giving multiple inputs to the damaged nerves, so over time they start sequentially taking over and giving different levels of control to the segments of the face.” “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach.” Each harvested nerve is selected based upon the needs of each facial region, Dr. Levine adds. “For example, the ansa cervicalis offers tone to the vocal chords, so we’re using it in the eyes—an area where we wanted tone. For the midface division, we needed power, and looked to the masseteric nerve.” The new technique reduces mass facial movements which can have life-altering effects for patients. “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach or the traditional facial reanimation approach,” Dr. Jacobson says. “The sooner a nerve transfer surgery is performed, the better the functional outcomes.” Enhanced Segmented Movement via Multiple Grafts A patient demonstrating left facial paralysis. A new approach to facial reanimation developed by surgeons at NYU Langone Health connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves. The technique is applicable for patients with abnormal nerve growth, such as those with Bell’s palsy, or patients with nerve loss whether due to a degenerative condition or prior surgery. Here, a patient demonstrates left facial paralysis possibly due to a genicular ganglion hemangioma. Up to Four Distinct Nerve Connections The masseteric nerve is connected to the distal end of the midface division. The lower division of the facial nerve is connected to the hypoglossal nerve to animate the lower face. The ansa cervicalis is connected to the upper division of the face to give tone to the eye muscles. A cross-face nerve graft may be used to innervate the affected midface with input from the intact contralateral midface division. Rapid Functional Improvement Surgeon’s view during a nerve graft procedure. The nuanced reconstruction technique requires muscular transfer or transplant and takes longer than traditional facial reanimation techniques as each nerve is transferred and carefully grafted. However, surgeons have not observed significantly longer patient recovery times, with most patients experiencing some functional recovery 3–12 months after surgery. Facial Reanimation with Less Synkinesis A patient demonstrating segmented movement following multigraft facial reanimation to address left facial paralysis. Patients benefit from facial reinnervation that enables specialized movement, with less synkinesis than traditional single-graft techniques. Here, the patient who experienced left facial paralysis demonstrates segmented movement made possible by the multigraft technique. Follow-up photos were taken two years post-surgery. Head & Neck Surgery, Surgical Oncology Adam S. Jacobson, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery, and co-director of the Head and Neck Center. Plastic Surgery, Microsurgery Jamie P. Levine, MD, is an associate professor of plastic surgery and Chief of Microsurgery. His research and clinical interests include facial reconstructive surgery, mammaplasty, bloodless surgery, and abdominoplasty. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment Babak Givi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Sentinel node biopsy offers a less invasive alternative to cervical lymphadenectomy, or neck dissection, in oral cavity cancers. More traditional resection of tongue and other oral cavity tumors, which involves removing all surrounding lymph nodes, is often unnecessary in early stage disease and can carry complications such as nerve injury, fibrosis, and scarring. “We’ve known that as many as 70 to 80 percent of patients don’t need to have their lymph nodes removed, but because those other 20 to 30 percent of patients have very poor outcomes, it’s done out of an abundance of caution,” explains , a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers. Dr. Givi is the trial site principal investigator at NYU Langone Health for a multi-institutional randomized controlled trial examining the long-term cure rate of sentinel node biopsy compared to neck dissection. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” “My hope is that as we follow these patients, safety and effectiveness data will be convincing, so the minimal approach can be routinely adopted,” explains Dr. Givi. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” Advanced Imaging Key to Targeting Treatment Patients with early-stage tumors are first evaluated by PET scan to ensure there is no identifiable disease in the neck or beyond. If the paitent is cleared, the surgeon injects an advanced lymphocyte radiotracer designed to track lymph nodes around the tumor. Using high-precision three-dimensional (3D) single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) imaging, Elcin Zan, MD , a specialist in neuroradiology, follows the path of the tracer to the lymph nodes. She then fuses the CT images with nuclear medicine scans to provide a clear visualization of the most at-risk nodes. In the operating room, the surgeon removes the primary oral tumor, then uses a gamma counter to navigate precisely toward at-risk nodes. Only those nodes showing tracer activity are removed and examined. If the selected nodes show no evidence of metastasis, and no others show evidence of tracer uptake, the procedure concludes. Patients can return home the same day with only a tiny incision. “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy.” Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy out of caution,” explains , chief of head and neck surgery at and a member of the multidisciplinary team who perform the procedures. In addition to reducing treatment burden, the newer method’s precision offers insights about the interaction between oral tumors and lymph nodes. By revealing the metastatic pathways of certain tumors, the dynamic imaging demonstrates common patterns of oral cancers. “It’s become clear, for example, that tongue tumors rarely reach nodes beyond the upper neck area—yet we used to remove these nodes routinely,” notes Dr. Givi. Expanding Adoption: Research and Education The national study that Dr. Givi is helping to lead will follow indicators of long-term functional outcomes, such as fibrosis and muscle weakness near the surgical area, to confirm the benefits of sentinel node biopsy. Along with disease-free survival as a co-primary endpoint, the data will reveal whether the approach enables informed decision-making to spare some patients from the potential complications of elective node dissection. In addition to his ongoing research, Dr. Givi hopes his recent appointment as vice chair of education for the American Head and Neck Society will be a platform to help increase awareness about sentinel node biopsy. “Only a small number of eligible patients are offered this approach,” concludes Dr. Givi. “If more surgeons see how precise it is, and the positive outcomes it can deliver, more patients can benefit from it.” Babak Givi, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. He is a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers, and his research emphasizes quality of care and outcome of treatments. Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and chief of head and neck surgery at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive approaches for patients with oral and other head and neck cancers. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Immune T cells (purple) excluded from skin tumors, or melanoma (white), leak out through lymphatic vessels (green). Antigen-specific CD8 T cell accumulation in tumors is crucial for effective immunotherapy. Data indicate that lymphatic vessels and their transport function may impede this process under some conditions. Yet the mechanisms by which lymphatic vessels affect CD8 effector T cell function within the tumor microenvironment (TME) are not well characterized. Nature Immunology , a team led by NYU Langone Health and researchers clarified key aspects of these interactions in melanoma. The scientists also found a way to keep CD8 T cells from exiting cutaneous tumors—and showed that doing so in conjunction with immune checkpoint blockade could significantly decrease tumor growth. “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma.” Amanda W. Lund, PhD “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma,” says senior investigator , an associate professor of dermatology and pathology. Maria Steele, PhD, a former postdoctoral fellow in the , served as study lead investigator. Pinpointing the Role of Lymphatic Transport Previous research has shown that CD8 T cells (among other types) can migrate out of tumors into lymphatic vessels. In addition, an earlier study by Dr. Lund and colleagues demonstrated that adoptive T cell therapy for melanoma is enhanced in mice engineered to lack dermal lymphatic vessels compared to wild-type controls. Such findings led Dr. Lund and her research team to hypothesize that functional lymphatic vessels may limit the efficacy of tumor-specific CD8 T cells by facilitating their exit from the TME. In their new study, the researchers sought to understand how this escape route operated and how it might be interrupted. The team began by tracking transferred antigen-specific CD8 T cells in vivo in the absence of dermal lymphatic vessels. These cells equally infiltrated melanoma tumors in both lymphatic-deficient and wild-type mice. By day 7 after transfer, however, more T cells had accumulated in lymphatic-deficient tumors, even though their proliferation was lower. These data confirmed that lymphatic transport decreases the retention of therapeutic T cells. Blocking an Escape Signal To determine how retention could be increased, the team investigated chemokine pathways whose surface expression was regulated in concert with intratumoral activation and progressive dysfunction. They found that the chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor protein CXCR4 attract CD8 T cells toward the tumor periphery, limiting their target engagement and encouraging their escape into lymphatic vessels. When the researchers blocked this signaling pathway using the CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100, T cells no longer migrated to the periphery. And with continuous administration of the drug, their numbers within the TME doubled. These changes suggested that blocking the CXCR4 pathway would also prime the TME for response to immunotherapy. To test the therapeutic impact of AMD3100 in the context of immune checkpoint blockade, the team administered the drug both with and without an anti–PD-L1 inhibitor to mice with established melanoma tumors. Alone, the CXCR4 antagonist did not have statistically significant effects. In combination with the immune checkpoint inhibitor, however, it arrested growth in approximately half of the tumors. Immunotherapy alone had previously failed to stop the cancer’s proliferation. “These results suggest that it is not only about getting T cells into the melanoma tumor, but also about getting them to the right place with the right signals to drive the most specific and durable immune responses,” says Dr. Lund. In future research, the team will investigate other molecular pathways in lymphatic vessels to increase the “dwell time” of CD8 T cells within tumors. Dr. Lund is a paid consultant for AGS Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical company that was not involved in the study. Dermatology, Pathology, Cancer Biology Amanda W. Lund, PhD, is an associate professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology and the Department of Pathology. Her research centers on the role of the lymphatic vasculature in regulating cutaneous tumor immunity, with the ultimate goal of enhancing cancer immunotherapy. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors With $1.7 million in funding from a Drug Discovery Award from The Mark Foundation for Cancer Research, investigator , and a colleague at the University of British Columbia are seeking to identify a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of the amino acid transporter SLC38A2/SNAT2 as a potential treatment for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging and are a major step forward to credentialing SLC38A2 as a potential target in this deadly disease,” says Dr. Kimmelman, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the and senior advisor to the dean for cancer strategy and operations at NYU Langone Health. “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging.” One of the deadliest forms of cancer, PDAC has a five-year survival rate of approximately 10 percent . Most patients present with tumors that are unresectable, and standard-of-care chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors offer minimal improvements. “Therapeutic options for patients with pancreatic cancer remain severely limited, and any novel targets warrant significant study,” Dr. Kimmelman says. Building on Previous Discoveries An internationally recognized leader in the cancer metabolism field, Dr. Kimmelman has identified several novel metabolic pathways in PDAC. He shares The Mark Foundation award with Seth Parker, PhD, an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at the University of British Columbia and a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Kimmelman’s NYU Langone lab. The investigative trail that led to their current collaboration began with a study Dr. Kimmelman and his team published in 2016 in . In that work, the researchers found that in the nutrient-poor environment of the stroma, pancreatic cancer cells signal pancreatic stellate cells to secrete non-essential amino acids, including alanine. The cancer then uses alanine as a fuel source in place of glucose In a subsequent study, published in 2020 in Cancer Discovery , Dr. Parker led a team of researchers in Dr. Kimmelman’s lab who found that pancreatic cancer cells use SLC38A2/SNAT2 to take up alanine from their microenvironment. The researchers showed that genetically targeting the transporter created a metabolic crisis in cultures of pancreatic tumor cells, impeding their growth. The group also demonstrated that targeting SLC38A2/SNAT2 in animal models, using genetic tools such as CRISPR, shrinks pancreatic tumors. “It has been an exciting journey from our first observations that pancreatic cancer cells can use fuel from neighboring cells in these nutrient-poor tumors to, more recently, identifying the key molecular mechanisms of how this nutrient sharing occurs,” Dr. Kimmelman says. An Ambitious Goal In the new study, Dr. Kimmelman and Dr. Parker and their colleagues will develop a cell-based SLC38A2 uptake assay and screen a large chemical library. Confirmed hits will be subjected to medicinal chemistry review, further validation, and extensive profiling for in vitro and in vivo activity, specificity, and selectivity in PDAC cells and tumors. Identified leads will serve as chemical scaffolds for future medicinal chemistry–led optimization. In addition to The Mark Foundation grant, the project is supported by funds from Technology Opportunities and Ventures , the technology commercialization arm of NYU Langone. “This generous influx of support,” says Dr. Kimmelman, “enables us to pursue our ultimate goal—to bring a compound forward for the clinical development of a treatment for pancreatic cancer.” Dr. Kimmelman has financial interests in Vescor Therapeutics and is an inventor on patents pertaining to KRAS-regulated metabolic pathways and redox control pathways in pancreatic cancer, targeting GOT1 as a therapeutic approach, targeting alanine transport, and the autophagic control of iron metabolism. He is on the scientific advisory board of Rafael/Cornerstone Pharmaceuticals and OncoRev and has been a consultant for Deciphena and Abbvie. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Matina Balou, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Physicians and speech-language pathologists in NYU Langone’s Voice Center are participating in multiple studies aimed at determining the elusive causes and mechanisms of dysphagia and finding improved methods for predicting and diagnosing the disorder. one-year pilot study —a multidisciplinary collaboration with the , and the Department of Communicative Sciences and Disorders at NYU Steinhardt—is investigating long-term dysphagia and dysphonia in patients who have anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) spine surgery. A particular challenge to understanding the prevalence and pathophysiology of dysphagia post-ACDF is distinguishing a short-term impairment caused by post-surgical edema from a more serious long-term iatrogenic injury to the swallowing nerves and muscles at risk during the surgery, says Matina Balou, PhD , a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology-head neck surgery. Expected Edema vs. Atypical Swallowing Postsurgical edema alone typically resolves in the first few months, Dr. Balou says. Patients who are still experiencing dysphagia after that time are referred to speech-language pathology for a swallow evaluation. “Currently, by the time patients come to us with symptoms, they have already suffered for several months,” says Dr. Balou. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” After reviewing approximately 2,000 articles, the researchers found that nearly half of studies that described the problem of dysphagia after ACDF utilized the Bazaz scale, a simple, two-question, patient-reported measure. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” “This is a multifactorial problem that demands more than a yes/no analysis,” says Dr. Balou. “Most patients say they have swallowing issues post-surgery, but it doesn’t necessarily translate into weakness or destruction.” Identifying Predictive Measures Working with a group of neurosurgeons led by Anthony K. Frempong-Boadu, MD , co-director of the Spine Center, the pilot study will follow 20 patients through their ACDF surgery and recovery. Participants are examined through two visits at the Voice Center—six weeks pre-ACDF and six weeks post-ACDF—with the research team conducting three primary evaluations: a videofluoroscopic swallow study (VFSS), measures of pharyngeal edema using an acoustic pharyngometer, and an acoustic voice sample. Additionally, the researchers administer pre-and post-surgery questionnaires. “We are one of the only centers that has the videofluoroscopy equipment on site, which makes it easier for patients to participate in our research,” Dr. Balou notes. Of seven participants who have currently completed their surgeries, three have had to enroll in swallowing therapy pre-op to improve safety and efficacy. The team hopes to determine whether acoustic pharyngometer and voice sample can be validated as accurate noninvasive measures of edema, data that will pave the way toward a future multicenter research study. An additional goal is to describe the physiology of swallowing post-ACDF, uncovering data that could predict which patients might experience long-term impairment. Expanding Dysphagia Evaluation Voice Center researchers are also using videofluoroscopy, high-resolution manometry, and other advanced imaging to establish predictive measures for dysphagia caused by conditions such as stroke, pulmonary disease, head and neck cancer, spinal cord injury, and aging. Dr. Balou describes a portfolio of ongoing studies. One study seeks to determine if swallowing problems can be predicted in the ENT office setting using findings on flexible laryngoscopy prior to gold standard VFSS/endoscopic swallow evaluation. A separate longitudinal study is evaluating dysphagia in pulmonary patients with non-tuberculous mycobacteria. Another observational study has reviewed phenotypes of the epiglottis to collect classification data for creating a dysphagia prediction system. “It’s difficult to tease apart which part of the throat is not doing what it’s supposed to do,” Dr. Balou says. “The truth is that we do multiple swallowing evaluations every day and prescribe exercises that work. What we are lacking is treatment studies—there’s a gap in the literature. But we are improving patients, I see it every day.” Matina Balou, PhD, is an assistant clinical professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine. The focus of her clinical work and research is on understanding, preventing, and treating dysphagia. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research An early-career investigator discusses the impact of receiving one of the NIH’s most prestigious grants. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 New research shows importance of boosters to maintain protection against COVID-19 in patients with SLE. Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases NYU Langone co-leads major public–private partnership to clarify pathways in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An implanted pacemaker-like device could quell overactive lymphocytes and reduce symptoms. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients Adding patient-reported outcomes and health equity data to major lupus registry could aid new care strategies. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? Research probes if patients with mental health stressors could require unique interventions. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting This November, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Rheumatology’s 2022 Annual Convergence Meeting in Philadelphia. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Saturday, November 12 Dual (and Dueling) Fibroblast Differentiation Is Integral to the Pathogenesis of Anti-Ro Mediated Congenital Heart Block and Provides a Novel Biomarker of Severity : Pediatric Rheumatology – Basic Science Poster Jill Buyon, MD , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Christina Firl; Nicola Fraser; Mala Masson; and Amit Saxena, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 1–3 p.m. Sunday, November 13 Postoperative Flares and Peri-arthroscopic Management of Immunosuppressive Medications in Patients with Rheumatic Disease : Orthopedics, Low Back Pain, and Rehabilitation Poster : Amanda Avila; Laith Jazrawi, MD , Professor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery; Charles Lin; David Marulanda; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Dhruv Shankar; and Kinjal Vasvada, NYU Langone : 9–10:30 a.m. Thrombocytopenia and Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia in Antiphospholipid Antibody-positive Patients: Descriptive Analysis of the AntiPhospholipid Syndrome Alliance for Clinical Trials and InternatiOnal Networking (APS ACTION) Clinical Database and Repository : Antiphospholipid Syndrome Poster H. Michael Belmont, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10–10:05 a.m. Contribution of Antibody Titers/Specificities to Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes in a Multicenter Prospective Study of anti-Ro Positive Mothers : Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders Poster , Professor, Department of Medicine; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Philip Carlucci; Robert Clancy; Nicola Fraser; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Peter Izmirly, MD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Fardina Malik, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Julie Nusbaum, MD Christina Penfield, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Colin Phoon, MD , Professor, Department of Pediatrics; Paula Rackoff, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Ashley Roman, MD , Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; and Bruce Solitar, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Prevalence of Secondary Connective Tissue Diseases and Autoantibodies Among Racial and Ethnic Groups in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients in the Manhattan Lupus Surveillance Program : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster II: Manifestations : Brendan Denvir; Philip Carlucci; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Kelly Corbitt, DO , Rheumatology Fellow; and Monday, November 14 In Utero Exposure to Hydroxychloroquine Does Not Associate with Ocular Toxicity as Assessed by Optical Coherence Tomography Five Years After Birth : Abstracts: Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and Mala Masson, NYU Langone 11:15–11:25 a.m. Lupus Clinical Flares in Patients with Gut Pathobiont Blooms Share a Novel Peripheral Blood Transcriptomic Immune Activation Profile : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes III: Genetic Factors Gregg Silverman, MD , Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : Doua Azzouz; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Macintosh Cornwell; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Kelly Ruggles, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and , NYU Langone : 3:15–3:25 p.m. COVID-19 Infections, Morbidity, and Seroreactivity in SLE Patients Following Initial Vaccination Series and Additional Dose Through the New York City Omicron BA.1 Wave : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster III: Outcomes : Brittany Banbury; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Alexis Engel; Nicola Fraser, , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Ghadeer Hasan; Gary Ho, MD , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Jammie Law; Mala Masson; Jose Scher, MD , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Chung-E Tseng, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Devyn Zaminski, NYU Langone Long-term Use of Voclosporin in Patients with Class V Lupus Nephritis: Results from the AURORA 2 Continuation Study : SLE – Treatment Poster I : 1:25–1:30 p.m. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte Ratio Among Flaring and Non-flaring Uncontrolled Gout Patients Undergoing Pegloticase Therapy as Part of the Phase 3 Pivotal Trials : Metabolic and Crystal Arthropathies – Basic and Clinical Science Michael Pillinger, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine Effects of Short Chain Fatty Acid Supplementation in Modulation of Gut Microbiome and T-Regulatory Cells in Health and New Onset Rheumatoid Arthritis : RA – Treatment Poster IV Rebecca Blank, MD, PhD , Instructor, Department of Medicine; Sydney Catron; Anthony Jimenez Hernandez; , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Zakwan Uddin, NYU Langone Time: 1–3 p.m. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired John-Ross Rizzo, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For the world’s 39 million blind and 246 million low-vision individuals, impaired navigational ability negatively impacts income, physical and mental health, and quality of life. Advanced wearables can provide assistance superior to the traditional white cane, but many are prohibitively expensive. In addition, adapting devices for indoor use typically requires infrastructure—such as Wi-Fi or visual light communication (VLC) transmitters—that may be scarce in low- and middle-income countries. Rusk Rehabilitation researchers at NYU Langone Health, in concert with partners in Thailand, are developing a platform designed to overcome these obstacles. Known as VIS ION (Visually Impaired Smart Service System for Spatial Intelligence and Onboard Navigation), the platform consists of an on-person navigational and computing functional aid paired with microservices through the cloud. The team, led by John-Ross Rizzo, MD , recently received funding from the NIH’s National Eye Institute and Fogarty International Center to begin testing the system at Ratchasuda College, a school for disabled students affiliated with Mahidol University in Bangkok. Linking Inexpensive Hardware to Next-Generation Tech The VIS ION platform provides real-time situational and obstacle awareness via a backpack fitted with five main components: 1) distance, ranging, and image sensors; 2) an embedded microcomputer; 3) a haptic interface via waist strap; 4) a headset with binaural bone conduction speakers and a noise-cancelling microphone; and 5) a GPS module. “Unlike some other digital navigational aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons,” Dr. Rizzo explains. Instead, the platform leverages stereo cameras as its sensing foundation. Using 3D semantic mapping and localization technology, the system registers images to a database of maps recorded at centimeter scale. The wearer receives information through audible messages and vibrotactile prompts. In areas with Wi-Fi or cellular service, the localization network utilizes cloud computing. When no connection is available, however, the system can operate fully on-board. “Unlike some other digital navigation aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons.” Another cost-saving feature is the platform’s use of images acquired via Google and through citizen science. Volunteers can record their wayfinding with mobile phones, uploading images and GPS coordinates to the mapping database. Participants in trials of VIS ION will also help populate the database during navigation. Refining the System in a Global Setting In the first phase of the NIH-funded study, the researchers will implement semantic segmentation and image-query-based localization networks on the Ratchusada campus. They will deploy the augmented platform with visually impaired students, and assess for acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility. Pending success, the team will progress to the second phase—further enhancing the platform over an extended period, and selecting an additional urban area in Bangkok for generalizability testing. “We anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems.” “Although initial costs of VIS ION may be high, we anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems,” Dr. Rizzo says. “We’re using an approach that leverages input from study participants for improved function and usability, aimed at ultimately benefitting visually impaired persons worldwide.” John-Ross Rizzo, MD, is the Ilse Melamid Associate Professor and vice chair of Equity and Innovation, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of neurology. His research interests center on the development of assistive technology for the visually impaired as well as eye-hand coordination after stroke and brain injury. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 This fall in Chicago, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the World Cornea Congress VIII, September 28–29, directly followed by the American Academy of Ophthalmology Annual Meeting, September 30–October 3. View World Cornea Congress program schedule view AAO conference information and abstract titles , Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, is Past President of the Cornea Society and served as one of this year’s three program directors. Below are notable sessions from both conferences featuring our faculty and trainees. World Cornea Congress Wednesday, September 28 How to Image the Opaque Pediatric Cornea Christina Prescott, MD, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W193 Thursday, September 29 Spotlight: Fuchs Dystrophy Moderator: , Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D. Professor of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W190 Pediatric Corneal Transplantation Real World Experience: Cornea Findings in Patients Undergoing Treatment with Belantamab Mafodotin Presenting Author: Rebecca McGee, MD , Postgraduate Year 3 Resident, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Co-Authors: Ilyse Haberman, MD , Assistant Professor; Douglas Lazzaro, MD AAO 2022 Friday, September 30–Monday, October 3 Clinical Outcomes from Symptomatic Horseshoe Retinal Tears Following Laser Retinopexy Co-Author: , Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Session: PO416 MicroShunt vs. Trabeculectomy Complete Success Rates by Target IOP: Two-Year Outcomes of a Randomized, Multicenter Study Joseph Panarelli, MD Session: PO162 Which Endothelial Keratoplasty Should I Choose? Ask The Expert: Session: ASK10V Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health How do comorbidities and disparities in overall health cluster among different subsets of patients living with lupus? Through a new five-year project funded by the CDC, NYU Langone Health researchers will address this question by examining a variety of clinical and nonclinical factors within the health system’s highly diverse patient cohort, SAMPLE Harnessing Epidemiology to Advance Lupus Treatment and Health , or HEALTH, study will offer a unique perspective due to the collaboration of NYU Langone rheumatologists and population health experts. “Are there other things going hand in hand with lupus as comorbid conditions that no one’s really looked at?” asks Heather T. Gold, PhD , a professor of population health, who will partner with rheumatology researchers including Jill P. Buyon, MD , on the study. Dr. Gold, who lives with lupus herself, says her personal experience as a patient of over 25 years will inform her work. “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” The study will also measure the burden of lupus on patients’ quality of life, and develop and evaluate a home-based strategy to identify early lupus nephritis in high-risk patients. “These research ideas start with seeing patients and listening to what they have to say,” says Dr. Izmirly. “The home monitoring idea, for instance, is a way to