Clinical Decision Making and Special Populations , Allan George, MA : 3:30–5:30 pm Is Fatigue Response to tDCS Mediated by Change in Affect? An Open-label tDCS-MRI Study S27 – MS Neuroimaging 2:48–3 pm Remotely Supervised tDCS for Persistent Post-Traumatic Headache in Veterans (ReStore) P7 – Neuro Trauma and Sports Neurology: Symptoms and Therapies 8–9 am Symptom stability throughout Ocrelizumab infusion cycle in patients with Multiple Sclerosis: final results of SYMptom Burden on Ocrelizumab, a Longitudinal Study (SYMBOLS) P7 – MS Therapeutics 1 Cheongeun Oh, PhD , Tamar Bacon African-Americans with Multiple Sclerosis Have a Higher Proportion of B-Cell Lineage Cells in Their Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Than White Patients P9 – MS Special Populations 5:30–6:30 pm Wednesday, April 26 Vigilance Improves in People with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Fatigue following Repeated Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Sessions Paired with Cognitive Training Delivered at Home S38 -Neuro-Rehabilitation Catherine Cho, MD : 3:54–4:02 pm Longitudinal Brain Volume Findings in an Outpatient Practice of Young People with MS P11 – MS Neuroimaging 2 11:45 am–12:45 pm Thursday, April 27 One year follow-up of neurologic symptoms in non-hospitalized neurology outpatients with post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) S49 – General Neurology Sujata P. Thawani, MD, MPH 5:06 pm Seminar Session Brain Fog Post-COVID and Intersection with Neurodegeneration C195 – Sequelae of COVID-19 1–3 pm Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s Perlmutter Cancer Center researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research annual meeting in Orlando, Florida. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year. Saturday, April 15 The lymph-borne melanoma proteome conditions lymph nodes for metastasis : 8:30–8:50 am Cancer cell states and plasticity in drug-induced adaptation Gustavo Starvaggi França, PhD Plenary Session PL01 – Beating KRAS: A 30-Year Overnight Sensation 4:15–6:15 pm Sunday, April 16 A personalized cancer vaccine, mRNA-4157, combined with pembrolizumab versus pembrolizumab in patients with resected high-risk melanoma: Efficacy and safety results from the randomized, open-label Phase 2 mRNA-4157-P201/Keynote-942 trial 12:45–1 pm 396 / 22 – Role of PHF8 in resistance to melanoma targeted therapies Senior Author Eva Hernando-Monge, PhD : 1:30–5 pm Monday, April 17 Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Scott E. Sherman, MD : 2:58–3:06 pm 1794 / 28 – Targeting mammalian SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes to improve T cell-based cancer immunotherapies Lead Author Elena Battistello, PhD : 9 am–12:30 pm 2283 / 30 – An immunosuppressive ectoenzyme-expressing T cell population is associated with non-responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic melanoma patients : Ankita Mitra, PhD CT052 / 10 – A phase 1/2 randomized study of imvotamab monotherapy and in combinationwith loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD SY26-01 – Mapping cellular plasticity in tumor progression and drug resistance Itai Yanai, PhD : 10:45–11:05 am 2819 / 10 – Genome-wide CRISPR screen identifies NANP as a radio-sensitizing target of GBM by regulating NF-κB pathway CT028 – A first-in-human phase 1 study of LY3537982, a highly selective and potent KRAS G12C inhibitor in patients with KRAS G12C-mutant advanced solid tumors Joshua K. Sabari, MD : 2:35–2:45 pm 3511 – Melanoma-shed, lymph-borne CSPG4 conditions the pre-metastatic lymph node niche : Haley duBois Amanda W. Lund, PhD : 2:37–2:52 pm Tuesday, April 18 SY17 – The Duplicitous Tumor Microenvironment : 12:30–2 pm MS.ET01.01 – New Tricks for Known Targets: Novel Approaches to Inhibit Oncogenic Signaling Janice Mehnert, MD 2:30–4:30 pm Health equity approaches to cancer prevention and control Chau Trinh-Shevrin, DrPH : 7–7:45 am Wednesday, April 19 Late Breaker LB291 / 4 – Uncovering gene fusions with 3D genomics: from clinical validation to actionable insights for undiagnosable solid tumors LB354 / 22 – 9p arm loss is an important predictor of immune evasion in several human cancers Author Joy Bianchi, PhD Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Blood and Marrow Transplant Program director shares advances driven by outpatient services, haploidentical transplant, and more. Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions Study suggests patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI with an initial negative biopsy should be promptly re-evaluated. Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care Researchers at a first-of-its-kind center will study the impact of telehealth technology on cancer care in veterans. Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer Key glycolytic enzymes acting as oncogenes may provide a novel path to overcoming cisplatin resistance. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Study offers a two-year view of erectile function following PGCA. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Significant gut microbiome instability was observed in patients with lupus that included transient growth spikes of RG and several other pathogenic species. ADAPTED FROM: Ann Rheum Dis . 2023;82:1315-1327. A genetic basis for the overgrowth of certain RG strains in patients with lupus flares is proposed. The researchers identified 34 genes that may provide the bacteria a growth advantage in an inflamed gut and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans recognized as inflammatory triggers. New research Annals of Rheumatic Diseases sheds light on the role that a specific gut bacterium may play in triggering flares and serious symptoms in people with severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In the study, researchers observed that significant blooms of Ruminococcus (blautia) gnavus (RG) are common during high-disease activity but never seen in healthy counterparts. They also identified an immunologic response to the bacterium that may contribute to the inflammation associated with disease flare-ups. Prior research by lead investigator and rheumatologist-immunologist , has shown that RG blooms themselves weaken the gut wall barrier, prompting the release from the gut of bacterial factors that stoke an overactive immune response and inflammation. “These findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont R. gnavus is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis.” “These newest findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis,” says Dr. Silverman. The RG gut bacterial blooms appear to trigger a cascade of immunologic activity associated with inflammation. From the RG strains isolated during flares, researchers identified 34 genes with established links to the bacterium’s growth in patients with inflammation. The team also investigated the patients’ immune response to the bacteria and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans known to trigger inflammation. The lipoglycans were common in RG strains in patients with lupus, but not in the study’s healthy control group. The presence of RG blooms concurrent with lupus flare-ups, along with the immune responses to the RG bacteria, suggests a biological pathway for lupus that could be targeted with future treatments. “As we continue to uncover how lipoglycans from bacteria trigger an immune response—and, in turn, inflammation—the hope is that we might turn to less toxic antibacterial therapies that target bacterial imbalance rather than dampen the immune system that protects us from infections like COVID,” Dr. Silverman says. Immunology Gregg Silverman, MD, is the Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine in the Department of Medicine and a professor in the Department of Pathology. He specializes in elucidating the immunologic factors underlying lupus and other inflammatory diseases. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, and David J. Byun, MD NYU Langone Health is launching a new research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy, with a unique vision to foster collaborative models that will co-localize clinicians and researchers with expertise in radiology, radiation oncology, medical physics, and cancer biology. Working together, this new team will develop novel precision radiation therapy platforms to more precisely target and treat cancer. The program is led by David J. Byun, MD , a radiation oncologist at Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD , an MRI scientist and a professor of radiology. Here, they discuss how their different footholds in clinical and translational science, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are poised to position the institution as a hub for innovation in cancer care. Advancing Precision in Cancer Treatment As co-leaders of the new research program, could you elaborate on your roles and the program’s mission? Dr. Lattanzi: The creation of this interdisciplinary research program is a collaborative effort between the Departments of , as well as key partners from industry. I’m currently the director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging and training group chair for the at NYU Langone, and will be responsible for the imaging aspects of the new program. We anticipate this new initiative will allow for greater synergy between imaging researchers and radiation oncologists at the institution. The partnerships we’ve developed with Philips and Elekta, two major companies in the field, will help us fund some of our projects and serve as a critical resource for the clinical translation of new techniques we plan to develop for precision radiotherapy. “One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort.” Dr. Byun: As a radiation oncologist, I have a special clinical and research focus on advanced imaging–guided radiotherapy. At the core of our mission is for this partnership to foster a spirit of collaboration between our world-renowned departments. One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort. Benefits of the MR-Linac The cornerstone of the research program will be the MRI-Linear Accelerator (MR-Linac). Could you explain the significance of this technology? The Unity MR-Linac machine combines high-resolution MRI and a photon linear accelerator to treat tumors more precisely than currently available radiograph-based techniques. The technology will help to overcome many of the issues we commonly encounter within the conventional radiation treatment paradigm. With this novel platform, we can now adapt and eventually react in real time to anatomic changes, personalizing our treatment plan rather than using a “one-size-fits-all” approach. What we’re even more excited about is the potential for leveraging the unprecedented amount of longitudinal high-resolution MR images generated during radiation treatment to further our mission of image-informed, biologically driven radiation therapy. Adding to what Dr. Byun said, MR-Linac technology can potentially solve issues associated with inter-patient variation in radiation sensitivity, for example by allowing for treatment tailored to a patient’s unique tumor biology. Importantly, by combining morphologic information with quantitative biomarkers extracted from MRI, we’ll be able to monitor treatment response for each patient and make adjustments if needed to the radiation treatment plan. Adapting to Variability What current issues in radiation oncology research will the new program focus on addressing? We plan to develop novel quantitative MRI methods to monitor tumor and normal tissue response to radiation at the biophysical level and adapt the dose during treatment on a patient-specific basis. The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac. “The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac.” One of the most active areas of cancer biology and radiation oncology research is furthering our understanding of underlying tumor heterogeneity and normal tissue toxicity. While we currently accept that treatment response and side effects may vary from patient to patient with the same diagnosis and treatment, we have yet to fully elucidate the underlying mechanisms of such observed variability. With this partnership, we have a unique opportunity to answer many of these pressing questions by bringing together the best clinical trialists, cancer biologists, and quantitative imaging scientists. Our effort will lead to the development and clinical validation of novel genomic and imaging-based biomarkers that will translate to the bedside. A Focus on Application We plan to leverage our research program as a vehicle to increase the translation of new discoveries from bench to bedside. In achieving this goal, our plan over the next few years will be to further federal-level grant support, strengthen the relationship with our industry partners, and establish collaborations with experts beyond our two departments. Thus, it will also be imperative that we actively disseminate the knowledge gathered by our program’s efforts to the greater medical community. As we continue to integrate our understanding of basic science and clinical medicine, we will be able to accelerate the transfer of these discoveries to the practice of radiation oncology for the benefit of our patients. David J. Byun, MD, is a radiation oncologist specializing in the management of genitourinary cancer and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research and clinical interests center around the utilization of cutting-edge imaging and radiotherapy techniques to enhance the treatment of prostate cancer. Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, is a professor of radiology, director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging, and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research interests include biomedical imaging, quantitative MRI, and computational biology. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Functional microbiomics—the study of how microorganisms in the body change over time, and how the body responds—is emerging as a powerful tool to understanding a person’s disease risk. At NYU Langone Health, researchers are using the approach to measure host-microbe interactions in a variety of biological niches . These include the lower respiratory tract, where new data in Nature Microbiology finds the presence of certain species may contribute to respiratory failure in the context of COVID-19. Powerful Predictions There are currently no validated lower airway biomarkers to predict clinical outcomes, said first author Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD , an expert in functional microbiomics. “Increased bacterial burden and the presence of gut-associated bacteria in the lung have been shown to worsen respiratory outcomes in a few studies, but no one previously had looked at the primary site of COVID-19 disease, the lower airways,” Dr. Sulaiman said. Dr. Sulaiman works in the research laboratory of Leopoldo Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory. Together with colleagues, the researchers have shown how microbiome imbalances contribute to lung cancer progression and aspiration with oral commensals can affect immune responses during pulmonary infections. Effects of Commensal Bacteria In their most recent collaboration, the researchers evaluated data on 589 critically ill adults with severe COVID-19. All of the study participants were receiving mechanical ventilation and a subset (142 patients) underwent bronchoscopy, which allowed for a deeper evaluation of the lungs. Patients who died, or who spent at least 28 days on mechanical ventilation, had comparatively higher levels of the oral commensal Mycoplasma salivarium in their lower airways. Notably, there was no statistically significant association between microbiologic bronchoscopy results and clinical outcomes, with the exception of SARS-CoV-2 infection. “While we did not find that isolation of a secondary respiratory pathogen was associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation or fatal outcome, we did identify critical microbial signatures—characterized by enrichment of oral commensals, high SARS-CoV-2 load and decreased anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG response—associated with fatal outcome,” the authors wrote. A Case for Targeted Therapy By using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, the researchers were able to start connecting airway flora and viral load to clinical outcomes in COVID-19. “The data in this analysis support that oral commensals are frequently found in the lower airways of critically ill COVID-19 patients and that differences between groups could be due to differential microbial pressures related to host factors, or that dynamic changes in the lower airway microbes affect host immune response to this viral infection,” Dr. Segal explained. Dr. Segal says more targeted antiviral therapy, rather than broad spectrum antibiotics, are called for when caring for critically ill patients with COVID-19. He notes a similar approach may be indicated for patients with other respiratory infections, though more research is required. Leopoldo Segal, MD, is the William Rom and David Kamelhar Associate Professor in the Department of Medicine. He is also director of the lung microbiome program, a critical care specialist, and pulmonologist. Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD, is an adjunct professor of medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research centers around bioinformatic approaches to measuring host-microbial interactions, including functional microbiomics. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are at high risk of severe disease from COVID-19 due to underlying immune dysregulation and prolonged use of immunosuppressants. Recent evidence suggests lupus drugs can also impact clinical and serological responses to vaccination against the virus , with higher rates of hospitalizations and attenuated seroreactivity in patients with immunosuppressed rheumatic disease following initial vaccination with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. new research published in The Lancet Rheumatology , an assistant professor of medicine, patients with lupus who receive an additional dose of COVID-19 vaccine are significantly less likely to have a subsequent SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with patients who only receive the initial vaccine series. “Our research shows that booster or additional vaccine doses are critically important for protection against breakthrough infection in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “The arrival of the Omicron variant provided us with more comprehensive data and a larger sample size to bolster our confidence in booster doses.” Severe Disease and Hospitalization The new study evaluated the clinical efficacy and seroreactivity of vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 among 163 patients from the NYU Lupus Registry who had received an initial vaccination series with or without an additional vaccination dose. By analyzing patient encounters and chart review, the researchers tracked the occurrence of breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections after vaccination for at least six months following the initial vaccination series or until breakthrough infection. For confirmation of breakthrough infection, a positive PCR or antigen-based test was required, either self-reported or performed at a clinical site. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic.” Dr. Saxena and colleagues reported that 22 percent of patients who received an additional vaccine dose had a breakthrough infection versus 42 percent who did not, adding that among 44 total breakthrough infections, only 2 patients were hospitalized due to COVID-19, both of whom improved clinically and were subsequently discharged. In addition, no deaths related to COVID-19 occurred. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic,” Dr. Saxena explains. Clinical Recommendations Given the inherent risks in this patient population, Dr. Saxena recommends that all patients with lupus should be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and receive a booster dose to enhance or restore protection that may have diminished over time following the primary series vaccination. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, Dr. Saxena and colleagues plan to keep monitoring vaccine effectiveness, especially against severe disease in high-risk patients with rheumatic disease. “Ongoing surveillance programs to detect and classify new viral variants will be essential to inform policy and recommendations about booster vaccines in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena adds. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital The director of children’s surgical services discusses key elements for achieving high-quality, family-centered care. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients The longitudinal NYU Lupus Registry, with nearly 900 enrolled patients, includes the vast majority of patients seen by NYU Langone Health rheumatologists. “While it’s been a very good tool for clinical and biological information, one thing that’s been missing is patient-reported outcomes,” says , associate professor of medicine. Through a CDC-funded Special Interest Project tied to a Prevention Research Center grant, Dr. Izmirly is collaborating with , an expert on health equity across socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical variations, to add these critical measures to the lupus registry. Through the researchers’ complementary expertise, the two-year project, called STRIVE (Systemic Lupus Targets Related to Improving Vital Endpoints), will enable them to overlay patient-reported outcomes, socioeconomic factors, and area-based measures onto the existing clinical and biological data. Together, the measures could provide an unprecedented view of potential contributors to SLE outcomes, says Dr. Izmirly. “Our lupus patient cohort spans a broad socioeconomic demographic and is racially and ethnically diverse,” he says. “The new sources of data will complement what we’ve already captured in our database, giving us an even more complete picture of the patients.” “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data.” Compiling A Richer Dataset The team will implement a new infrastructure to collect the expanded dataset, while patient advisors will help determine the importance of certain measures to the patients’ overall health experience. Some of the data points relate to what Dr. Gold terms more “patient-centered measures” like pain severity and interference, anxiety, depression, and fatigue. “That’s something only the patient knows,” Dr. Gold says. “For some people with lupus, their blood work always seems fine, but they might not be able to get out of bed.” The project will also explore potential associations between patients’ regular physical activity and factors such as their perceived stress, their SLE flares or hospitalizations, and the concentrated poverty in their zip codes. Layering the data may provide more clarity on significant non-clinical contributors to worse outcomes, such as food or housing insecurity, difficulty accessing healthcare, and other experiential and psychosocial factors. “Residential segregation, poverty and other area-based factors affect how people access care and manage their care and symptoms,” Dr. Gold says. “So health outcomes can be impacted not only by the clinical and biological measures that Dr. Izmirly and colleagues have measured for years, but also by other patient-reported measures.” “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients.” A Population Health Lens on Lupus Care Population health is more often focused on common conditions such as heart disease and cancer. Adding a rich layer of data to the well-characterized cohort in the lupus registry presents a unique chance to discover measures that could improve the lives of other patients, says Dr. Gold. “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data,” she says. “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients and figure out interventions that will help improve their quality of life and reduce their morbidity and mortality,” Dr. Izmirly adds. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age Daniel H. Sterman, MD speaking with patient. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As interventional pulmonology began to emerge, Daniel H. Sterman, MD , now the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care, was just completing his medical training. He had the chance to work with pioneers who built the subspecialty into what it is today—a hybrid of pulmonary medicine and thoracic surgery, where minimally invasive procedures are used to diagnose and treat cancers and other lesions in the chest. Today, Dr. Sterman heads the multidisciplinary pulmonary oncology program, leading multidisciplinary teams in important research and clinical care intitiatives. Here, he discusses the further evolution of the field. Dr. Sterman, you’ve been involved in the field of interventional pulmonology since its inception. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Sterman: Thirty-five years ago, we were primarily treating obstruction of the main airways and bronchi in cancer and other conditions with the goal of palliation of symptoms. There was not yet the interest in offering minimally invasive treatments for lung cancer and other pulmonary disorders. Today, interventional pulmonologists are combining leading edge technologies with translational expertise to both palliate the airways and, in the near future, definitively treat cancers and other suspicious lung lesions. We have the capacity to perform more advanced diagnostics and fewer invasive surgeries, and apply therapies directly where they’re needed. Responding to the COVID-19 Crisis Early in the pandemic, NYU Langone Health pioneered a protocol for implementing early, modified tracheostomy in ICU patients. What role did interventional pulmonology play? This was a major joint initiative led by , the director of lung transplantation, to create a pathway for percutaneous tracheostomy for those suffering from COVID acute respiratory distress syndrome. It was really revolutionary in March and April 2020; many centers wouldn’t do tracheostomy or bronchoscopy until there was evidence that there was no active virus in the lungs because of concerns of infection of healthcare providers. We showed that a tracheostomy within seven days minimized the need for respiratory support and got patients off the respirator, out of the ICU, and into recovery sooner. We were able to create an algorithm that ensured this could be done safely for the patient, provider and ancillary staff in the room—and that we could improve overall outcomes and survival. Other institutions confirmed the approach and guidelines were published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine that adhere closely to the NYU Langone Health protocol. Advanced Diagnostics for Suspicious Lesions Your team has been at the forefront of using robotic bronchoscopy and other advanced technologies for lung diagnostics. Can you describe some of these applications? We were the first commercial site in the United States to implement the Ion system, Intuitive’s robotic-assisted platform for minimally invasive biopsy in the lung. are using 3D robotic bronchoscopy to perform , reducing the need for more invasive procedures. Dr. Bessich, working with in neurosurgery, is also combining robotic bronchoscopy with to evaluate and diagnose suspicious lung nodules without destroying tissue. This would provide real time, on-site confirmation of the presence of malignancy, allowing for diagnosis and treatment of peripheral lung lesions in a single procedure. Delivering Therapeutics for Precision Treatment You’re leading two clinical trials testing bronchoscopic delivery of therapeutics to boost the immune response rate in lung cancer. What role does interventional pulmonology play in this groundbreaking cancer research? Interventional pulmonologists are developing the capacity to deliver thermal energy to peripheral lung cancers. Navigating to a lesion with robotic bronchoscopy, we can confirm we are at the correct location with 3D fluoroscopy and radial probe ultrasound, and in the near future, ablate the lesion with thermal energy such as with a flexible microwave probe. In the phase II LuTK02 study , one of the first intratumoral immunotherapy trials in lung cancer, we’re testing a therapy called gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy, delivering a novel immunotherapeutic directly into the pulmonary tumor or involved lymph nodes to accentuate the benefits of systemic checkpoint inhibitors in patients who aren’t responding as well as we’d like. In a separate trial— Bronchoscopic Cryo-immunotherapy of Lung Cancer —we are testing another method for inducing immune responses to lung tumor cells in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. These techniques may serve as “ in situ vaccines.” If provided in addition to systemic therapy, surgery, or radiation, the multistep scheme could offer an important new method for controlling or reversing tumor growth and preventing lung cancer recurrence. Technology Investments & Expertise For this vision to come together, what are the necessary pieces? Do you have the technology armament? We’ve made a significant investment in the two major robotic bronchoscopy platforms to complement the electromagnetic platforms we already have. Our clinical research draws on the extensive expertise of our interventional pulmonology program , as well as the Precision Immunology Laboratory Division of Thoracic Imaging and Perlmutter Cancer Center’s Thoracic Oncology Disease Management Group . It’s a wonderful collaboration and an exciting paradigm in which NYU Langone Health can take a lead role in large trials. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the subspecialty? We are still in the early days of the intratumoral study, but this new modality is incredibly exciting and where the field will be heading. Right now, this is assisting in the treatment of advanced lung cancer, but it could be used to deliver pharmacologic agents such as chemotherapy and immunotherapy, in combination with thermal ablation, for early lung cancer. Dr. Sterman is a scientific advisor for Candel Therapeutics. Daniel H. Sterman, MD, is the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine and director of the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research focuses include translation gene therapy and vaccine therapy for lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other pleural malignancies. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? Directly injecting biologics into lung cancer tumors might improve response rates beyond those achievable with systemic therapy alone, according to the research behind a new phase II clinical trial testing the approach. The pioneering open label, multisite trial combines gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy with standard of care for patients with refractory stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer. The immunotherapy—two courses of aglatimagene besadenovec—is injected directly into an accessible tumor site under CT or ultrasound imaging. Patients also receive 14 days of oral valacyclovir to heighten broader immune responses to the injectable biologic, which contains herpes simplex virus gene HSVtk. The two-punch approach directly manipulates the tumor microenvironment while supporting systemic effects, explains principal investigator , Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. “When you give the patient valacyclovir, the drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response. It acts not only locally where you do the injection, but anywhere in the body where tumor cells may be.” “The drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response.” The study is one of the first to deliver immunotherapy directly into patients’ lung tumors. Patients will be followed for three years following the investigational treatment. Researchers will assess tumor response rates, adverse events, immune cell responses, patient-reported symptoms, and survival rates. A New Phase II Trial The phase II trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of adding gene mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy to standard of care in patients with stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer that are not responding to a first line immune checkpoint inhibitor. Directly Targeting Tumors The study will determine whether delivering two rounds of the immunotherapy directly to tumor sites, via CT or ultrasound guided injection, is a safe approach that improves tumor response rates. Anticipated Systemic Effects Directly killing tumor cells in an immune stimulatory environment may induce the body to detect and destroy more cancer cells throughout the body, says principal investigator A Long-Term Solution Dr. Sterman and other interventional pulmonologists hypothesize that in the long-term, combining injectable biologics with available immune checkpoint inhibitors may provide a less invasive, safer, and more effective means of treating lung cancer. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? fMRI showing neuroconnectivity in a patient without (a) and with (b) psoriatic arthritis. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Roughly half of patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) achieve good outcomes with anti-inflammatory medication, says , assistant director of the . A key unanswered question is what keeps the other half of patients from achieving the same outcome. “One of our hypotheses is that it’s actually depression and anxiety, or mental health stressors, that are keeping patients from achieving full remission.” She notes about 30 percent of patients with PsA have anxiety and depression, and previous research has suggested that those with depression are much less likely to achieve remission. Dr. Haberman has launched a project called Mental Health and Neuroconnectivity as Predictors of Pain and Treatment Response in Psoriatic Disease. The multi-phase study is using functional MRI (fMRI) to seek out brain signals for pain, depression, and inflammation and assess whether such imaging might inform better treatment options. “We’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered.” “For patients who don’t achieve good outcomes, we’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered and that we should be targeting,” Dr. Haberman says. Neuroconnectivity May Influence Outcomes The project, funded by the National Psoriasis Foundation’s More Than Skin Deep grant and the Department of Medicine Young Scholars Program, is a collaboration with Mariana Lazar, PhD , an fMRI expert in the Department of Radiology. In the first phase, they will compare imaging results of patients recruited from the Psoriatic Arthritis Center to volunteers with and without depression. Patients will fill out depression and anxiety indices and undergo clinical exams to assess their level of inflammation. If the study establishes significant differences in neuroconnectivity, Dr. Haberman plans to compare fMRI results before and after treatment on biologics to assess whether the intervention improves the inflammatory disease and neuroconnectivity results. Research has already shown fMRI can point out signaling pathways in the brain and distinguish among different types of depression. Preliminary studies in rheumatoid arthritis have also suggested that the disease causes alterations in brain connections that may contribute to pain sensations. “If psoriatic arthritis, and in particular inflammation, can cause similar alterations in brain connectivity, then immunomodulatory medication alone may not be able to reverse those alterations completely,” Dr. Haberman says. Mindfulness as a Potential Intervention Adjuvant therapies could help normalize or reset altered neuroconnectivity pathways in PsA patients. One potential reset may be mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, which Dr. Haberman and Amanda J. Shallcross, MPH, ND , an expert on mindfulness in the Department of Population Health will explore in a subsequent phase of the project. “We want to see if we can help reset and alter those brain connections as well as improve psoriatic disease,” Dr. Haberman says. The approach has already shown utility in improving rheumatoid arthritis. “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a