Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 1 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To provide non laboratory* personnel with the information and training they need to work safely with hazardous chemicals. To comply with 29 CFR 1910.1200, the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard (HCS). * Laboratory personnel are covered by Safety Policy 134, the Chemical Hygiene Plan. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: • All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities • All employees, students, licensed independent practitioners (LIPs), volunteers, and vendors of NYULH 2.0 Definitions Chemical means any element, chemical compound, or mixture of elements and/or compounds. Container means any bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum, jar, storage tank or vessel that contains a hazardous chemical, not including pipes or piping systems. Hazardous chemical/product means any chemical or product that is a physical or a health hazard. Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is written or printed material concerning a hazardous chemical, prepared in accordance with OSHA’s HCS requirements and including the identity of the chemical, physical and chemical characteristics, physical hazards, health hazards, primary routes of entry, exposure limits, safe handling procedures, control measures, emergency and first aid procedures, and manufacturer information. SDSs follow a standardized format and include 16 mandated sections (see Appendix A). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 2 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for: • developing the Hazard Communication Program (the Program) and reviewing updating it as needed • upon request, assisting departments in implementing the Program, including developing of training • managing enterprise wide electronic access to Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) at NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI), the Director of EOC Compliance and Emergency Management manages electronic access. 3.2 Department heads or their designee(s) are responsible for compliance with the Program in their departments. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to: • maintaining an inventory of hazardous chemicals/products that are stored or used within the department at NYULH LI, the Director of EOC Compliance and Emergency Management maintains the inventory. • ensuring that copies of SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products stored or used within the department are maintained and readily accessible to employees • ensuring that personnel who work in the department receive information and training on hazardous chemicals/products stored or used there • informing vendors engaged by the department of the Program and verifying vendors maintain a program consistent with NYULH’s 3.3 Personnel who work with hazardous chemicals/products are responsible for: • ensuring all containers and vessels containing hazardous chemicals/products are properly labeled • reviewing SDS prior to using hazardous chemicals/products • completing training for hazardous chemicals/products used or encountered in the course of their employment duties • using hazardous chemicals/products only for their intended purpose in accordance with the requirements of the SDS Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 3 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 4.0 Exemptions The following materials are exempted from the Program. • articles, defined as manufactured items that have a specific shape and function, and under normal conditions of use, do not release more than minute or trace amounts of a hazardous chemical and do not pose a physical hazard or health risk to employees (e.g., thermometers, sphygmomanometer, glassware) • consumer products and hazardous substances, as defined in the Consumer Product Safety Act and Federal Hazardous Substances Act respectively, where they are used in the workplace for the purpose intended by the manufacturer or importer of the product, and the use results in a duration and frequency of exposure which is not greater than the range of exposures that could reasonably be experienced by consumers when used for the purpose intended • cosmetics that are packaged for sale to consumers and cosmetics intended for personal consumption by employees while in the workplace • drugs, as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in solid, final form for direct administration to a patient (e.g., tablets or pills), drugs packaged by the manufacturer for sale to consumers in a retail establishment (e.g., over the counter drugs), and drugs intended for personal consumption by employees while in the workplace (e.g., first aid supplies) • food or alcoholic beverages that are sold, used, or prepared at the medical center, and foods intended for personal consumption by employees while at work • hazardous chemical waste (see Safety Policy 108 for definition) • tobacco and tobacco products • wood and wood products, including lumber that will not be processed, where the only hazard they pose to personnel is the potential for flammability or combustibility (wood or wood products that have been treated with a hazardous chemical, and wood that may be subsequently sawed or cut, generating dust, are not exempted) 5.0 Hazard classification NYULH relies on the hazard classification determined by the manufacturer, importer, or distributor of a chemical or product. This information is indicated on the chemical/ product label and the SDS. 6.0 Chemical inventory Department heads, or their designees shall: • maintain a current inventory of hazardous chemicals/products that are stored or used within the department Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 4 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • update the inventory as necessary, at least annually • submit a current, annual inventory to EH&S, the Sr. Director of Engineering at NYULH LI, or the facility’s designee, for incorporation into the facility’s annual Community Right to Know Report (the Report). In New York City, the Report functions as the master chemical inventory for a facility. 7.0 Labels 7.1 Personnel shall maintain the manufacturers’ and/or vendors’ labels on all containers of hazardous chemical/products received at NYULH. Chemical manufacturers and importers are required to provide a label that includes: 7.2 product identifier 7.3 signal word (“danger” or “warning”) 7.4 hazard statement(s) 7.5 pictogram(s) 7.6 precautionary statement(s) 7.7 name, address and telephone number of manufacturer, importer or distributor See Appendix B for an example of a label with these labeling requirements, and the pictograms. 7.1 If an individual transfers a hazardous chemical/product to a container without a label, the individual shall label the container with, at a minimum, the common name of the chemical/product, the appropriate signal word and hazard statement. 7.2 Personnel shall ensure that an SDSs is immediately available for any container not labeled in accordance with Section 7.1 and Appendix B. 7.3 Pipes containing hazardous chemicals shall be labeled to identify their contents. 8 Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) 8.1 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure that SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products stored or used in the department are readily accessible to all personnel in their work areas. 8.2 OSHA defines “readily accessible” as meaning unrestricted access to SDSs during each work shift and in the work area(s). 8.3 Personnel shall not have to ask permission to access SDS information (e.g., SDSs cannot be stored in a locked office). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 5 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 8.4 Personnel shall have access to SDSs in an electronic format on all NYULH desktop computers via a desktop icon. 8.5 Departments shall implement procedures for personnel who don’t have access to a desktop computer, and in the case of an emergency, access to hard copy SDSs. 8.6 The most recent version of SDSs shall be available. When a new version is received from the manufacturer/distributor, the previous version shall be replaced. The most recent version of SDSs can be obtained online or through the manufacturer. 8.7 Personnel shall not work with hazardous chemicals/products until the SDS has been reviewed. 9.0 Information and training Department heads, or their designees, shall ensure that personnel receive information and training on all hazardous chemicals/products encountered in the course of their work. 9.1 The following topics shall be covered: • the requirements of the OSHA HCS • a description of the Program, and its location and availability • where to find SDSs and how to use them, including information on the standardized 16 section format • how to read label elements • operations where chemicals/products are present, and the hazards associated with chemicals/products with which personnel work • the procedures personnel shall follow to protect themselves when working with hazardous chemicals/products • how to detect exposures to hazardous chemicals/products • the signs and symptoms of exposure to hazardous chemicals/products • procedures to follow in the event of an exposure to a hazardous chemical/product 9.2 Information and training shall be provided initially, when new hazards are introduced, and when there is a change in the HCS. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 6 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • All new employees shall be provided with general information and training during Human Resources’ New Beginnings. Supervisors shall supplement this with training specific to an employee’s work assignments. • Upon request, EH&S may provide department specific training. The department head or their designee shall make personnel available for this training. 9.3 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure that all training is documented. 10.0 Non routine tasks 10.1 Department heads, or their designees shall ensure employees receive supplemental training before assigning them to non routine tasks involving hazardous chemicals/products. 10.2 Additional training shall be provided and documented each time a non routine task is assigned. 10.3 Upon request, EH&S may assist with this training. 11.0 Requirements for vendors who work at NYULH 11.1 Department heads, or their designees shall notify vendors who work at NYULH of potential hazards present in the work area and provide them with access to SDSs for hazardous chemicals/products within the work area. Department heads, or their designees shall document all notification given to vendors and forward copies of such documentation to EH&S upon request. 11.2 The department head or their designee shall confirm that the vendor has a program consistent with the Program. 11.3 Prior to bringing hazardous chemicals/products on site, vendors shall provide the NYULH department head who retained them, or designee, with copies of SDSs for all hazardous chemicals/products the vendor will store or use at NYULH . Upon request, copies of SDSs shall be forwarded to EH&S, or facility designee. Vendors shall inform their NYULH contact of all necessary precautionary measures that will be implemented while working with hazardous chemicals/products at NYULH. 12.0 Recordkeeping Department heads, or their designees shall maintain: Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 7 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 • records associated with the Program (e.g. chemical inventories, communications with vendors) for a minimum of three years. • training records for the duration of an individual’s employment. 13.0 Program evaluation EH&S shall review the Program at least once every three years and update as necessary. Updates of the program will be based upon but not limited to: • audit findings • changes to the Hazard Communication Standard • changes in operating requirements Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 12/2019 Reviewed by Z. Abatzis, Environmental Health and Safety M. Barrett Cheetham, Environmental Health and Safety N. Ejaz, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Safety Officer T. Fascianella, Orthopedic Hospital Loss Prevention F. Mineo, NYULH LI EOC Compliance and Emergency Mgmt. NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island LI EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) November 2019 Throughout Updates organizational references Throughout Renumbers document due to deletion of Section 2 (Introduction) Throughout Changes “employee(s)” to a more general term such as “individual” or “personnel” where appropriate (e.g., to incorporate LIPs, students, and volunteers) Throughout Changes “contractor” to “vendor” 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine Appendix A Safety Data Sheet (SDS) Sections Appendix B Sample Label and Pictograms Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 121 Policy: Hazard Communication Program Page 8 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.0 8.0 Minor updates and clarification of processes within Inventory, Labeling and SDS sections Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 8.0 Updates requirements for readily available Safety Data Sheets Reviewed by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, and HJD, Lutheran and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 121, Appendix A Reviewed: March 2021 SAFETY DATA SHEET (SDS) SECTIONS No. Section Name Information included 1 Identifications Product identifier, manufacturer/distributor information, emergency number 2 Hazard(s) identification Class/category, signal word, HNOC, mixture comment 3 Composition/ingredients Common chemical name, CAS, ingredient % 4 First aid measure Necessary measures, symptoms/effects 5 Fire fighting measure Recommendations for fighting a fire caused by a chemical 6 Accidental release measures Precautions, PPE, emergency procedures 7 Handling and storage Guidance on safe handling and conditions for safe storage 8 Exposure controls/Personal protection Exposure limits, engineering controls, and personal protective measures 9 Physical/chemical properties Appearance, odor threshold, pH, flash point, LEL/UEL 10 Stability and reactivity Possible hazardous reactions, incompatible materials 11 Toxicological information Routes of exposure, acute/chronic exposure symptoms 12 13 14 15 Ecological information Disposal consideration Transport information Regulatory information Not within OSHA’s jurisdiction 16 Other information Date of preparation/last revision Safety Policy 121, Appendix B Reviewed: March 2021 SAMPLE LABEL WITH 6 REQUIRED LABEL ELEMENTS COMMON PICTOGRAMS Health Hazard  Carcinogen  Mutagenicity  Reproductive Toxicity  Respiratory Sensitizer  Target Organ Toxicity  Aspiration Toxicity Flame  Flammables  Pyrophorics  Self Heating  Emits Flammable Gas  Self Reactives  Organic Peroxides Exclamation Mark  Irritant (skin and eye)  Skin Sensitizer  Acute Toxicity  Narcotic Effects  Respiratory Tract Irritant  Hazardous to Ozone Layer (Non Mandatory) Gas Cylinder  Gases Under Pressure Corrosion  Skin Corrosion/Burns  Eye Damage  Corrosive to Metals Exploding Bomb  Explosives  Self Reactives  Organic Peroxides Flame Over Circle  Oxidizers Environment (Non Mandatory)  Aquatic Toxicity Skull and Crossbones  Acute Toxicity (fatal or toxic)


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 1 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To establish basic fire prevention measures. To comply with the most current editions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, building codes, fire department regulations, and other voluntary standards. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All NYULH owned and leased facilities. − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH. 2.0 Accountability All employees, contractors, and consultants are accountable for preventing fires, through measures described in this policy. 3.0 General fire prevention 3.1 All use of holiday decorations shall comply with Safety Policy 148: Holiday Decorations. 3.2 Corridors, fire and smoke barrier doors, and exits shall be kept clear of obstructions. 3.3 Doors in smoke and fire barriers shall not be held open with door chocks or other items not designed or intended for such use. 3.4 The use of candles, incense, torches, or other open flame devices is prohibited unless otherwise approved in this policy. − Open flame devices used in laboratories for research purposes, or construction activities in compliance with Safety Policy 143: Hot Work Program are allowed. − Restrictions for use of sternos are listed in Section 6.3. 4.0 Smoking Smoking is prohibited at all NYULH facilities (see Safety Policy 104, Tobacco Free Facilities). Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 2 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 5.0 Housekeeping 5.1 All staff, contractors, and consultants shall keep work areas clean, neat, and orderly, free of slip and trip hazards, with materials and supplies stored in appropriate containers and locations. 5.2 In healthcare and ambulatory occupancies, large, mobile waste carts (exceeding 32 gallon capacity) shall be attended when in corridors. − Waste baskets that exceed 32 gallons in capacity shall be kept in code compliant designated hazardous areas (e.g., waste storage room) if unattended. 6.0 Cooking/heating food (outside of Food and Nutrition locations) 6.1 The use of personal toasters, toaster ovens, grills, crock pots, hot plates, and similar food heating appliances and equipment is prohibited. 6.2 The use of personal coffee makers and microwave ovens is permitted in designated areas only (e.g., staff lounges and patient waiting areas), but not in areas where there is a potential increased risk for fire. − Coffee makers and microwave ovens shall be UL or EC listed. − Making popcorn in microwave ovens is prohibited. 6.3 Use of sternos is not permitted at NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI). It is permitted in other locations, with the following precautions: − Sternos shall be used only in areas with sprinkler protection. − A 10lb. ABC fire extinguisher shall be within 10 feet. − Sternos shall be attended while in use by an individual who is familiar with fire extinguisher use and has completed annual regulatory training. − Sternos shall be placed on non combustible mats or trays extending at least 8 inches beyond the sterno in each direction. − Combustible materials (e.g., paper, table decorations, table coverings, plates, napkins, plastic utensils etc.,) shall be kept at least 3 feet away. − Sternos shall be positioned where they will be used before being lit. − Sternos shall not be moved once lit. − Sterno lids and tongs shall be kept nearby to allow for safe and quick extinguishment. 7.0 Electrical safety 7.1 Electrical installations shall be in accordance with the NFPA, National Electrical Code and local codes. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 3 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 7.2 Electrical installations and repairs shall be overseen by Facilities (i.e., Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, or Engineering) or Real Estate, and performed by qualified employees or licensed electrical contractors. 7.3 Any electrical equipment with a damaged power cord shall be immediately removed from service, marked, and sent for repair or discarded. 7.4 All corded electrical appliances that do not have double insulation, identified by this symbol, shall be equipped with a three wire power cord and a three pin grounding type plug. 7.5 Use of three to two prong adapters is not permitted. 7.6 The use of plastic light sockets is prohibited. All light sockets shall be ceramic. 7.7 The use of extension cords and relocatable power taps (RPTs) is allowed only when used in accordance with Safety Policy 157: Electrical Safety. 7.8 Heating and ventilating equipment shall meet appropriate codes and shall only be altered by qualified engineers. 8.0 Battery powered micromobility devices (e.g., e bikes, e scooters, electric skateboards) 8.1 The use of personal electric micromobility devices is prohibited inside NYULH owned, leased or controlled facilities, with the exception of assistive devices used by persons with disabilities. 8.2 Charging of personal electric micromobility devices is not permitted in any internal or external NYULH owned, leased or controlled space, with the exception of residences. 8.3 Personal electric micromobility devices are not permitted in patient care areas, clinical or research laboratories, or hazard areas (e.g., chemical or compressed gas storage rooms). Storage of these devices is permitted in designated NYULH bicycle rack locations (see Bicycle Transportation Program at Inside Health). 9.0 Oxygen 9.1 Patients in oxygen tents are prohibited from using electrical appliances or spark producing sources (e.g., bed controls, signal cords, heating pads, razors, radios, sparking toys). See Safety Policy 202: Fire Prevention during Clinical Use of Oxygen. 9.2 Compressed gas cylinders shall be handled in accordance with Safety Policy 102: Compressed Gas Cylinders: Safe Storage, Handling & Use. 10.0 Flammable and combustible materials 10.1 Flammable and combustible liquids and products shall only be stored in approved containers. 10.2 When refrigeration of flammables is required, explosion proof refrigerators shall be used. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 4 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 10.3 In New York City, storage of Class I flammable liquids is prohibited in basements, cellars, or other areas below grade. Storage of Class II and III combustible liquids may be permitted below grade provided: − The storage area has fire protection (sprinkler) and smoke detection coverage. − The area is inspected on a regular basis (at least once a week) − Approval is obtained from Facilities. 10.4 Solvent waste rags and cloths shall be stored in approved containers and in accordance with applicable Safety Data Sheets. 10.5 Facility maintenance products and waste, such as paints, thinners, scrap materials, shavings, solvents, and caustics shall be appropriately stored and disposed of in compliance with NYULH policies. 10.6 Spray painting with lacquers and oil based paint shall be restricted to specially shielded and ventilated areas. Any tools used in these areas shall be nonferrous and non sparking. 10.7 Interior finishes shall meet the requirements of Safety Policy 126: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials. 11.0 Laboratories 11.1 Caution shall be taken when using a hot plate. − Never leave a hot plate unattended. − Do not use hot plate and combination stirrer/hot plate unit in cold rooms. − Ensure appropriate knobs are labeled with the words “heat” and “stir”. − Replace hot plates over 20 years old. − Ensure lab personnel are trained on the unique features of different hot plate models that are available. − Periodically test the “off” switch on a hot plate to ensure that unit cools down. − Unplug hot plates not in use. 11.2 Storage and use of flammable liquids or solids within laboratories shall follow the guidelines in Safety Policy 103: Storage and Handling of Flammable and Explosive Chemicals in Laboratories 12.0 Construction Areas 12.1 Fire prevention practices required during construction are outlined in Safety Policy 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 5 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 12.2 The use of portable or temporary heaters in construction areas is prohibited unless specifically authorized by EH&S (see Safety Policy 207: Portable Space Heaters). 12.3 Personal electric micromobility devices (e.g., e bikes, e scooters, electric skateboards) are not permitted in indoor construction areas. Additional requirements are outlined in Safety Policy 120: Construction Contractor Safety Requirements. Issue date 12/2022 Replaces 3/2021 Reviewed by M. Callaghan, NYULH B, Facility Operations W. Dempsey, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management B. Farrell, Real Estate M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety D. Rubbo, NYULOH, Engineering NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital LI EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes December 2022 8.0; 12.3 New: Adds requirements for battery powered micromobility devices 8.0 11.0 Reorders sections to 9.0 12.0 March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) December 2019 3.4 Clarifies approved open flame devices October 2019 Throughout Reorganizes policy into more specific sections 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0, 3.2, 5.1, 9.1 New 6.3 Adds prohibition of sternos at NYU Winthrop Hospital Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital December 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references Purpose Updates purpose 2.0 4.0 Reorders sections 2.5 Adds prohibition of flammables storage in locations below grade Review by Adds review by NYULH B Safety Officer, and EOC Committees of NYULH B and Family Health Centers Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 122 Policy: Fire Prevention Page 6 of 6 Revised: December 6, 2022 Summary of Revisions Adds summary of revisions


Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 1 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE • To ensure that interior finish materials do not pose an fire risk due to ease of ignitibility • To comply with applicable regulations and consensus standards for interior finish materials POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Responsibilities Personnel who purchase interior finish materials are responsible for compliance with this policy, including selecting proper finishes and maintaining documentation. Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) is responsible for technical support, including reviewing flammability test reports upon request, and recommended testing laboratories. 3.0 Requirements 3.1 Interior finish materials on fixed and movable walls, columns, partitions, and ceilings • Newly installed materials shall be rated Class A when tested in accordance with NFPA 255 (Standard Method of Test of Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials) or ASTM E 84. Class A Interior Finish: Flame Spread 0 25; Smoke Developed 0 450 • Existing materials rated Class B in accordance with NFPA 255 may continue in use until replaced. Class B Interior Finish: Flame Spread 26 75; Smoke Developed 0 450 Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 2 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 • Paint or wall coverings not exceeding 1/28 inches in thickness and applied directly to a noncombustible substrate are exempt from these requirements. • Floor covering such as carpeting, when used on walls or ceilings, shall meet the NFPA 255 Class A rating. • Class A and B materials correlate directly to Class 1 and 2 materials as used in the Basic/National Building Code and the Uniform Building Code. 3.2 Interior floor finish in corridors and exits • Newly installed finishes shall be rated Class I in accordance with NFPA 253 (Standard Method of Test for Critical Radiant Flux of Floor Covering Systems Using a Radiant Heat Energy Source) or ASTM E 648. Class I: not less than 0.45 watts per square centimeter • Existing finishes rated Class II or better may continue in corridors until replaced. Class II: no more than 0.22 watts per square centimeter • Interior floor finish in spaces that are not corridors or means of egress may be Class I, Class II, or meet Federal Flammability Standard FF 1 70 “Pill Test”. 3.3 Fabrics and decorations not applied to a solid backing • Drapes, curtains, and loosely hanging furnishings and decorations shall be rated Class I when tested in accordance with NFPA 701(Standard Methods of Fire Tests for Flame Propagation of Textiles and Films). • Documentation, such as a tag, label, or original packaging, indicating that fabrics and other decorations are flame retardant, shall be readily available. 3.4 Upholstered furniture and mattresses in clinical spaces shall comply with NFPA 101, the Life Safety Code. Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 10/2019 Reviewed by F. Alvarez, RED+F, Design N. Ejaz, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Safety Officer J. Goldberg, Environmental Health and Safety F. Mineo, NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI), EOC Compliance and Emergency Mgmt NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital LI EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 126 Policy: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials Page 3 of 3 Revised: March 26, 2021 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop Hospital to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) October 2019 Throughout Edited throughout for clarity 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Eliminate reference to NYC Building Code Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital March 2018 1.0 Updates application 5.0 Adds requirement for documentation of flame retardant fabrics and other decorations August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 2.0 6.0 Renumbers the sections January 2017 1.0 Section 5.0 moves to beginning of policy Review by Adds review by Lutheran Safety Officer, NYU HJD, NYUHC, NYU Lutheran and NYU LFHC Environment of Care Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions