update. Current Urology Reports. 8. El Hajj et al. (2022). Learning curve in aquablation: An international multicenter study. World Journal of Urology. 9. MacRae et al. (2016). How I do it: Aquablation of the prostate using the AQUABEAM system. 10. Nguyen et al. (2020). Operative time comparison of Aquablation, Greenlight PVP, ThuLEP, GreenLEP, and HoLEP. 11. Elterman et al. (2021). Focal bladder neck cautery associated with low rate of post-Aquablation bleeding. 12. Elterman et al. (2020). Transfusion rates after 800 Aquablation procedures using various haemostasis methods. 13. Nguyen et al. (2020). Waterjet ablation therapy for endoscopic resection of prostate tissue trial (WATER) vs WATER II: Comparing Aquablation therapy for benign prostatic hyperplasia in 30–80 and 80–150 mL prostates. BJU International 14. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation or transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. Christopher E. Kelly, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Urology. His areas of clinical interest include benign prostatic hyperplasia and male urinary and sexual dysfunction. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus A schematic of the phase 4 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, non-inferiority crossover study to evaluate Shingrix in patients with lupus. Herpes zoster, or shingles, is more common in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) compared to the general population. An unresolved question has been whether the recombinant Herpes zoster subunit vaccine, Shingrix, is safe to use in patients living with lupus. A recently launched phase 4 clinical study , led by rheumatologist , an associate professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health, aims to evaluate the safety of Shingrix in patients with diverse baseline clinical activities, spanning different ages, and with varying levels of immunosuppressant exposures. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” “Anecdotal reports suggest that the Shingrix vaccine poses no significant safety concerns for patients with stable lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” The study, which is being offered at NYU Langone and the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, is open to adult patients with stable disease (i.e., no lupus flare(s) at the time of enrollment). Patients can be receiving many types of immunosuppressive or biologic agents for SLE treatment. While accrual is at an early stage, Dr. Saxena and the research team plan to conduct an interim analysis in the second half of 2025. They hypothesize that Shingrix administration will be non-inferior to placebo with respect to the risk of moderate or severe SLE flare(s) and that immunogenicity of the vaccine in lupus patients will be at least 50 percent of levels observed in healthy subjects from prior large clinical trials. “We hope the findings will have therapeutic implications and help patients and their families feel more confident in their decision to vaccinate,” Dr. Saxena says. Amit Saxena, MD, is an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in researching and treating systemic lupus erythematosus. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis New funding from the NIH will help NYU Langone Health researchers explain mechanisms that underlie autoimmune conditions, including lupus nephritis. Growing evidence suggests that a milder and early form of lupus nephritis, Class II, can progress to more-advanced disease states in some patients, underscoring the critical need for a deeper understanding of the disease pathway. Under the umbrella of AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases (AMP AIM), computational biologist , is developing and utilizing multiomic approaches to elucidate early disease pathogenesis in lupus nephritis. Launched in December 2021, the AMP AIM program seeks to deepen understanding of the cellular and molecular interactions that lead to inflammation and autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is a lead center in this ambitious effort, which has attracted a total of $58 million in public and private funding. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the , is contact principal investigator of the program’s lupus team. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” “Directing our efforts toward understanding early disease pathogenesis is important,” Dr. Ruggles says. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” Multimodal Data Analysis The analysis, led by Dr. Ruggles in collaboration with Dr. Buyon, focuses on multimodal single cell sequencing integration, starting with scRNA-seq and global and spatial metabolomics to connect transcriptome-predicted metabolic states and spatially resolve metabolic changes. Additional data modalities—including CITE-Seq, spatial transcriptomics, and multiplexed tissue imaging—will also be applied when available. These combined analyses, in turn, will complement ongoing AMP AIM working group efforts and help connect and harness existing data for enhanced discovery. “We’re leveraging our group’s expertise in precision medicine, extensive experience working with computational multiomics in immunological disorders and ongoing collaborations with multiple AMP AIM teams,” Dr. Ruggles says. These varied methods, she explains, will be first applied to 16 Class II lupus nephritis research biopsy cores, which will then be compared to 150 cores from patients with more advanced lupus nephritis, including Class III, IV, V, and mixed, to better understand the molecular underpinnings of early disease and potential drivers of progression. Seeking Predictive Biomarkers Despite continued efforts, the identification of robust and reproducible urine- and blood-based biomarkers for predicting and tracking lupus nephritis has been challenging. This is mainly due to the heterogeneity of the condition, which can vary from silent disease to rapidly progressive kidney damage. According to Dr. Ruggles, identifying unique transcriptomic and metabolomic signatures associated with early disease is key to the long-term goal of developing predictive biomarkers. “We’re searching for robust molecular patterns in the data,” she explains. “Uncovering a gene or metabolite signature that correlates with a clinical phenotype would be a game changer.” Given the recent advancements in technology, Dr. Ruggles foresees a shift toward optimized and personalized management of patients, aided by a battery of next-generation biomarkers. A Glimpse into the Future Looking to the future, this extensive molecular analysis could be applied in multiple ways, notes Dr. Ruggles, including for personalized medicine. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” “The possibilities for personalized medicine in this space are vast,” Dr. Ruggles says. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” In addition, consolidating and integrating data from all AMP AIM initiatives could have broader implications for other autoimmune disorders. Beyond lupus, for instance, the researchers plan to apply these methods to psoriatic arthritis samples from the AMP Psoriatic Response and Onset: Genes Radiology Environment Skin and Synovium ( AMP PROGRESS ) study and to rheumatoid arthritis samples at NYU Langone to assess molecular and phenotypic changes in those diseases as well. Autoimmune Disease, Computational Biology, Bioinformatics Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of integrated sciences in the Office of Medical Education. Her research focuses on understanding human health and biology using data science, data visualization, and predictive modeling. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Resistance to venetoclax and other BH3 mimetics in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) occurs due to a rapid increase in mitophagy, the process by which cells break down and turnover mitochondria, according to a new study from investigators at NYU Langone Health and , the findings build on earlier insights from the team suggesting that targeting mitochondria may serve as a novel approach to overcome venetoclax resistance “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either MFN2 or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia.” “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either mitofusin 2 (MFN2) or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia, as current drug treatments are stalled due to drug resistance,” says study senior investigator , the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Specific inhibition of MFN2 is of particular interest as upregulation of the mitophagy regulator was identified as a leading mechanism of venetoclax resistance. Challenging Resistance BH3 mimetics function by inhibiting the pro-survival signaling proteins relied upon by cancer cells for unchecked cell growth. Yet, despite their promise for treating AML and other cancer types, resistance arises after prolonged exposure. Combinatorial BH3 mimetic treatments are being investigated as one approach to improve efficacy; however, experts anticipate resistance to these strategies as well. “Acute myeloid leukemia is notoriously difficult to treat, with fewer than a third of those affected living longer than five years after their diagnosis, so it is important to maximize the impact of existing therapies,” says study co-lead investigator Xufeng Chen, PhD , an instructor in the Department of Pathology. Christina Glytsou, PhD, a former postdoctoral researcher at NYU Langone and now an assistant professor at Rutgers University, also served as co-lead investigator. Mitophagy: A New Target In the new publication, the team describes how mitochondrial clearance represents a key tactic deployed by AML cells to evade cell death triggered by BH3 mimetics. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms,” says Dr. Chen. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms.” Compared to healthy volunteers, the researchers report that patients with AML display increased expression of MFN2 as well as several other genes associated with mitophagy. These mitophagy genes are also upregulated in patients with poor responses to BH3 mimetics compared to high responders. Further analyses showed that genetic ablation or pharmacologic inhibition of MFN2 can sensitize human AML cells to various BH3 mimetics. While in animal models of AML, concomitant administration of a BH3 mimetic together with chloroquine, a general autophagy and mitophagy inhibitor, resulted in delayed AML progression and enhanced survival compared to both single agent–treated and untreated mice. Trials Ahead The research team now plans to design a clinical trial to test whether chloroquine, when used in combination with venetoclax, prevents drug resistance in patients with AML. Future studies will also focus on optimizing MFN2-inhibiting compounds like MFI8, a recently developed small molecule that inhibits mitofusins . The molecule was shown in the new study to enhance the efficacy of BH3 mimetics in in vitro AML experiments. Dr. Aifantis has received research funding from AstraZeneca. Iannis Aifantis, PhD, is the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on mechanisms of both lymphoid and myeloid leukemia initiation and progression. Xufeng Chen, PhD, is an instructor in the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on understanding the regulation of leukemogenesis and the acquisition of drug resistance in myeloid leukemias and developing novel combinational therapies for circumventing drug resistance to targeted therapies and immunotherapies. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression A current challenge to understanding the pathophysiology and progression of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is identifying and validating markers for the preclinical and prodromal stages, says Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD , a research assistant professor of neurology at NYU Langone Health. To that end, NYU Langone researchers have joined a landmark global study aimed at identifying markers of disease progression to reduce PD disability. The Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) —a groundreaking observational study across nearly 50 international sites and sponsored by The Michael J. Fox Foundation—is investigating the development of clinical features, digital outcomes, and biomarkers of PD progression in patients with manifest PD, patients with prodromal symptoms, and healthy control volunteers. “A systematic collection of data and biosamples from patients with Parkinson’s disease at different centers around the world represents a unique platform for new research discoveries and result validation in the field,” Dr. Riboldi says. A Transformative Study Since its inception in 2010, the PPMI study has become a cornerstone of PD research and continues to advance new treatments. Analyses from its dataset and biosample library have deepened understanding of PD and informed the design of dozens of therapeutic trials. With the goal of providing a more detailed and nuanced inquiry into PD development, The Michael J. Fox Foundation announced an expansion of PPMI to increase the size and diversity of enrollment cohorts. The expansion has potential downstream applications including earlier detection of those at risk, and the development of innovative new tests, treatments, and technologies. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” “Each PPMI volunteer contributes to the effort toward markers that are unique to people with Parkinson’s disease or who are at risk of Parkinson’s disease,” says Dr. Riboldi. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” Prodromal Parkinson’s Disease and REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Prodromal symptoms of PD are non-motor, and idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a well-established risk factor for neurodegenerative disease, with approximately 40 to 65 percent of patients with RBD also being diagnosed with a synuclein-related disorder during their lifetime. Research efforts are underway to find a treatment for RBD . Nonetheless, with no preventive agent for PD, recruiting volunteers with prodromal PD who don’t exhibit motor symptoms requires large-scale innovative screening and recruiting efforts. “When the motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease manifest, the majority of the dopaminergic cells in the brain are lost,” Dr. Riboldi says. “Studying early biological changes in prodromal stages of PD can help to clarify triggering mechanisms of the disorder and identify biomarkers for early intervention.” Although significant challenges to accrual remain, efforts are now underway at NYU Langone and collaborating institutions to recruit participants with idiopathic RBD for the study. Since idiopathic RBD is the strongest predictor of future development of α-synucleinopathies, it could be used as a model to understand the clinical and molecular evolution of the preclinical/prodromal phase of pathological α-synuclein—with the ultimate goal of initiating disease prevention studies in the prodromal phase. PPMI’s Ambitious Expansion updated PPMI clinical study protocol has set a target enrollment of approximately 4,000 participants across the nearly 50 sites worldwide. Study participants are mainly identified through a stage risk paradigm using a custom-built remote platform called PPMI Online In addition to identifying and further characterizing biomarkers, the researchers anticipate that the updated findings may inform further studies investigating PD therapeutics including clinical trials targeting synuclein, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), glucocerebrosidase (GBA), and others. “We hope that this effort will help identify reliable biomarkers for improving the diagnosis of PD and the development of effective disease-modifying treatments,” Dr. Riboldi explains. These efforts complement ongoing work at NYU Langone’s Parekh Center for Interdiscipinary Neurology , which are conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders. Parkinson’s Disease & Movement Disorders Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD, is a research assistant professor of neurology. Her research focuses on the discovery of new genetic variants associated with Parkinson’s disease and rare movement disorders. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment NYU Langone is one of 10 databank sites seeking to help researchers find the root cause of lingering symptoms. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease New research homes in on transcriptomic differences in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Leaders of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology discuss the vision, opportunities, and challenges. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Executive director of the Fresco Institute discusses how the unique partnership advances clinical care, research, and training. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Pelvic organ prolapse is common, affecting up to 50 percent of women over their lifetime. Although treatment can be straightforward, in a recent article in Case Reports in Urology , urogynecologist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health share three patient cases to draw attention to the distinctive care needs of individuals with pelvic organ prolapse in the setting of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). A rare hereditary disorder, EDS impacts connective tissue and collagen synthesis. The condition not only predisposes patients to gynecologic and obstetric complications like pelvic organ prolapse but also increases the risk of surgery, which is often required for symptom relief. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS,” says Dr. Brucker, director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS.” Safe and effective management of prolapse in this group requires a care team with diverse expertise and a deep understanding of patient expectations for treatment, he adds. Benefiting from Multiple Specialties Conservative symptom management is often the first line of treatment for pelvic organ prolapse. Rheumatologists and physiatrists offer treatments that aim to alleviate pain or discomfort or strengthen and stabilize pelvic floor muscles and connective tissue. If nonsurgical methods do not deliver the desired outcomes, reconstructive surgery is an option. Yet while surgery is associated with high success rates, Dr. Brucker emphasizes caution for patients with EDS. “Surgical planning for pelvic organ prolapse in individuals with hereditary connective tissue disorders requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed,” says Dr. Brucker. “Surgical planning requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed.” In the recent report, he and co-authors describe the distinct challenges tissue characteristics pose for surgeons and stress the importance of gentle perioperative and postoperative techniques that avoid cutaneous complications and minimize dressing changes to protect healing tissue. The potential for worsening dysautonomia, hemodynamic instability, trachea collapse, or spontaneous pneumothorax during anesthesia administration also requires extra caution. In addition, postoperative gastrointestinal complications are more common for these individuals, making collaboration with gastroenterology key. Younger Patients and Family Planning Although pelvic organ prolapse is often associated with aging, women with EDS and other connective tissue disorders tend to develop prolapse as early as their late 20s, says Dr. Brucker, without experiencing the known risk factors of pregnancy or menopause. Prolapse symptoms have a more dramatic negative impact on the quality of life for younger women with EDS, he adds. “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered,” says Dr. Brucker. “When discussing surgical options for younger patients with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS, it’s important to discuss family planning and future pregnancy.” “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered.” The authors describe the case of a 19-year-old female with EDS for which conservative management and physical therapy did not resolve a persistent vaginal bulge secondary to prolapse. The patient wished to pursue a surgical option. After considering the pros and cons of robotic uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrohysteropexy, the patient agreed to surgery, confirming no interest in future pregnancy. Following the successful surgery, abdominal pain in recovery required consultation with general surgery, and she reported notable improvement in vaginal bulge and pelvic pain at a follow-up six months later. Comprehensive, Quality Care Other cases in the report include those of two women, aged 38 and 52, with EDS, pelvic organ prolapse, and urinary incontinence. Robotic-assisted surgeries, including hysterectomy and sacrocolpopexy, successfully resolved their symptoms. Notably, collaboration with gastroenterology elevated the quality of care delivered to the 38-year-old patient. “Because she was multiparous and had defecatory problems, the urogynecology team involved other specialties to determine if rectal repair was necessary,” says Dr. Brucker. “It wasn’t, but because we had early input from gastrointestinal and colorectal surgery colleagues, there was already postoperative support in place.” “While the underlying pathology may be similar, no two individuals with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS are alike,” stresses Dr. Brucker. “We believe that collaboration with our colleagues in other specialties delivers the best outcome for each patient. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, Uro-Gynecology Benjamin M. Brucker, MD, an associate professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology, is director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. His research interests include overactive urinary bladder, urinary incontinence, urodynamics, and pelvic organ prolapse. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine A recent retrospective study helps fill in gaps related to the cardiovascular benefits of colchicine by including a population generally excluded from the key clinical trials—patients with gout already taking long-term colchicine to prevent flares. The research was led by rheumatologist Michael Toprover, MD Gout, Urate, and Crystal Deposition Disease . NYU Langone researchers Daria B. Crittenden, MD Michael H. Pillinger, MD , served as co-investigators on the study. While colchicine—a foundational treatment for gout—has recently been shown effective in reducing major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in those with established coronary artery disease (CAD), data until now have remained limited on whether these benefits extend to high-risk patients with gout. “Patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use.” “We stratified patients by consistency of colchicine use, finding that patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use,” says Dr. Toprover. “We also saw an increase in risk when active colchicine users paused taking the medication.” Equilibrating and Reducing Risk For the study, the researchers collaborated with colleagues from the Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Healthcare System to review over 178,000 veteran patient records, identifying a total of 355 patients with gout and established CAD. Of these patients, 239 were categorized as colchicine users, and the rest, 116, had never filled a prescription for colchicine. Overall, the analysis revealed that the odds of MACE were similar between colchicine users and nonusers. However, the team also found that colchicine users had a higher baseline cardiovascular risk profile compared to nonusers, suggesting that colchicine may have served to equilibrate risk between the two groups. Dividing the patients into four quartiles based on the consistency of colchicine use revealed even more striking findings. The authors reported that patients in the highest continuous colchicine-use quartile, defined as taking the drug for more than 70 percent of the observation period, had lower odds of MACE than those in the lowest three quartiles, with no difference in baseline cardiovascular risk. Moreover, colchicine users had a lower rate of MACE during periods of active use compared with inconsistent use. “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects.” “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects,” Dr. Toprover says. “Patients with consistent use appear to derive more benefit than those with inconsistent use.” Future Research According to Dr. Toprover, prospective randomized trials are needed to study colchicine’s long-term cardiovascular benefit in gout patients, with the potential to impact the standard of care for all gout patients. “One hypothesis is that colchicine may stabilize plaque during acute rupture or erosion, minimizing downstream thrombosis and end-organ ischemia,” he says. “We want to add to the growing body of literature supporting the use of colchicine in high-risk gout populations.” Rheumatology, Gout Michael Toprover, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and director of the Gout Treatment Center at NYU Langone’s Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity. His research and clinical work focus on gout, pseudogout, and other crystal-induced arthritides. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch The back and surgical scar of a patient with scar dancing syndrome. Proper Diagnosis and Treatment Brings Spasm Relief After being injured in 9/11, a retired firefighter underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. While the surgery was uncomplicated, 3 months after the procedure he developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar. The movements continued 24/7, persisting in sleep and causing pain, insomnia, and difficulty breathing. After seeing multiple specialists including several neurologists, he received no formal diagnosis and saw no improvement despite receiving various medications and procedures. His movements had been present for 7 years by the time he met Steven J. Frucht, MD , director of NYU Langone Health’s Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, in July 2021. “When he first presented, I discussed with him that he had an unusual, peripheral movement disorder, likely a form of peripheral myoclonus,” Dr. Frucht says. After examination, he was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome, a very rare form of peripheral myoclonus that manifests in the weeks to months after surgery at the site of the surgical incision. The condition is classified as a peripherally-induced movement disorder , and while the pathophysiology remains unclear, it is thought to be due to aberrant reinnervation of the incised muscles with ephaptic transmission to surrounding neurons. “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments,” says Patrick Drummond, MD , a clinical assistant professor of neurology. “Botulinum toxin is the most commonly used treatment for symptomatic cases, but with a success rate of only 20 percent.” “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments.” Using ultrasound and electromyography, Dr. Drummond was able to inject botulinum toxin accurately and safely into the muscles involved, which remarkably provided the patient complete and sustained relief for the first time in 7 years. “Interestingly, the treatment effect of the injections has persisted longer than our initial expectations,” Dr. Drummond says. “Based on these results, we’re planning further studies to confirm the effectiveness of botulinum toxin in such patients.” An Extensive Surgery X-ray of the patient’s spine following posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery. In 2013, a 62-year-old retired firefighter, injured in 9/11, underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. Powerful Involuntary Muscle Spasms A view of the patient’s back and surgical scar. While the surgery was uncomplicated, in the 3 months following the patient developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar on his back. The continuous movements were present for 7 years but received no formal diagnosis despite evaluation by multiple specialists. A Successful Treatment Provider’s view as botulinum toxin is administered with the aid of ultrasound and electromyography. At NYU Langone Health, the patient was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome. Ultrasound and electromyography were used to guide the delivery of botulinum toxin to the impacted muscles, providing complete and sustained relief for the first time in years. Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders Patrick Drummond, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of neurology. His research interests center on Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders including apraxia, ataxia, balance disorders, blepharospasm, cervical dystonia, chorea, corticobasal degeneration, dystonia, and essential tremor. Steven J. Frucht, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders. His clinical practice focuses on Parkinson’s disease, dystonia, myoclonus, tremor, tics, chorea, and a variety of less prevalent movement disorders. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus Jill P. Buyon, MD; and Peter M. Izmirly, MD Hydroxychloroquine is a mainstay for treating patients with lupus, but long-term use can increase the risk of retinal toxicity. The absence of data on the effects of ending treatment, however, has made this a challenging area for clinical decision-making. While withdrawing the drug after a relatively short-term period in younger patients can increase the risk of lupus flares, any potential impact of withdrawing it after long-term use in older patients remains poorly understood. Funded by a major new grant from the NIH , researchers at NYU Langone Health will investigate whether discontinuing hydroxychloroquine in older patients deemed clinically stable can be done safely. An earlier NIH planning grant helped the collaborators demonstrate the feasibility of a full clinical trial. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” “Two of the most common questions that our patients ask are, ‘What are the side effects of this drug?’ and ‘Do I have to take this forever?’” says rheumatologist , who will serve as a principal investigator along with , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology and director of NYU Langone’s Ophthalmologists have reported an increase in retinal toxicity among older patients after years of hydroxychloroquine use. “At what point do you say that, potentially, risks could outweigh benefits?” asks Dr. Buyon. The new multisite study, Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Elderly Lupus Disease, or SHIELD, should fill a significant knowledge gap in the current treatment paradigm. A Closer Look at Older Patients Dr. Izmirly, Dr. Buyon, and colleagues began discussing the idea after observing how well many of their older patients were faring. “Many expressed enthusiasm about the possibility of being weaned from a lifelong course of hydroxychloroquine,” Dr. Izmirly says. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” The team’s preliminary retrospective data suggested no difference in flare rates between stable patients 55 years or older who stopped taking hydroxychloroquine and those who continued on it. The new placebo-controlled, double-blind trial will offer a more definitive assessment by recruiting about 330 patients who are 60 years or older, have no evidence of active lupus, have taken hydroxychloroquine for at least seven years, and aren’t taking immunosuppressants or high-dose steroids. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients with lupus.” The study will randomly divide participants into one group that will stay on the drug and a second that will switch to a placebo. Both groups will be followed for one year to assess whether they experience any mild, moderate, or severe flares. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients,” Dr. Buyon says. “If patients do flare, we will have a unique opportunity to evaluate potential biomarkers of the flare that have never been looked at in a population of this age.” Importantly, the trial will include multiple safety mechanisms to ensure that any signal of a lupus flare will trigger a rapid intervention, notes Dr. Izmirly. Building on a Unique Research Infrastructure The trial, Dr. Buyon adds, will benefit greatly from the medical center’s wide-reaching lupus program , leveraging its Specimen and Matched Phenotype Linked Evaluation , or SAMPLE, clinical registry, representing a highly diverse patient population of over 1,000 individuals. “We see patients at three sites, from all walks of life. We’re uniquely positioned to be able to offer this study to patients of all backgrounds,” she says. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Neurology’s 2023 annual meeting in Boston. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Walk Your Dizzy Patients! Gait Assessment as a Screening Tool for Posterior Circulation Stroke Session: S3 – Cerebrovascular Disease and Interventional Neurology: Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Population Health Jose L. Torres, MD Kara R. Melmed, MD : 1 pm Use of Simulation to Develop Telestroke Skills in Trainees : S10 – Utilizing Varied Modalities to Impact Learning and Make Curricular Changes Authors Kaitlyn Lillemoe, MD Sakinah B. Sabadia, MD Perrin A. Pleninger, MD Brandon Giglio, MD Tyler E. Smith, MD Elina Zakin, MD Ariane Lewis, MD Sondra R. Zabar, MD : 5:06 pm A Prospective Study of Optimal Dosing Strategies of Levetiracetam for Seizure Prophylaxis in Critically Ill Patients : S4 – Neurocritical Care : 1–3 pm Teaching Neurology Trainees to Provide a Terminal Diagnosis Using Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OCSE) : P1 – Education, Research and Methodology: Resident Education 1 : Mordechai Smith, MD; : 8–9 am Facing the challenges of chief resident year: A standardized experiential simulation leadership curriculum S13 – Evaluating Diversity, Mitigating Bias, and Overcoming Challenges in Residency Nada G. Abou-Fayssal, MD Aaron S. Lord, MD Aaron Nelson, MD Sara K. Rostanski, MD Cen Zhang, MD 11:27 am Tuesday, April 25 Longitudinal Cognitive Screening Findings in Pediatric MS vs. Pediatric Controls and Adult MS in a Multi-center Cohort S31 – MS Clinical Decision Making and Special Populations , Allan George, MA : 3:30–5:30 pm Is Fatigue Response to tDCS Mediated by Change in Affect? An Open-label tDCS-MRI Study S27 – MS Neuroimaging 2:48–3 pm Remotely Supervised tDCS for Persistent Post-Traumatic Headache in Veterans (ReStore) P7 – Neuro Trauma and Sports Neurology: Symptoms and Therapies 8–9