including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis, and while the physiological link between GERD and lung disease severity has been well established, it remains an underrecognized and undertreated comorbidity. While some patients will report symptoms, including heartburn, regurgitation, and dysphagia, others may have clinically silent disease, which is frequently seen among lung transplant recipients. “Microaspiration from reflux can lead to basilar changes in the lung tissue, driving inflammatory processes and the development of fibrosis,” Dr. Damani says. The Importance of Testing When evaluating patients with pulmonary disease, a personalized approach should be taken to identify the influence of esophageal disease, which may involve several different types of tests, Dr. Khan explains. For example, an esophageal manometry test or assessment by functional luminal imaging probe (FLIP) on endoscopy could be used to help identify esophageal motility problems. “Recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically.” Another common test is an ambulatory pH study, which can either be done with a wireless pH-sensing capsule that examines acid reflux for 48 to 96 hours, or with a 24-hour catheter-based pH impedance test that looks at both acid and nonacid reflux for 24 hours. “These tests are usually performed when initial endoscopic investigation is unrevealing, especially when symptoms persist despite empiric therapy,” Dr. Khan says. Developing a Treatment Strategy Notwithstanding lifestyle modifications and acid suppressive therapy, many patients with chronic pathologic GERD and complex pulmonary disease may benefit from minimally invasive anti-reflux surgery, Dr. Damani explains. The Toupet (270 degree) fundoplication has been shown to be as efficacious as the Nissen (360 degree) technique, but with fewer rates of postoperative dysphagia and gas bloat syndrome. Additionally, among lung transplant populations, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, but surgery has not been extensively studied in bronchiectasis other than a few reports that signal toward lung function preservation. “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease. The opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease,” says pulmonary and critical care physician . “For many of these patients with recurrent exacerbations and progressive respiratory compromise, the opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease,” Dr. Damani says. “These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD, is a professor of medicine, associate director of education and faculty affairs in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, and director of the Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Fellowship. Her research focuses on bronchiectasis, sarcoidosis, and nontuberculous mycobacterial infection. Tanuja Damani, MD, is surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of surgery. She specializes in the minimally invasive treatment of disorders of the esophagus and stomach. Abraham R. Khan, MD, is medical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of disorders of the esophagus and is passionate about using modern technology to prevent and treat these conditions. Gastroenterology & GI Surgery GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Melissa Latorre, MD Over the last 25 years, the internal medicine hospitalist care model has demonstrated improvements in hospital length of stay and readmissions, reductions in in-hospital mortality, and cost savings. More recently, subspecialties including gastroenterology (GI) have begun to adopt the model given its and the growing need to have physicians on-site for inpatient endoscopic interventions. At NYU Langone Health, four GI hospitalists (GIHs) are embedded across the system, with the first added six years ago. Last fall at the American College of Gastroenterology’s Annual Scientific Meeting, gastroenterologist , and colleagues presented data from a retrospective single-center study on the impact of hiring a GIH, finding that having such a specialist on-site is associated with reduced length of stay and an increase in inpatient general GI volumes “Since starting the GI hospitalist model at NYU Langone in 2017, there has been an approximately 55 percent increase in the number of inpatient endoscopic procedures performed annually,” Dr. Latorre says. “The GI attending is on-site and familiar with hospital operations, and they are able to address complications such as GI bleed within the same day if necessary.” “I think institutions understand the impact of a medicine hospitalist on inpatient care and can easily extrapolate the potential benefits a GI hospitalist can bring, especially in a busy quaternary care hospital like NYU Langone,” she says. Improved Metrics and Outcomes The support provided by the GIH model has enabled NYU Langone to launch several initiatives to streamline care, Dr. Latorre says, including a small bowel bleeding program to accommodate the increasing volume of patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage. As part of the program, GIHs acquired skills in video capsule endoscopy and deep enteroscopy to expedite the evaluation of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. A separate initiative reduced the incidence of postoperative bowel complications in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery, including small bowel ileus, perforation, and death. During the COVID-19 pandemic, a GIH-led enteral nutrition team helped to triage and place gastrostomy tubes for patients with long-term nutrition needs. The model was associated with lower in-hospital mortality following gastrostomy tube placement. The GIH team continues to explore opportunities for further quality improvement through this model, adds Dr. Latorre. Benefits to Both Sides The increased efficiencies of the GIH model also extend to outpatient care. “Studies at other institutions have shown that there is an increase in both inpatient and outpatient procedures with the hospitalist model,” notes Dr. Latorre. “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” While some outpatient physicians were initially skeptical, Dr. Latorre and her GIH colleagues have incorporated them as integral members of the patient’s inpatient care team. “With smart use of the electronic medical record and chats, we have complete transparency,” she says. “We’ve also created a better experience for the patients because we’re able to address the acute situation and send them back to their outpatient physician in a shorter time.” Education and Career Path Dr. Latorre believes the GI fellowship lends itself well to transitioning to a GIH role. “Fellows tend to spend much more time in the hospital during their training than they do in an ambulatory,” she says. “We work hand in hand with our trainees; education is a big part of what we do.” recent survey of GI fellowship program directors , many respondents believed a GIH would improve fellowship education and quality of inpatient care. Because they spend most of their time within the walls of the hospital and are familiar with the leadership, attendings, and physicians, “it’s common for hospitalists to integrate themselves into administrative roles within the hospital,” Dr. Latorre adds. “I think this career path is going to become more prevalent just as it has for medicine hospitalists,” she says. “The pace of a GIH’s day can be very different than that of their outpatient colleagues. While time in the hospital can be very demanding and unpredictable, I find tremendous satisfaction in helping patients with life-threatening gastrointestinal illnesses and training the future generation of gastroenterologists.” Melissa Latorre, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and section chief in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Her research focuses on improving outcomes in the inpatient gastroenterology setting. For a patient with a tumor in the head of the pancreas, a robotic approach enabled a safe operation and rapid recovery. Upwards of 80 percent of Whipple procedures at are performed robotically, a sharp rise from just a few years ago when the medical center first offered the robotic approach. The rapid growth positions NYU Langone Health as one of just a few centers across the nation executing a high-volume robotic Whipple program. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one,” says , director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and of Research Information Systems at The progress reflects the programmatic approach taken by NYU Langone’s integrated hepato-pancreato-biliary surgery team, and Dr. Winner emphasizes collaboration with surgical colleagues across NYU Langone’s campuses, including Eihab Abdelfatah, MD , in Long Island, and Steven M. Cohen, DO , in Manhattan. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one.” According to Dr. Winner, the program’s success can be attributed to many players across NYU Langone who committed in concert, including surgeons, physician assistants (PAs), and members of leadership who purchased additional robotic surgical systems to ensure ample access. “The best way to do a Whipple efficiently is to engage the PAs who are robotically trained,” Dr. Winner says. “An unnecessarily long operation is not healthy for the patient or surgeon.” At the Long Island campus, procedures are typically completed in 3.5 hours, and patients can return home as early as 3 days following surgery. Early in adopting the robotic Whipple, Dr. Winner recalls performing on a patient with a tumor in a difficult location, in the posterior uncinate process and above the inferior vena cava. The case reinforced to Dr. Winner the unparalleled operative and postoperative experience offered by the procedure. “In adopting the robotic Whipple platform, I was worried about compromising any of the excellent quality that we have achieved in our open Whipple program. But what I’ve learned from my patients who went through these procedures is there is tremendous benefit offered by the robotic platform.” Dr. Winner has participated in courses sponsored by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. but is not a paid consultant for the company. Megan D. Winner, MD, MS, FACS, is an assistant professor of surgery, director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and director of Research Information Systems at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD A growing body of evidence suggests that atherosclerotic-related inflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Yet to date, there has been little research assessing the relationship between a diagnosis of an atherosclerotic-related condition and the risk of eventually developing IBD. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2023, researchers led by gastroenterologist Adam Faye, MD , an assistant professor of medicine and population health at NYU Langone Health, explored that question in unprecedented scope and detail. “That the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur.” Using the Swedish Patient Register and the ESPRESSO (Epidemiology Strengthened by histoPathology Reports in Sweden) cohort, the team identified more than 56,000 individuals with IBD between 2002 and 2021, and matched these cases to over 530,000 controls. They then calculated odds ratios (OR) for exposure to an atherosclerotic-related condition (myocardial infarction, thromboembolic stroke, or atherosclerosis itself) before diagnosis with IBD. “The Swedish data is one of the best assets available for this type of research,” Dr. Faye explains, “because it enables us to track diagnoses, healthcare usage, pathology reports, and prescriptions for every patient in the country over decades, with almost no loss to follow-up.” An Unprecedented Investigation It has long been known that IBD and atherosclerosis have partly overlapping pathophysiology, with plaque deposition leading to immune activation and upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. A 2013 study found the risk for ischemic heart disease to be highest in the year following a diagnosis of IBD , suggesting that atherosclerosis may have long preceded symptomatic bowel inflammation. More recently, studies have shown that statin use, which reduces the inflammatory burden associated with atherosclerosis, may reduce the risk of IBD The new investigation, however, was the first population-based case-control study to examine the potential links between atherosclerosis and the development of IBD. Dr. Faye and his colleagues evaluated the epidemiological associations between a prior atherosclerotic condition and the development of IBD, as well as between the number and types of atherosclerotic conditions and the development of IBD. An Array of Associations The team found that older adults who developed IBD were significantly more likely to have an atherosclerotic-related condition as compared to both the general population and sibling controls. Results were statistically significant for both Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis and were consistent regardless of the patient’s age at IBD diagnosis. “Atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the development of IBD.” The highest odds of a preceding atherosclerotic condition were seen in the 12 months before the IBD diagnosis, with patients with IBD being 78 percent more likely to have experienced an atherosclerotic condition within the year preceding their diagnosis compared to controls. But odds were also increased even five or more years earlier. “The fact that the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur,” says Dr. Faye. All types of atherosclerotic conditions were associated with increased odds of IBD, though the highest was for atherosclerosis itself—possibly, the researchers hypothesize, because patients with myocardial infarction or stroke were less likely to survive long enough to develop IBD. In addition, the odds for developing IBD were higher when two or more atherosclerotic conditions were present. “Our findings suggest that atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the overall inflammatory burden and development of IBD,” says Dr. Faye. Although further research will be required to clarify the associations between the two conditions, he adds, these results might point toward future interventions (such as prophylactic statin administration) for patients with known risk factors for IBD. Dr. Faye has received consulting honoraria from Bristol Myers Squibb. Adam Faye, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. His research focuses on the causes and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in older adults. At NYU Langone, our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions in an atmosphere of compassion and respect. Our doctors include board-certified specialists in . We also offer specialists with expertise in allergic and contact dermatology dermatologic autoimmune diseases We are home to a leading dermatopathology laboratory accredited by the College of American Pathologists that interprets skin samples, helping our doctors to make effective diagnoses and develop tailored treatment plans. Through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit , we provide access to the latest clinical trials for many diseases and disorders of the skin, from complex autoimmune disorders to Clinical Trials and Research Our doctors provide patients access to the most innovative treatments through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit. Read More About Our Clinical Research During your first visit, your dermatologist performs a full-body examination of your skin to spot any potential problems and make a diagnosis. Your doctor discusses your condition and may recommend treatments or procedures that are best suited to your needs. Depending on the diagnosis, they may recommend medical, surgical, or cosmetic dermatology services. Our dermatologists collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , if you require further evaluation or treatment for skin cancer. If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please email dermatologyassociates@nyulangone.org for general and medical dermatology. For dermatologic surgery, call 212-263-7019 and select option 1. To refer a patient on Long Island, please call one of our Long Island physicians directly. This Dermatologist Eases Cancer-Treatment Side Effects The Art of Caring for Patients with Skin of Color NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Names New Dermatology Chief Customized Vaccine Offers New Hope for People with Melanoma Meet the Team That Conquered Skin Cancer at Its Most Complex Dermatology’s Special Focus on Patients with Skin of Color Blood Test Evaluates Effectiveness of Skin Cancer Treatment NYU Langone Receives Grant for Melanoma Research Study Finds the Body Absorbs Sunscreen Chemicals Investigators Develop Novel Blood Tests for Tumor DNA Expert Discusses Taking Care of Your Skin This Summer If Caught Early, Hair Loss Can Be Slowed or Even Reversed Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour Richard Lau, MD Requiring only one tiny incision, a breakthrough technique for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is minimizing pain and recovery times for patients. , a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, is helping to pioneer the minimally invasive procedure, providing the treatment in the outpatient setting without general anesthesia in under one hour. “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery.” “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery,” Dr. Lau says. “For carefully selected patients with LSS, this technique offers an exciting opportunity to dramatically improve their troublesome symptoms.” The MILD Procedure The MILD Procedure was initially developed in 2005, Dr. Lau explains, to help treat cancer patients who developed spinal stenosis but were unable to tolerate intensive surgery due to comorbidities. In recent years, the technique has been adapted to treat select patients with LSS. Based on positive results from the MiDAS ENCORE study , the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approved nationwide Medicare coverage of the procedure in 2017. “Since then, we’ve seen a big increase in demand,” Dr. Lau says. Backed by Robust Evidence Long-term follow up data suggest that 88 percent of patients with symptomatic LSS who undergo the procedure may be spared from open lumbar decompression surgery for at least 5 years, reflecting durable outcomes. Patients also report significant pain relief, functional improvement, and reduced pain medication usage. “Although open surgical decompression is associated with good outcomes in most patients, there may be potential complications,” Dr. Lau explains. “These can include local tissue trauma, persistent postoperative pain, and nerve damage.” There are additional concerns when treating older patients, Dr. Lau says, who often present with multiple comorbidities. Traditional spine surgery typically involves general anesthesia, and may involve a hospital stay and recovery period. “As a minimally invasive option, MILD represents a safe and effective alternative to open spine surgery—especially for select elderly patients,” Dr. Lau says. “The procedure requires no stitches, causes minimal discomfort, and has a strong safety profile, similar to that of an epidural steroid injection.” Determining Patient Candidacy To assess if a patient is a candidate, it is important to establish the diagnosis and etiology of LSS, Dr. Lau explains. This includes a detailed history and physical examination, with etiology primarily determined with imaging studies. “The most consistent finding of symptomatic LSS is the presence of neurogenic claudication, which may involve little or no pain at rest or when sitting or lying down,” Dr. Lau says. “Upon standing or walking, however, these patients experience back, buttock, and/or leg pain and report a progressive decline in their standing time and walking distance.” Dr. Lau encourages appropriate patients to undergo MILD as early as needed rather than waiting until they are at an advanced age, especially given that it’s covered by Medicare and some private payers. If providers are unsure whether a patient may be a suitable candidate, referring them for consultation is highly recommended. “This intervention can significantly impact patients’ quality of life,” Dr. Lau says. Richard Lau, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine. His clinical and research interests include minimally invasive lumbar decompression, pain management, and nerve block procedures. Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome The two-point predictive scoring system can identify patients with renal hyperparathyroidism at a high risk of postparathyroidectomy HBS. The risk score includes 1 point for ALP >150 U/L and 1 point for markedly elevated PTH >1000 pg/mL. A score of 1 point confers 93.8% positive predictive value, whereas a score of 0 points would confer 100% negative predictive value. ADAPTED FROM: Endocr Pract . 2023 Nov;29(11):890-896. In a recent study published in Endocrine Practice , NYU Langone Health researchers identified two preoperative variables—serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP)—as being significantly associated with hungry bone syndrome (HBS) after parathyroidectomy for renal hyperparathyroidism. The team drew upon a decade of data to analyze the risk factors of postsurgical HBS, ultimately building a simple, 2-point scoring system based on PTH and ALP levels; the predictive algorithm identifies patients at high risk of HBS with nearly 97 percent accuracy. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS,” says endocrinologist Melissa Sum, MD , lead author on the study. Endocrine surgeon , served as a coinvestigator of the study. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS.” HBS, characterized by significant hypocalcemia, can occur in the postoperative period following parathyroidectomy. Rapid diagnosis and management of HBS is imperative due to the possibility of life-threatening complications, including cardiac arrhythmias and generalized seizures. While previous reports have identified markedly elevated PTH and ALP to be associated with HBS development, the model is unique in its high accuracy, simplicity and utility in predicting patients at high risk of HBS, particularly in the preoperative setting. “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies.” “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies,” Dr. Suh says. Taken together, Dr. Sum says the findings support the utility of these metrics in future attempts to create standardized perioperative treatment protocols and electronic medical system alerts. “Our model predicts HBS in the preoperative setting with very high accuracy and has immense practical application,” she says. Endocrinology, Bone Health Melissa Sum, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, and content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module. She specializes in the treatment of disorders of calcium and bone metabolism. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Michael B. Natter, MD, uses art to help explain treatment to patients. Artist and endocrinologist Michael B. Natter, MD , is an advocate for the use of sketching to commit to memory details about anatomy, pathophysiology, and more. Inspired to pursue endocrinology due to his own experience with type 1 diabetes, he says his passion for art has served as a learning tool throughout his medical career, and he frequently turns to drawing as a means of communication during patient visits. Here, Dr. Natter gives his perspective on the role of art in medicine and how mixing the two has made him a better physician. A Diagnosis and A Discovery Can you talk about your personal experience with diabetes? How has it inspired you to pursue a career in medicine, and in endocrinology specifically? Dr. Natter: Just two weeks after my ninth birthday, I got very sick and no one knew what was going on. I was rushed to the hospital and found to have diabetes; I was in diabetic ketoacidosis. I was in the ICU for a couple of weeks, and I remember it being incredibly scary. But it also was eye-opening. It sparked my fascination with medicine and with this beautiful symphony that takes place in our bodies that was, in my case, broken. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could.” Within endocrinology, I was drawn to the opportunity to form those longitudinal relationships with patients that you see again and again, ultimately pursuing it as my specialty. Mixing Art and Medicine When did you discover your interest in art, and when did you begin to connect it to your interest in medicine? I studied fine art as an undergraduate, doing large-scale charcoal drawings, figure drawings, and still lifes. I was always interested in medicine and anatomy, but I didn’t start practicing medical illustrations until I was in my post-bac program. In those classes, I would draw to learn anatomy, doodling in the margins. Then I would take the test, and all I could remember were my doodles—and it all clicked. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I wanted to do something I enjoyed while studying, so I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could. To my surprise, I started doing better in my classes. Sketches, Comics, and More You now produce and sell your medical artwork regularly. Is there an overarching focus or theme? What are some of your favorite illustrations? My art falls into one of three buckets. The didactic bucket includes the art I created when teaching myself medicine, and the art I now create when teaching medicine to my colleagues, medical students, or patients. It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful.” There’s the cathartic bucket for graphic novel-type pieces or comics. These are funny or poke fun at some of the insecurities that we experience as we go through medical training. There’s one illustration of what would be me with a Foley catheter and an IV drip of coffee, which pokes fun at the ridiculousness of residency hours. The third bucket is my fine art that, unfortunately, I’ve done less of since starting medicine because the timing has been tough. A cartoon illustrating the main functions of the heart. A sketch of the heart overlaying an electrocardiogram. An illustration of three common mechanisms underlying hypercalcemia and key treatments. An illustration of five key considerations for headache. An illustration of conditions that tend to be misdiagnosed as hepatic encephalopathy due to their ability to suppress consciousness. Art as a Process, Not a Product How can incorporating art into your medical practice help patients with diabetes, and those with other chronic medical conditions? With chronic illness, especially with conditions like diabetes, you need to have agency and understand the pathophysiology. You need to understand what’s wrong with your pancreas, with your system, with whatever is wrong. For a patient to understand that pathophysiology, a lot of it falls on us as physicians to educate. The common language is images. You don’t need to speak Spanish to draw a picture. There’s something magical that happens when I meet a patient for the first time that has diabetes. I always ask them, “Can you tell me what your understanding is of your diabetes?” From there, I’m able to build. Very often, I’m pulling out my sketch pad and drawing for them. People in the medical world say, “Well, I can’t draw. I’m not an artist.” It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful. You’re creating rapport, and you’re showing them that you’re taking the time to help them understand—that’s very powerful. When you are discussing as you’re drawing, I really do think you’re able to get a better understanding from the learner. More Than Your Title How have other physicians responded to your art? I’ve had the opportunity to work with colleagues in dermatology, nephrology, and other fields on medical illustrations for publications. That’s been really fun. For a lot of adults, there’s this idea of identifying only as one thing. In medicine, I think we become our physician identity, but there’s so much more to us that is valuable, important, and worth celebrating. It’s important that we acknowledge and talk about those aspects of ourselves. Not only because it makes us more human, but also because I believe it makes us better doctors. Michael B. Natter, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of diabetes and disorders of the endocrine system. Diabetes & Endocrinology Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes A schematic of the dietary interventions used in the study. Ten participants with prediabetes and obesity were randomized 1:1 to either one week of a usual feeding pattern or one week of an eTRF pattern, after which they crossed over to the alternate arm for one additional week. B, breakfast; L, lunch; D, dinner. ADAPTED FROM: Bruno, J. (2023, June 15-18). The Time-Restricted Feeding Effects on Inflammation and Obesity (TRIO) Study [Conference Presentation]. ENDO 2023. Chicago, IL, United States. Compared to a usual feeding pattern, eTRF significantly reduces glycemic variation and hyperglycemia, defined as the percent of time with blood glucose (BG) levels above 140 mg/dL. These effects were independent of weight loss. Early time-restricted feeding (eTRF) may be a useful dietary strategy for diabetes prevention and improving glycemic outcomes, according to a new study presented at the Endocrine Society’s 2023 annual meeting “eTRF is a form of intermittent fasting that involves restricting calories to the early hours of the day,” says study lead author Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, an endocrinology fellow at NYU Langone Health. “This feeding strategy, through its effect on blood glucose levels, may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” “This feeding strategy may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD For their study, the researchers compared eTRF (80 percent of calories consumed before 1:00PM) to a usual feeding pattern (50 percent of calories consumed after 4:00PM) among 10 participants with prediabetes and obesity. Food was provided to meet the patients’ caloric needs for weight maintenance to determine the weight-independent effects of this strategy and patients wore continuous glucose monitors throughout the study. The study is the first to evaluate the effects of eTRF on glycemia and inflammation independent of weight loss. “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding.” Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding,” says study senior author José O. Alemán, MD, PhD , an assistant professor of medicine. “The findings show that eating a majority of one’s calories earlier in the day reduces the time that the blood glucose is elevated, thereby improving metabolic health.” Endocrinology, Adult Hospital Medicine Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine. His clinical and research interests include weight management, metabolism, and insulin resistance. Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, is an endocrinology fellow within the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions On April 6 to 8, researchers and physicians from NYU Langone Heart joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2024 Scientific Sessions in Atlanta. During this year’s ACC Scientific Sessions, , will be honored with the 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease award. This prestigious recognition celebrates individuals who have made significant contributions to advancing cardiovascular care for women, underscoring their dedication and impact in the field. Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, April 6 The Association Between Air Pollution and In-Hospital Myocardial Infarction Outcomes in a Nationwide Dataset Session 1246: Ischemic Heart Disease: Population Science 03 Luke Bonanni, 11:45AM–12:30PM Sunday, April 7 Breakthrough Therapies: A Year in Review Session 683: Breakthrough Therapies, the Year in Review: Joint Symposium of the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions and the American College of Cardiology 8:30–9:45AM Cardiometabolic Risk Factor Burden and Circulating Biomarkers in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease in the ISCHEMIA Trials Session 1372–1372: Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease 09 Carine Hamo, MD Wenbo Wu, PhD Rebecca Anthopolos Sripal Bangalore, MD Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD 10:15–11:00AM Perceived Usability of Mobile Health Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Older Adults Session 1422–1422: Innovation, Digital Health, and Technology 12 Kirra Borrello, Camila Johanek, Samrachana Adhikari, PhD Jonathan H. Whiteson, PhD Barbara J. George, EdD Gregory J. Sweeney, DPT Antoinette M. Schoenthaler, EdD , Pavel Placido, John A. Dodson, MD, MPH 1:15–2:00PM Visual Estimates of Coronary Slow Flow Are Not Associated with Invasive Wire-Based Diagnosis of Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction Session 1078: Ischemic Heart Disease: What’s New in Assessment of IHD Kenneth Harkin, Ethan Loftspring, Amanda Joa, Ayman Farid, MD Claudia C. Serrano-Gomez, MD 2:15–2:25PM Getting to the Heart of the Problem—Challenges with Diagnosing Heart Failure from the Electronic Health Record Session 1464: Heart Failure and Cardiomyopathies: Population Science 14 Sharon Klein, Talia Nadel, Saul B. Blecker, MD 3:15–4:00PM Monday, April 8 The (Left) Main Event: If You’re Going to Use Imaging Somewhere Session 733: Intravascular Imaging for Complex Cases: Left Main, Multi-Vessel Disease, Calcium and CTO 11:15–11:25AM 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease NYU Langone Recipient: Session: Convocation and Reception 4:00–6:00PM Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 Before COVID-19-related restrictions were introduced in March of 2020, the mean nighttime noise level across 6 units in 2 NYC nursing home facilities ranged from 40 to 51 decibels (dB). After restrictions were implemented, those levels rose to 44 to 57 dB. ADAPTED FROM: JAMDA . 2021 May;22:P974-976. Controlling the spread of COVID-19 in nursing homes was greatly complicated by asymptomatic carriers, atypical symptoms, and the frequency of close contact between staff and residents. In March 2020, the CDC implemented multiple restrictions in a bid to