diversion and an unwillingness to proceed with the treatment plan. A multidisciplinary tumor board then deemed the patient a candidate for TMT, which the patient agreed to, viewing the chance to preserve bladder function as a welcome relief. Success with Trimodal Therapy Since completing TMT, which involved repeat transurethral resection followed by weekly cisplatin and 55 Gray intensity-modulated radiation, the patient has remained disease-free. The patient tolerated TMT well, developing only mild urinary hesitancy successfully managed with tamsulosin. “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity.” Critical to success with TMT is appropriate patient selection and strict adherance to the intense treatment schedule, Dr. Barlow says. “Candidates for TMT include patients with organ-confined muscle-invasive bladder cancer and significant medical comorbidities that would make them poor candidates for radical cystectomy, a major surgery with a high complication rate when performed by even the most skilled surgeon,” says Dr. Barlow. “Additionally, TMT is an option for certain patients with muscle-invasive disease localized to the bladder with a strong preference to avoid a urinary diversion.” Management of disease recurrence should be discussed with patients before initiating TMT as salvage radical cystectomy may be recommended and is associated with higher overall morbidity than primary radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow notes. Advancing New Treatments While there is much interest in TMT, so far no randomized controlled trial has successfully compared TMT to neoadjuvent chemotherapy plus radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow says. Such studies, combined with ongoing trials evaluating TMT with immunotherapy, are critical next steps to guiding best practices for those with muscle-invasive disease seeking bladder-preserving treatment. LaMont J. Barlow, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and pathology. He specializes in the treatment of bladder and prostate cancer. Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy A novel research test that detects changes in a panel of serum autoantibodies has the potential to predict which patients treated with adjuvant immunotherapies are likely to have their cancer recur or have severe immune-related adverse events, according to a Clinical Cancer Research Developed by investigators at NYU Langone Health’s , the test may help physicians and patients make more informed treatment decisions. “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers.” “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers,” says , senior author of the study and the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Revealing Hidden Susceptibility The current work focused on patients with melanoma who received adjuvant therapy with either of two leading checkpoint inhibitors, nivolumab or ipilimumab, or a combination of the two agents, as part of large phase 3 clinical trials. The research team suspected that certain patients might have higher levels of key autoantibodies before treatment, but not enough to be detected clinically as autoimmune disease. This hidden susceptibility would then be triggered by checkpoint inhibitors to cause immune-related adverse events. A Score-Based Prediction System For the study, the researchers obtained blood samples from 950 patients enrolled in either CheckMate 238 CheckMate 915 , both phase 3 randomized controlled trials of adjuvant checkpoint inhibitors in patients with advanced melanoma. Tumors in these patients had been surgically removed, and blood samples collected were before they received treatment. The new research test employs a protein microarray containing over 21,000 proteins, covering more than 81 percent of the human proteome. When an antibody in a blood sample recognizes any of the proteins present on the microarray, those spots glow with the signal intensifying as the concentration of antibody increases. Based on the newly identified panel of autoantibodies, and using statistical modeling, co-senior author Judy Zhong, PhD , a professor of population health, developed a score-based prediction system for each treatment. Patients with a high autoantibody recurrence score were found to have quicker disease return than those with a lower score. Similarly, patients with higher pretreatment autoantibody toxicity scores were significantly more likely to develop severe immune-related adverse events than those with lower scores. Importantly, the autoantibody recurrence signature outperformed a clinical model that is the current benchmark for identifying patients likely to respond to immunotherapy. “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events.” “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events,” says Dr. Zhong. Further Testing Ahead Although the current findings support the predictive utility of the autoantibody scores by comparing them with data from clinical trials, more research is needed to validate the value of such a test in the clinic, and to better understand the relationship between autoantibodies, recurrence, and toxicity. NYU Langone researchers plan to test the predictive value of autoantibody signatures in patients with the other cancer types for which checkpoint inhibitors are currently approved for use. Iman Osman, MD, is the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, a professor of medicine and urology, associate dean for clinical research strategy, and the director of the Interdisciplinary Melanoma Cooperative Group. Her research focuses on melanoma. Judy Zhong, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her methodological research interests focus on causal biomarker identification, bias correction for odds ratios from genomic analysis, and high-dimensional directed network inference. Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? A groundbreaking study reveals toxic fatty acids are to blame. Blocking astrocyte production of toxic lipoproteins in mice preserved 75 percent of neurons. When production was not blocked, only 10 percent of neurons survived. ADAPTED FROM: Nature, 2021 Nov;599(7883):102-107. , has long known astrocytes in the brain release a toxin in response to neurodegeneration, but until now, the toxic molecule’s identity has remained a mystery. Dr. Liddelow and colleagues sifted through thousands of lipids, proteins, and metabolites generated by astrocytes. They found certain fats in high abundance: long-chain saturated fatty acids and phosphatidylcholines. Results of the experiments, , show damaged brain cells in mice are killed by the fats. Healthy cells are resistant. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death.” Further, the study found blocking formation of these fats in mice mitigates neurodegeneration, preserving 75 percent of neurons as compared to only 10 percent in mice that still produced the toxins. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death and provide a promising new target for treating, and perhaps even preventing, many neurodegenerative diseases,” Dr. Liddelow says. The study offers detailed molecular insight into how tissue damage might lead to brain cell death across neurodegenerative diseases, including in Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, and multiple sclerosis, he adds. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for five days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of more than 30 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. View the full list of our presenters “The Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) Experience in an Outpatient Neurology Setting” ; presenters Sujata Thawani, Rachel Kenney, Lisena Hasanaj, Jennifer Frontera, Azizi Seixas, Steven L. Galetta, Laura Balcer; session name: S18: COVID-19: From Bedside and Beyond “At-Home Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) for Teleinterventions: Safety and Tolerability with Remote Supervision” ; presenters Giuseppina Pilloni, Pamela Best, Allan George, Matthew Lustberg, Ibraheem Mirza, Lana Zhovtis Ryerson, Lauren Krupp, Leigh Charvet; session name: S10: Neuro-rehabilitation: Neuromodulation “Vision-Specific Quality of Life in Patients with Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC)” ; presenters Peyton Meyer, Lisena Hasanaj, Rachel Kenney, Steven L. Galetta, Sujata Thawani, Laura Balcer; session name: P18: Neuro-ophthalmology Research: Vision 2 “Leading Under Adversity,” Steven L. Galetta, the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD Professor and Chair of Neurology “Top 10 Clinical, Educational and Administrative Pearls,” Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 Immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 were impaired in some patients receiving disease-modifying therapies. 212-263-0462 NTM Patient Education Program At NYU Langone’s Bronchiectasis and Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) Program, our healthcare team uses its dedication, experience, and research know-how to provide treatments that can improve the lives and life spans of people who have chronic lung ailments. nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections affect the lungs’ ability to clear mucus from airways. This buildup of fluid affects lung function and increases the chance of infection. Our program brings together a team of pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, infectious disease specialists, otolaryngologists, thoracic surgeons, physiatrists, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, and nutritionists who specialize in chest care to create a treatment plan that best meets the needs of each patient. Patients in our program work with a team of experts, including pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, and respiratory therapists. Our team is also committed to increasing education about these conditions. We host a patient education program on bronchiectasis and NTM infections that is aimed at helping patients better understand the condition and the treatment options available to them. Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Patient Education Program Discover the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. Learn More About Our NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone is a nationally recognized referral center for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis, NTM infections, and cystic fibrosis. Our physicians have treated more than 2,000 patients with these conditions, making us one of the leading care centers in the country. We are fully accredited by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. Clinical and Translational Research in Bronchiectasis, NTM, and Cystic Fibrosis We are dedicated to research in bronchiectasis, NTM, and cystic fibrosis. Our researchers conduct multidisciplinary clinical and translational research . This program enables our experts to integrate research findings with clinical care. We participate in the national research registry and have multiple clinical trials available to patients. Our physicians are leaders in the management of bronchiectasis, nontuberculous mycobacteria infections, and cystic fibrosis. They are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions and develop new therapies. Bronchiectasis Program Co-Director David L. Kamelhar Ashwin Basavaraj Bronchiectasis Program Associate Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Associate Director Leopoldo N. Segal Director, NYU Langone Translational Lung Biology Laboratory Cystic Fibrosis Center We help children and adults with cystic fibrosis manage symptoms and offer effective therapies. We treat people with conditions that affect the airway and make breathing difficult. We provide cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Airway Center are uniquely qualified to address respiratory conditions, sleep-disordered breathing, and hearing and speech difficulties that may result from upper airway problems. Our experts evaluate and treat people who have associated with a craniofacial problem or cleft palate, and the resonance disorders that can occur if there are obstructions in the nose, mouth, or pharynx, which is where the nasal passages connect to the mouth and throat. Our team members collaborate closely with you and your family as well as with NYU Langone craniofacial experts Meet Our Team Our airway experts include an otolaryngologist, pulmonologist, pediatric nurse practitioner, and speech-language pathologist. Scott M. Rickert David A. Staffenberg 212-263-7710 212-263-2828 At NYU Langone’s Adrenal Surgery Program, people with adrenal disease can receive treatment from our team of experts—endocrinologists, cardiologists, radiologists, and laparoscopic endocrine surgeons—on the same day, at one location. Our specialists treat a range of adrenal conditions, including the following: adrenal tumors adrenocortical carcinoma aldosteroma, also known as Conn’s syndrome The adrenal glands—small organs located on the top of each kidney—produce multiple hormones that are important for your body to function. Adrenal disease occurs when there is a tumor on the adrenal gland, or when there is a hyperactive gland. Tumors of the adrenal glands are often hormonally active, and may result in high blood pressure, rapid heart rate, headache, sweating, easy bruising, fatigue, fluid retention, low potassium levels, and additional symptoms. Early detection by an experienced care team is very important. Whether your doctor recommends surgery or another approach, physicians at our Adrenal Surgery Program use minimally invasive techniques for the majority of patients. Most adrenal surgeries at NYU Langone require just three to four tiny incisions, using a camera and special instruments—what’s known as laparoscopic adrenalectomy. This permits faster recovery, an earlier return to work and other activities, less pain, and more favorable cosmetic results than conventional “open” surgery. Our surgeons have specialized training in laparoscopic surgery, and perform the surgery with dedicated nursing teams and specialized rooms. Almost all patients return home 24 to 48 hours after surgery or other type of adrenal procedure. Our team includes experts in adrenal surgery, endocrinology, nephrology, and interventional radiology. David T. Liu Manish S. Parikh 212-263-0906 Experts in NYU Langone’s Bloodless Medicine and Surgery Program use a variety of techniques to limit or avoid the use of blood transfusions and blood products during surgery or other medical procedures. These strategies, known as bloodless surgery or patient blood management, are aimed at minimizing the use of donor blood or blood products such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, and platelets. Patient Blood Management During COVID-19 Our experts discuss issues related to patient blood management during the pandemic. Our team is highly trained in the latest patient blood management techniques and technology that can reduce blood loss and conserve blood during procedures. Minimally invasive robotic surgery typically helps decrease blood loss through the use of tiny incisions and smaller surgical tools. Our surgeons are skilled in performing these types of procedures in many specialty areas, including , including hip and knee surgery. Research shows that people who avoid receiving blood transfusions have fewer infections and allergic reactions, a faster recovery, and a shorter hospital stay. They can also have fewer complications after surgery. A bloodless approach to treatment also helps prevent exposure to blood-borne viruses and infections. Many people prefer not to have blood transfusions for religious, medical, or personal reasons. Our team believes in supporting your right as a patient to make informed decisions involving your care. We respect your beliefs and work with you to accommodate individual blood management needs and preferences. After meeting with you to discuss blood management options, our doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other support staff work together to create a treatment plan. We offer various blood conservation techniques and tools to reduce the potential need for blood transfusions before, during, and after surgery. Our team of experts helps prepare you for surgery by screening you for anemia, a condition that develops when your blood does not have enough healthy red blood cells. If necessary, we provide treatment for anemia and ensure adequate levels of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. Appointments and Referrals A dedicated coordinator works with you, your family, and your doctors to answer your questions. We also provide assistance with doctor referrals and education about your treatment options. For physicians wishing to refer a patient to our program, to schedule an inpatient consult, or for questions about patient rights and bloodless surgery options, please call us at #bloodlessmedicine@nyulangone.org Our program is led by Dr. Seth Perelman, MD, and supported by Sharon Sledge, MA, MS, RN, program coordinator, and Mark Pollard, MHSA, vice president of professional services. Seth Perelman Clinical Lead Nicole M. Adler Alexandra L. Argiroff Deborah M. Axelrod Breast Cancer Surgeon Myint M. Aye Karl Bednarek Nina Beri Gastrointestinal Oncologist Sheila N. Blumberg Brian P. Bosworth Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctor James D. Capozzi View All 225 Doctors & 225 Patient and Family Support Visiting Hours View All Locations (6) We have several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island Your Emergency Care Visit At NYU Langone, we know that emergencies can happen anywhere. That’s why we offer emergency care at several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island, so you can easily access medical treatment for minor and serious injuries and illnesses. Our Commitment to Quality Care We are dedicated to providing one high standard of outstanding care in all of the communities we serve, offering the best outcomes to our patients. Our experts at the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine treat adults and children for minor and serious injuries and medical conditions. Each year, more than 400,000 people visit our emergency care locations. Our doctors and staff provide treatment for adults and children experiencing serious medical conditions including heart attack, stroke, and infections, as well as minor emergencies such as broken bones. Learn about our emergency care services for children provided through When to Seek Emergency Care When you have a serious injury or illness, don’t wait to seek emergency care. Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department if you are experiencing any of the following symptoms: Our doctors provide immediate care for adults and children who need medical attention for non–life-threatening conditions, injuries, and illnesses. severe abdominal pain coughing or vomiting blood a severe burn a deep cut or bleeding that won’t stop sudden blurred vision difficulty breathing or shortness of breath a seizure sudden dizziness, weakness, or loss of coordination or balance numbness in the face, arm, or leg sudden, severe headache a high fever You should also seek emergency care for any other symptom you think is serious. Our Locations (6) 570 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Emergency Care Wait Time Minutes* 212-263-5550 718-630-7185 332-210-7536 Medical Records Fax 212-598-7600 For minor medical concerns that need care today or tomorrow, schedule a Virtual UrgentCare video visit to video chat with an NYU Langone Health care provider. *Wait time cannot be guaranteed as it is based on patient needs at the time of your arrival. Critically ill patients will be seen immediately. Updated every 5 minutes. Review information to prepare you for a visit to one of our emergency departments. View Information About Your Emergency Department Visit Smoke-Free Policy Weapon-Free Zone $10 Million Gift Boosts Access to World-Class Emergency Care Our Pediatric Experts Offer Tips to Help Kids Weather Summer Tips for Preventing Summertime Injuries in Children Federal Grant Will Fund New Ambulances Virtual Urgent Care Helps Get Nurse Manager to the ER By Tracking Daily Clinical Data, NYU Langone Remains Nimble A Solid Game Plan Ensures Calm Amid the COVID-19 Storm Keeping Patients Safe in Our Emergency Departments In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 found that patients on certain disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) for multiple sclerosis (MS) had markedly impaired adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection, although immune responses did not correlate with COVID-19 clinical severity. Lead researcher , a professor of neurology, says the team was surprised by the findings. “Understanding the impact of DMTs on the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 is critical for counseling patients with MS about COVID-19 risks and determining whether a patient on a particular DMT is likely to derive a similar degree of protective immunity as healthy individuals,” Dr. Kister says. Responses After Natural Infection MS is treated with several therapies that may impair immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The widely used anti-CD20 (aCD20) therapies have been associated with reduced antibody titers following infection, potentially due to depletion of peripheral B cells that would otherwise be available for recruitment into germinal centers for antigen-mediated activation and clonal expansion. “T cell responses following natural infection in aCD20-treated patients have received less attention, but are an active area of investigation,” Dr. Kister says. “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators” Research Design and Findings Between January and July 2021, 389 patients with clinician-diagnosed MS aged 18 to 60 years were tested for anti-nucleocapsid and anti-spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibodies. Antibody responses to spike protein, RBD and N-terminal domain (NTD), and T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein were also tested using a variety of assays. The mean age of study participants was 40.3 years; 74 percent were female and 62 percent were non-white. The most common DMTs were ocrelizumab (40 percent), natalizumab (17 percent), and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators (12 percent). After testing, 177 patients (46 percent) had laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, including 130 symptomatic cases and 47 asymptomatic cases. Among the participants, COVID-19 clinical course was mild overall, with only 9 patients (7 percent) hospitalized–these results did not differ across DMTs. Antibody responses were markedly attenuated in patients treated with ocrelizumab compared to other groups. T cell responses were significantly decreased in patients treated with S1P receptor modulators and increased in patients treated with natalizumab. Cellular and humoral responses were moderately correlated for patients treated with ocrelizumab and for patients treated with non-OCR DMTs. Neither clinical nor immunologic outcomes differed by race/ethnicity. Differences in DMTs “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators,” Dr. Kister says. “It is also reassuring that patients whose B cells were depleted with therapy still had similarly robust T cell memory to infection as did untreated patients.” Based on these results, Dr. Kister and his team are conducting more in-depth studies to better understand the humoral–cellular dissociation in aCD20-treated patients, and to identify predictors of immune response in patients on different DMTs. Ilya Kister, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Neuromyelitis Optica Treatment and Research Program. His research interests include the effects of COVID-19 vaccination on antibody response in patients with multiple sclerosis. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Study finds 86 percent become orgasmic by one year after robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, with more regaining ability after one year. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD Patients with melanoma develop brain metastasis at a higher rate than those with any other common cancer, with an estimated 40 to 50 percent of stage 4 melanomas spreading to the brain . A new study led by NYU Langone Health researchers implicates proteins better known for their roles in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease in that metastasis. The study, , demonstrated that amyloid beta (Aβ) is essential for the growth and survival of melanoma cells in brain parenchyma. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it,” says , who led the research team. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it.” In addition to suggesting a key role played by Aβ in advancing metastasis, the team showed in a proof-of-principle demonstration that beta-secretase inhibitors (BACEi) initially developed for Alzheimer’s disease may hold promise in delaying and significantly reducing the growth of brain metastasis in melanoma. “We are trying to repurpose small molecule inhibitors and antibodies that were originally developed to target Aβ,” she says. “It’s very exciting but still early days for testing it.” A New Research Model Previous models of brain metastasis had yielded inconsistent results in differential gene expression. Dr. Hernando-Monge’s research team used a more physiological model consisting of short-term cultures of metastatic melanoma cells resected during patient surgeries to better represent the heterogeneity of the initial tumors. The group then used a proteomics analysis to compare 12 brain metastases with 12 extracranial metastases, including some pairs that had been resected from the same patient. Some of the proteins upregulated in metastatic melanoma are involved in mitochondrial metabolism and scavenging of reactive oxygen species, suggesting a means by which melanoma cells in the brain may tamp down oxidative stress. In addition, the researchers found a significant upregulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) as well as multiple proteins involved in processing and cleaving APP into Aβ. Dr. Hernando-Monge hypothesizes that melanoma cells arriving in the brain adopt neural-like features and secrete soluble Aβ. Surrounding astrocytes would normally warn of the new threat, prompting microglia to phagocytose the metastatic cells. But Aβ may temper that normal immune response and enlist the astrocytes in a noninflammatory role that promotes growth of melanoma cells instead. The group is now testing BACEi or anti-Aβ antibodies alone and in combination with immunotherapy as a potential treatment for brain metastasis, Dr. Hernando-Monge says. Linking an Epigenetic Regulator to Metastasis A second study led by Dr. Hernando-Monge’s team and has helped clarify why some melanomas metastasize and others don’t, even after being fully resected. “Years later, in some patients, there will be a recurrence or even a distal metastasis,” she says. “But when we compare the stage 1 or 2 tumors that have recurred with those that have not recurred, we don’t see any genetic mutation that distinguishes them.” For years, the lab has hypothesized that epigenetic mechanisms could be drivers of the metastatic behavior. Through a systematic meta-analysis and mini-screen for chromatin-regulating genes consistently altered in metastasis, the group identified a protein called plant homeodomain finger protein 8, or PHF8, that is upregulated in metastatic melanoma cells compared to primary cancer cells. Silencing PHF8, a histone demethylase, via two separate mechanisms had no effect on cell proliferation, but consistently reduced cell invasion in an in vitro assay. In a mouse model, silencing PHF8 also yielded a reduction in metastasis. To shine more light on the potential mechanism, the study in turn characterized how the pro-metastatic TGF-β pathway is regulated by PHF8. Since the epigenetic regulator shares homology with multiple members of the same family, targeting it with sufficient specificity may be difficult. Even so, Dr. Hernando-Monge says other techniques, such as targeting PHF8 for degradation by linking it to a ubiquitin ligase enzyme or targeting other proteins downstream of its regulatory activity, may yet allow the pathway to be targeted therapeutically. “There is much more that this PHF8 story has yet to reveal,” she says. Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD, is a professor of pathology and the assistant dean for research integration. She focuses on melanoma and metastasis-related research. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Janice Mehnert, MD, is among the researchers at Perlmutter Cancer Center conducting early-stage oncology trials. Over the past 30 years there has been a considerable effort on the part of researchers to improve the design and accuracy of early-phase oncology trials . One such effort is the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) , a partnership program sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI)–Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) to evaluate early-phase trials in high-priority areas of unmet need through collaboration with a dozen Lead Academic Organizations (LAOs). has officially joined the ETCTN as part of the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center LAO. , a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research, is serving as site principal investigator (PI) for the network. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” “Joining the ETCTN grants our center access to a broader network of early-stage trials conducted by NCI-CTEP,” Dr. Mehnert says. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” Testing Novel Agents in Early-Phase Trials Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH , an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program, is conducting early-stage research and supporting the national execution of new oncology trials, a primary focus of the ETCTN. One NCI Investigational New Drug (NCI-IND) currently under evaluation is peposertib, a selective DNA-PK inhibitor, which showed synergy with radiotherapy and some chemotherapies in preclinical studies. Recent evidence suggests that peposertib could enhance the efficacy of standard therapeutic regimens in selected tumor types. Dr. Spencer is serving as national PI for CTEP protocol 10276 , an NCI-sponsored trial of peposertib in combination with avelumab and hypofractionated radiation therapy in patients with solid tumors and hepatobiliary malignancies. Another NCI-IND is ASTX727, a unique fixed-dose combination of the hypomethylating agent decitabine and the cytidine deaminase inhibitor cedazuridine. When administered in combination with immunotherapy, ASTX727 may help stimulate the body’s immune system to attack cancer, and interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Clinical Lymphoma Program, is acting as PI for CTEP protocol 10508 , an NCI-sponsored trial evaluating the combination of ASTX727 and nivolumab for relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma. “These are two examples of innovative early-phase trials initiated through the ETCTN partnership,” Dr. Spencer says, adding that faculty will have increased opportunities to design investigator-initiated studies with CTEP. Advancing Biomarker Discovery In addition to supporting early-stage clinical trials, the ETCTN also provides support for studies that incorporate biomarker development and molecular characterization of biospecimens. Dr. Spencer anticipates the ETCTN partnership will streamline processes required for coordinated biomarker analyses. On a national level, Dr. Spencer is also chair of the Genomics Subcommittee of the ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group , a membership-based network of nearly 1,300 academic and community-based cancer centers that design and conduct cancer research. Collaboration with Other Research Leaders A key benefit of the ETCTN is the opportunity to partner with other leading cancer centers, including investigators from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center and Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, for their own expertise in timely activation and conduction of early-phase oncology trials, says Dr. Mehnert. “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies.” “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies,” Dr. Mehnert says. Janice Mehnert, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She also serves as director of melanoma and cutaneous medical oncology and co-director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program. Her research focus is on the development of novel therapies for skin and other advanced cancers. Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focus is on the development of innovative cancer treatments, including novel immunotherapies and targeted therapies in early stages of clinical development. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Delicious Asian Green Curry with Coconut Milk – vegan and organic with chickpeas, bell pepper, tomatoes, coriander, zucchini, ginger, garlic While plant-based diets are increasingly popular and have many well-established benefits for health, emerging evidence suggests they might also reduce prostate cancer risk. systematic review , clinical assistant professor of urology at NYU Langone Health, and Stacy Loeb, MD, PhD (Hon) , professor of urology and population health, found lifestyle modifications incorporating a plant-based diet were associated with improved oncologic outcomes in men with favorable-risk prostate cancer on active surveillance and those with biochemical recurrence after initial therapy. “Prostate cancer diagnosis is a teachable moment, and studies show that providing counseling about nutrition can lead to sustained improvements in dietary habits among men with prostate cancer,” Dr. Gupta says. Reviewing the Literature The research team searched major databases for studies that included primary data on plant-based dietary patterns and incidence among at-risk men for prostate cancer, or oncologic, general health/nutrition, or quality of life outcomes among patients diagnosed with prostate cancer. They found 31 publications that included a total of 16 interventional and 15 observational studies. The majority of interventional studies showed improvements in short-term oncologic outcomes, alongside improvements in general health and nutrition. Epidemiologic studies primarily focused on prostate cancer risk, showing either protective or null associations for plant-based dietary patterns, while studies of the vegan diet consistently showed favorable associations with risk and/or outcomes. “Our systematic review confirms that plant-based diets may help to prevent prostate cancer and, for patients with prostate cancer, reduce the risk of progression,” Dr. Loeb says. Other Potential Benefits Exploring plant-based dietary patterns is particularly timely as they have been suggested as a potential solution to current global issues including emerging infectious diseases and climate change, the researchers add. “Antibiotic resistance is another major public health threat, and there is increasing concern about the contribution from use of antimicrobial drugs in food-producing animals,” Dr. Gupta says. “Overall, the findings are encouraging in light of the many benefits of plant-based diets for overall health, environmental sustainability, and animal welfare.” Further Research As a follow-up to this review, the researchers are planning a number of interventional studies. “We’re planning a pilot study for firefighters in