the databases; or need additional copies of this publication, contact:Technical Information and Editorial Services BranchCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford Hwy, NE, Mailstop K 13Atlanta, GA 30341 3717(770) 488 5080XXXVQuestions on programmatic issues may be directed to:J. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.Division of Adult and Community HealthNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford Hwy, NE, Mailstop K 45Atlanta, GA 30341 3717(770) 488 5440jnbl@cdc.govxxxviHow to Use This PublicationArrangement ofItemsItems in this publication are arranged in two sections, Selected Annotations (Section I) and Programs inthe United States (Section II). Within each section there are several subsections arranged by subject.Items in each part are listed in alphabetical order by title. The items are numbered sequentially, begin ning with 001.IndexesThis publication contains three indexes for each Section. For Section I, the Title Index lists documenttitles, the Author Index lists personal and corporate authors, and the Subject Index lists selected keywords describing the content of publications. For Section II, the Title Index lists program titles, theProgram Coordinator Index lists program directors and program contacts, and the Subject Index listsselected key words describing the content of programs.If you know the title of a publication or pro gram, use the Title Index.If you are looking for a publication produced by a person or agency, use theAuthor Index.If you are looking for a program conducted by a particular person, use the ProgramCoordinator Index.If you want to identify items in a specific subject area, use the Subject Index.Data ElementsA citation and abstract are listed for each item in this publication. Data elements for Section I includethe item number, title, form, author or corporate author, source and availability when noted, abstract,and CHID accession number.012Bringing Providers to the People: Alaska and aFlorida County Blaze New Trails in Non PhysicianCare Delivery.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(3):56, 58,60, February 5, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describes Alaska'sCommunity Health Aide Program, which trains villageresidents to deliver emergency and primary preventivecare to villagers who live hundreds of miles from thenearest hospital and physician.Volunteers used by thefederal government to dispense medications during thetuberculosis epidemic in the 1950's eventually becameknown as community health aides (CHA's). Today, morethan 400 CHA's, village residents who are selected bymembers of the community, provide health care to45,000 people in Alaska's 171 villages. CHA's musthave at least a sixth grade reading level and knowledgeof math. They participate in a 4 month session ofclassroom instruction and skills practice to learn basichistory taking, physical assessment, and diagnosticskills. Before they begin practicing independently, theymust complete 2 to 3 years of clinical observation byphysicians. The state contributes $2 million annually intraining funds to the CHA project, but most fundingcomes from the Indian Health Service, a federal agencythat delivers and oversees care through Alaska's 12Native Health Corporations. The CHA program hasbrought about a dramatic improvement in the Alaskanpopulation's health status over the past decade, promptingmarked declines in cases of hepatitis B, gonorrhea, andrheumatic fever. Health officials in Pinellas County,Florida, have proposed that the county follow Alaska'slead by expanding their own emergency medicalxxxvnpersonnel and allowing paramedics to deliver primaryhealth services to the indigent. Officials have beenunable to implement the program, however, because ofpractice and licensing laws and other barriers.(HE9700078)Among the data elements included for Section II are the program name, program contact, agency,program dates, health topics addressed, target population, and CHID accession number.ProgramContactAgencyProgram DatesDelivery SitesFunding Source(s)Primary PurposeServices OfferedMaterials UsedHealth Topic(s) AddressedGeographic Area/UnitProgram SettingTarget PopulationCHA TitleCHA RolesCHA TrainingCHA Compensation204Breast and Cervical Cancer Education.Carcar, Noemi.Mercy Mobile Health Care, 60 11th Street, Atlanta, GA 30309.(404)249 8104.March 1995 continuing.Homes, community sites, hospital/medical clinic.Fannie Mae Foundation, Avon Foundation.To educate low income Hispanic and Asian American women about earlydetection of breast and cervical cancer to make referrals for clinicalexaminations.Patient outreach and education, cancer detection tests.Shower cards, handouts/brochures, breast model, cervix model.Breast and cervical cancer.Multicounty.Community based agency, religious institution, hospital.Low income Hispanic and Asian American women living in a five county areain Georgia.Outreach worker, resource specialist.Outreach, health promotion/education, follow up.40 hours of initial training and1 hour per month of inservice training.$8.50 per hour plus health insurance, tuition reimbursement, and mileagereimbursement.xxxvmNumber of CHA'sNumber of ClientsServed in 12 MonthsEvaluation PlanMethods Used toRecruit CHA'sMethods Used toRetain CHA'sMethods Used toRecruit ClientsMethods Used toRetain ClientsCHID Accession Number3.1,053.Yes.Networking with community based organizations, internal posting ofjob opportunities, word of mouth.Educational opportunities, health benefits.Outreach/education, clinical services.Case management follow up, employee dedication and persistence.CP96P0481.Obtaining Additional InformationThis publication provides source and availability information for each item when noted. For moreinformation about a program or publication, contact the agencies or persons listed.xxxixSECTION IThe Community Health Advisor/WorkerConceptual Models001Community Health Workers:IntegralMembers of the Health Care Work Force.Form:Journal article.Authors: Witmer, A.; Seifer, S.D.; Finocchio,L.; Leslie, J.; O'Neil, E.H.Source: American Journal of Public Health.85(8): 1055 1058, August 1995.Abstract: The authors describe the role of thecommunity health worker (CHW) in thechanging health care delivery system. CHW'sare broadly defined as community memberswho work almost exclusively in communitysettings and who serve as connectors betweenhealth care consumers and providers to promotehealth among groups that have traditionallylacked access to adequate care.Historically,partnerships have formed with community based care systems such as community andmigrant health centers, homeless health careprograms, and public health departments. Morerecently, CHW programs have developedpartnerships with academic medical centers andmanaged care organizations. CHW's havecontributed to the delivery of primary andpreventive care by increasing access to healthcare for high risk populations in underservedareas, improving the quality of care, reducingthe costs of care, and contributing tocommunity empowerment and growth.Barriersto the use of CHW's include (1) the lack of astandard definition and conceptualization ofwho CHW's are and what they do, (2) the lackof legitimacy granted to CHW's by degreedhealth professionals, and (3) the lack of securefunding. Recommendations for strengtheningand expanding the use of CHW's include (1)creation of a national forum of CHW programsand a national clearinghouse to facilitate thedissemination of information to policymakers,health care delivery organizations, anddeveloping programs; (2) development of aCHW/community partnerships grant programwith funds from federal or private organizationsto expand and strengthen existing programs andcreate new ones; (3) provision of federalgovernment funds for basic research on CHW'sand randomized trials of CHW interventions;and (4) creation of opportunities for continuingeducation, professional recognition, and careeradvancement for CHW's. 37 references.(HE9600948)002Community Outreach and CommunityMobilization: Options for Health at theU.S. Mexico Border.Form:Paper.Author:Meister, J.S.Source:Phoenix, AZ, Arizona Department ofHealth Services, 10 p., April 1996.Abstract:This paper offers a rationale forspecialized efforts to increase health care accessalong the U.S. Mexico border. The authorargues that two models, community outreachand community mobilization, can beimplemented successfully. Communityoutreach programs aim to overcome problemssuch as lack of transportation or child care, lackof information, lack of fluency in English, and aview of health and illness that defines care asappropriate for treatment of acute or emergencycare only. The most highly developedcommunity outreach model is usually referredto as the promotora, or community healthadvisor. Community mobilization modelsThe Community Health Advisor/Workerstress high participation by communitymembers and are generally based on the ideathat health, including access to health care, is asystemic problem and the solutions must besystemic. The models incorporate outreach andenable community members to educatethemselves about health problems and solutionsand then bring about changes in communitynorms and practices. The proposed programwill use volunteer community health advisors tofocus on family based individual problemswithin the community. The integration of thesetwo models, both focusing on health care accessissues, would be a natural development inattempts to improve the quality of life on theborder. The models can be joined by theinclusion of outreach specialists into thecommunity mobilization type of program. Theauthor concludes that integration of thecommunity outreach and communitymobilization models, coupled with emphasis onseven thematic issues, can work to increaseaccess to health care services in the U.S. Mexico border region. This seven issues are:(1) culture of the border, (2) professional/community interface, (3) indigenous leadership,(4) expanding the definition of health, (5)immigration/migration, (6) transborder use, and(7) economic development.(HE9700617)003Conceptual Framework for Considerationin the Utilization of Health Aides.Form:Journal article.Author:Callan, L.B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.61(5):979 987, May 1971.Abstract: The author modified the SchoolHealth Education Study Model (SHES) todevelop a conceptual framework for use inhealth programs, focusing initially on the use ofindigenous aides. The author discusses thesteps an organization should follow todetermine whether to use health aides. Anaccurate, realistic identification of needs iscritical. Planning requires (1) an articulatedgoal, (2) assessment of resources, (3)commitment to meet the need, and (4)establishment of priorities. The next step isaide employment. A functional analysis shouldestablish (1) what needs to be done, (2) whatthe purpose is, (3) who might best perform thetasks, and (4) how the tasks can best beperformed. A job description should use basedon this analysis. The next step is recruitment,selection, and training of the aide.Pretrainingof potential supervisors is essential.Vital keysto the success of any training program are theselection of faculty and implementation andevaluation of the training, which depends on theterms of the job description and/or entry levelof each employee.It may involve acombination of academic training, on the jobtraining, weekly meetings with the projectdirector, and quarterly seminars attended by allthe aides and supervisors.Supervision isanother important process. The supervisors'assumptions can lead to successfulaccomplishment of organizational andindividual goals. The selected supervisory styleshould be a reflection of how an individualwould prefer to be supervised himself. Otherimportant considerations are when and howoften supervision can be exercised andcommunication within the supervisoryframework. A final important process isevaluation. To accurately evaluate the program,one must consider the goals of the endeavor tojudge quantitative results in light of changedbehavior and new behavioral practices. Theauthor concludes that not all health programpersonnel are equipped to involve aides in theirprograms and that the use of aides would beunsuitable in some health agencies andorganizations. 2 figures, 24 references.(HE9700310)Conceptual Models004Enhancing the Role of Community HealthWorkers in Research.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hill, M.N.; Bone, L.R.; Butz, A.M.Source: IMAGE:Journal of NursingScholarship.28(3):221 226, Fall 1996.Abstract: The authors discuss the need toenhance the role of community health workers(CHW's) in research. With the shift to moreprimary care, CHW's should be an integral partof health care teams, yet they are oftenoverlooked. They can serve as cross culturalagents and liaisons among the community, thehealth care system, and academic institutionsand can enhance investigators' access tocommunity leaders, resources, and studypopulations. Thus, they enrich thecomprehensiveness of a holistic scientificapproach to understanding health in acommunity. CHW's can assume one or more ofthe following roles: (1) research assistant, (2)recruitment coordinator, (3) data collector, (4)interventionist, and (5) project coordinator.Successful integration of the CHW's into theresearch team requires addressing (1) positioncharacteristics, (2) selection criteria andprocess, (3) training, (4) supervision, (5)retention, and (6) capacity building and careerdevelopment. Before deciding to use CHW's inresearch projects, administrators should beaware of the challenges and costs involved inthe use of CHW's, such as differences inacademic and community priorities andbalancing research productivity with CHWperformance and career development. Thebenefits of using CHW's (volunteer or paid) inresearch are (1) increased cultural sensitivity,(2) increased generalizability, (3) enhancedrecruitment and retention, and (4) potential costsavings. The authors conclude that thetransition from research to service still requiresrigorous evaluation.1 table, 38 references.(HE9700612)005Health and Rehabilitation ManpowerStrategy: New Careers and the Role of theIndigenous Paraprofessional.Form:Journal article.Author: Smith, R.T.Source:Social Science and Medicine.7(4):281 290, April 1973.Abstract: A strategy to alleviate the acutehealth manpower shortage in the United Statesinvolves increasing the supply of allied andauxiliary health personnel and developing newtypes of paraprofessional roles that serve tosupplement the health professionals. One of theinnovative health manpower approachesinvolves employing persons of low income orundereducation in human services fields, withprovisions for job upgrading through work study programs.Essential components of thisnew careers model include (1) full timeemployment; (2) on the job skill training; (3)remedial and postsecondary educationaltraining with release time to engage in thisactivity; (4) career ladder advancement throughprogressive job opportunities requiring higherlevels of skill and greater responsibility; (5)supportive service during training (e.g., childcare, welfare, and medical assistance); and (6)agency job commitment and placement oncompletion of training. The attainment ofjobskills and knowledge, combined with formaleducational achievement, provides a newpathway to paraprofessional status in the alliedhealth manpower sector. The worker canpursue a dual track of job advancement, throughwork and education, somewhat akin to thesystem used in the military and private industry.The new careers model is part of a more generalchange strategy in the development and use ofThe Community Health Advisor/Workerindigenous paraprofessionals in the health careand rehabilitation system. This strategy definesthe role of the new paraprofessional in terms offour broadly conceived functions: (1) bridgingor linking, (2) client advocacy, (3) helpertherapy, and (4) change agent. As a strategy forincreasing the number of allied health workersand for providing the disadvantaged with careerjob opportunities, the new careers model hasmet with limited success, perhaps because oflack of program implementation rather thaninherent defects of this model. Still unclear isthe extent to which these programs are viableand functionally relevant to the long range goalof providing comprehensive and continuousservice to those in need in the community.2 tables, 39 references. (HE9700305)006Health Care and Community Action.Form:Journal article.Author: Donoso, G.Source: WHO Chronicle.32(3): 102 105,March 1978.Abstract:In most developing countries, thegoal of health for all by the year 2000 will notbe achieved unless effective, low cost healthcare is put into practice and untappedmanpower and other community resources areused. The greatest health gap in developingcountries is among children under age 5 yearsand by extension their pregnant or nursingmothers. The World Health Organization(WHO) has identified the need to redirectresources from conventional disease orientedcurative programs to preventive communityhealth programs designed to improve the healthstatus of underserved people. Communityparticipation and self reliance are essential toprimary health care. Community resourcesmust be supplemented by essential supplies,technical supervision and training, and a systemfor the referral of severe cases to higher healthcenters. Health programs should emphasizelow cost activities that have a proven effect onreducing sickness and death. Programs shouldrely on local people trained to carry outactivities and to promote communityorganization for health. The community mustaccept the work and advice of the trainedcommunity health worker. Continuous trainingand supervision of community health workersare essential to improve their technical abilitiesand their standing in the community. WHO hasestablished these priorities:(1) Preconceptual,prenatal, natal, and postnatal care; (2) familyplanning; (3) promotion of healthy growththrough protecting children's nutritional statusduring the first 5 years of life; (4) treatment andprevention of infections in mothers andchildren; and (5) promotion of family self reliance in health care through health education.WHO is collaborating with member states in(1) improving support from the central level bygiving family health needs the highest place inhealth planning and in the administration andallocation of resources; (2) training teacherswho will train community health workers andauxiliary personnel; (3) developing guidelines,curricula, and manuals adapted for thecommunity level; (4) improving treatment andprevention of acute diarrheal diseases; (5)making available information and services forfertility regulation; (6) encouraging improvedcare during pregnancy and childbirth throughthe training of auxiliary and traditionalmidwives; (7) promoting improved nutrition aspart of family health; (8) promoting health andnutrition education aimed at breaking the linksbetween malnutrition, infection, anduncontrolled childbearing; and (9) promotingexpanded programs of immunization.4 references. (HE9700088)Conceptual Models007High Risk Vulnerable Populations andVolunteers: A Model of Education andService Collaboration.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hutchison, R.R.; Quartaro, E.G.Source:Journal of Community HealthNursing.12(2): 11 1 1 19, 1995.Abstract:Health educators present a model ofcollaboration between education and serviceorganizations for the preparation of volunteers,who caring for high risk vulnerablepopulations, such as frail elderly persons,homeless persons, persons with chronic mentalillness, and persons with acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Factorsthat contribute to successful collaborationinclude (1) the ethos of volunteerism; (2) thecongruence of the missions of education andservice institutions; (3) the maturity of thecollaborating organizations; (4) structuralsimilarities and differences; (5) accreditationand standard setting requirements; (6)homogeneity of clients, caregivers, and faculty;and (7) ethical, social, and legal issues.Volunteers include elderly, student,professional, and retired people and people ofall ethnic, racial, religious, and socioeconomiclevels. Professionals need help to empowervolunteers to meet the needs of high riskvulnerable populations. The broader themissions of the educational institution and theservice agency, the greater the likelihood thattheir purposes will encompass each other.Identification of common ground between theorganizations is the foundation of collaboration.The presence of highly professional staff atevery level of mature organizations lessens thelead times and the preparatory interactionsneeded by the personnel involved. Tolerance ofthe zone of discretion of each organization andan ability to negotiate the unanticipateddifferences and grey areas will advance thegoals of the collaboration.Structuralsimilarities and differences of collaboratingorganizations that must be considered includesize, time, space, degree of formality, andhierarchial versus collegial organizationalmodels. The early determination of sources ofpotential conflicts and their management arekey to sustaining accreditation standards whilesupporting experimentation. Awareness of theneed for homogeneity of cultures, especiallyethnicity, is crucial to the collaborative effort.The cultural context includes age, sex,socioeconomic status, sexual orientation,religion, and health attitudes and practices.Ethical and social issues in working with high risk vulnerable populations includeconfidentiality and perceived threats of harm.Contracts with the collaborating organizationsshould be as explicit as possible to guaranteeshared and mutual understanding of the roles,goals, outcomes, and means of assessment ofprogram effectiveness; contracts also limit therisks to which the collaborators and theirrespective sites are exposed.1 table,16 references. (HE9700089)008Lay Health Advisor InterventionStrategies: A Continuum From NaturalHelping to Paraprofessional Helping.Form:Journal article.Authors: Eng, E.; Parker, E.; Harlan, C.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4):413 417, August 1997.Abstract: More public health professionals areexploring the strategy of working through layhealth advisors (LHA's) to contact communitiesconsidered hard to reach and to establishmeaningful linkages to the service deliverysystem. A lay health advisor is one who isindigenous to the community and acts as a linkThe Community Health Advisor/Workerbetween community members and the servicedelivery system. Whether called communityhealth advisors, community health workers,health aides, natural helpers, navigators,paraprofessionals, peer educators, promotoras,or outreach workers, LHA's share three basicprinciples of public health practice:(1) thebasic assumption that social networks throughwhich community members offer and receivesocial support among one another is a naturalresoure available in most communites; (2) therole of the practitioner is to recruit, train, andsupport community members who can directlyreach and offer social support to those in need;and (3) the role of the recruited and trainedcommunity members is to bridge the agencies'formal service delivery system and thecommunities' informal social support system.LHA intervention strategies range frominformal to formal helping. At the formal endof the continuum is the paraprofessional LHAstrategy, which involves individuals carryingout tasks that would normally be carried out bypractitioners. At the other end of the continuumis the natural helping LHA strategy. Naturalhelpers are people with a reputation in thecommunity for good judgment, sound advice, acaring ear, and discretion. These people oftendo not meet the qualifications set by an agency,although they help people in their socialnetworks with needs that cannot be met by thehealth system and they negotiate withprofessionals for support from the healthsystem. The natural helping of these LHA'sprovides a community based system of care andsocial support that complements the morespecialized functions of health professionals.1 figure, 8 references. (HE9701115)009Problem Based Strategies PromotingCommunity Transformation: Implicationsfor the Community Health Worker Model.Form:Journal article.Authors:Barnes, M.D.; Fairbanks, J.Source: Family and Community Health.20(l):54 65, April 1997.Abstract: The problem posing techniquesdescribed by Paulo Freire provide a model forcommunity transformation with the potentialfor community health workers (CHW's) to actas key agents of change. Community memberscan best identify relevant health problems anddevelop realistic plans to address them.Problem posing is a participatory process inwhich organized community groups andfacilitators collaborate through dialogue, criticalthought, problem identification, and grassrootssolutions to promote community change. Thisapproach shifts the locus of control from theexperts to the participants or learners. TheFreire problem posing approach promotes thelearner as a full participant and encouragesconsensus building, sharing, and respect forothers' values and opinions.It shares severalcharacteristics with problem based learning:(1) relevant issues and problems influenceparticipation, (2) participants are both learnersand teachers, (3) participants identify and solveproblems, (4) participants learn through self discovery, (5) the process is a cycle of reflectionand action, and (6) community transformationis carried out by the community membersthemselves. CHW's are in a prime position toassist in problem posing activities that lead tocommunity empowerment and transformation.They have a clear understanding of communityproblems and resources and can reachunderserved populations. To enable CHW's tofunction as partners in communityempowerment efforts, CHW training curriculaConceptual Modelsshould provide opportunities for CHW's tolearn the subject matter and apply it to realsituations through problem based learningtechniques. CHW's trained in these techniqueswould then be able to model problem posingfor groups in their communities.In addition,CHW's should be encouraged to facilitateproblem solving groups in their communities toresolve immediate community problems.35 references. (HE9700781)010Relationship Between Community HealthWorkers, the Health Services, and theCommunity.Form:Journal article.Author:Flahault, D.Source: WHO Chronicle.April 1978.needs and priorities, (2) organizing communityaction, (3) designating responsible persons asCHW's, (4) providing support to the CHW's,(5) participating in evaluation of communityhealth services, and (6) linking health actionswith broader community goals. For their part,health services must (1) review and agree onactions taken by the community; (2) providetraining for CHW's and their teachers; (3)supervise and continue the education of healthworkers; (4) provide support, including referralfacilities; and (5) participate in evaluation.Communities and health services must worktogether to plan and implement CHWprograms.In this way, both communities andhealth services will share the responsibility ofensuring the health of the community.8 references. (HE9700087)32(4): 149 153,Abstract: The roles and responsibilities ofcommunity health workers (CHW's) indifferent parts of the world vary according tothe size of the community. In a developed areaCHW's can include the family doctor,pharmacist, dispensary nurse, midwife, orsocial worker; in a rural area of a developingcountry, CHW's can include the medical orveterinary assistant, auxiliary nurse, traditionalbirth attendant, or traditional healer. AllCHW's provide primary health care. Manyparticipate in developmental activitiesconcerning the individual, community, andcountry. CHW's may be defined as modestlytrained male or female health workers livingwithin the community and working in liaisonwith the health services of the country. Theymay be full or part time and paid or volunteerworkers. The village health committee in adevelping country is a local organization thatcan link the village community and healthservices. The roles of such local communityorganizations include(1) identifying healthThe Community Health Advisor/WorkerApplications and MethodsOilAlliances of Professionals andParaprofessionals: Who Owns the Turf?(Editorial Response).Form:Journal article.Authors: Reim, G.; Osborne, O.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(ll):759 760, November 1975.Abstract:This is an editorial response to anarticle by Dr. Oliver Osborne entitled "Issues inAchieving Effective Professional Alliances" anda rebuttal by Dr. Osbourne. The author statesthat while Dr. Osborne admits the importantrole of paraprofessionals, he views their role tobe somewhat in contention with standard healthprofessionals. The author disagrees with Dr.Osborne's apparent claim that paraprofessionalsare often incompetent, and states that evencurrent licensing requirements in many healthfields do not guarantee competency. Hesuggests that paraprofessional workers shouldnot be viewed as in competition withprofessionals, and therefore should not bepushed into getting the same academic degrees.In addition, the author suggestsparaprofessionals that should be paid more thanthey are currently paid.In his response, Dr.Osbourne points out that his paper was notoriginally meant as a research paper, but ratheras a speech discussing the issues that hinder orcould potentially hinder interprofessionalalliances.Dr. Osborne voices his disagreementwith the author's view that professionals shouldbe willing to share their turf withparaprofessionals. He notes that the type oftraining a paraprofessional has received andexperience of working in the field are just asimportant as a degree or certificate.Paraprofessionals, Dr. Osborne states, willnever agree to pursue a different set ofcredentials than that currently sought byprofessionals. (HE9700328)012Bringing Providers to the People: Alaskaand a Florida County Blaze New Trails inNon Physician Care Delivery.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(3):56, 58, 60, February 5, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describesAlaska's Community Health Aide Program,which trains village residents to deliveremergency and primary preventive care tovillagers who live hundreds of miles from thenearest hospital and physician. Volunteers usedby the federal government to dispensemedications during the tuberculosis epidemic inthe 1950's eventually became known ascommunity health aides (CHA's). Today, morethan 400 CHA's, village residents who areselected by members of the community, providehealth care to 45,000 people in Alaska's 171villages. CHA's must have at least a sixth grade reading level and knowledge of math.They participate in a 4 month session ofclassroom instruction and skills practice tolearn basic history taking, physical assessment,and diagnostic skills. Before they beginpracticing independently, they must complete 2to 3 years of clinical observation by physicians.The state contributes $2 million annually intraining funds to the CHA project, but mostfunding comes from the Indian Health Service,a federal agency that delivers and oversees careThe Community Health Advisor/Workerthrough Alaska's 12 Native Health Corporations.The CHA program has brought about a dramaticimprovement in the Alaskan population's healthstatus over the past decade, prompting markeddeclines in cases of hepatitis B, gonorrhea, andrheumatic fever. Health officials in PinellasCounty, Florida, have proposed that the countyfollow Alaska's lead by expanding their ownemergency medical personnel and allowingparamedics to deliver primary health services tothe indigent. Officials have been unable toimplement the program, however, because ofpractice and licensing laws and other barriers.(HE9700078)013Changes in Empowerment:Effects ofParticipation in a Lay Health PromotionProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors: Booker, V.K.; Robinson, J.G.; Kay,B.J.; Najera, L.G.; Stewart, G.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4):452 464, August 1997.they entered the program but before trainingbegan; (2) 4 to 8 months later; and (3) at theend of the second harvest season,approximately1 6 months after the programbegan. The questionnaire included questionsconcerning (1) life experiences, (2) experiencesas a farmworker, (3) likes and dislikes offarmwork, (4) goals, (5) health relatedproblems of farmworkers, (6) actions theywould take in case of an accident or illness, (7)what people could do to stay healthy and thelikelihood of carrying out these behaviors, and(8) expectations about being a CHA. Theresearchers found that most of the advisorsexhibited some increase in personalempowerment during the study period.Findings indicate that there may be additionalbenefits to lay health promotion programsbeyond increasing access to health care andproviding culturally appropriate healtheducation to underserved communities.Changes in the personal empowerment ofparticipants, while difficult to measureprecisely, are important program benefits.1 3 references . (HE970 1117)Abstract: The Camp Health Aide Program is alay health promotion program for migrant andseasonal farmworkers designed to increaseaccess to health care while aiding in leadershipdevelopment and empowerment of individualfarmworkers through training and experience aslay health promoters. Since its inception in1985, more than 250 migrant farmworkers weretrained as camp health aides to provide healtheducation, first aid, referrals for health andsocial services, and translation services for theirfriends, neighbors, and coworkers.In 1992, theauthors examined how participation in theprogram affects the lay health promoters. Theauthors conducted in depth interviews with agroup of community health advisors (CHA's) atthree project sites in Arizona, Florida, and NewJersey at three points in time:(1) shortly after014Community Based Primary Health CareProgram for Integration of Research,Practice, and Education.Form: Book chapter.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Swider, S.M.;Norr, K.Source:In: Curriculum Revolution:Community Building and Activism. NationalLeague for Nursing. New York, NY, NationalLeague for Nursing Press, pp. 77 90, 1991.Abstract: This chapter describes the PrimaryHealth Care in Urban Communitiesdemonstration project in Chicago, Illinois. Theprogram focuses on the development of auniversity setting that responds to the primary10Applications and Methodshealth care concerns of an urban population andthat uses the expertise of the project staff inwomen's health research and education to bettertheir understanding of women's healthproblems and their resolution. Communityresidents were recruited to become communityhealth workers, working in teams withcommunity health nurses. The nurse/advocateteams conduct community assessments andwork in community locations, including aclinic, church basement, and school. Theauthors note that developing a community based nursing practice that integrates thetraditional university functions of research,service, and education is consistent with theWorld Health Organization's 1984 resolution onthe role of universities in contributing to humandevelopment and social justice. (HE9600950)015Community Empowerment in RuralHealth Care.Form:Journal article.Authors: May, K.M.; Mendelson, C;Ferketich, S.Source:Public Health Nursing.12(l):25 30,February 1995.Abstract:Researchers designed a communityhealth nursing project with three interventions:community enpowerment, personalizedpreventive nursing, and organized indigenouscaregiving. The article discusses theintervention that involved communityempowerment to address the health needs ofsmall, rural, underserved, primarily HispanicAmerican communities in Arizona. Thecommunity empowerment interventioninvolved the use of community health nursesand lay health workers to identify healthpriorities and plan and implement healthprograms. During the project's early stages,staff and community members sponsored ahealth fair at a major community fiesta, wherethey provided health education, offeredscreening tests, and collected healthinformation from the 60 attendees. Afterestablishing relationships with communitymembers and informing them about the project,the community health nurse and lay healthworkers planned community empowermentstrategies, including a second health fair, inresponse to concerns about heart disease,diabetes, risk factor identification, and low costblood screening. Three hundred people attendedthe second health fair. Both fairs providedhandouts and discussion offered and occultblood tests and cardiac risk profiles. Thesecond health fair also offered immunizationsand appointments for low cost mammographyscreening. Although attendance at the firsthealth fair was lower than hoped, feedbackindicated participants' satisfaction. Thecommunity health nurse and the lay healthworkers based their evaluation of the secondfair on attendance, community involvement,and degree of satisfaction reported byparticipants. The fair exceeded expectations ofattendance and level of communityinvolvement. Informal