After removal of the paint, all surfaces shall be wet wiped and HEPA vacuumed. b) A visual inspection shall be performed by the contractor lead abatement supervisor to confirm the absence of dust and/or debris and that abated surfaces are clean of residual paint. c) The polyethylene sheeting shall be removed by folding inward so that residual dust and/or debris are within the polyethylene sheeting. d) A second visual inspection shall be performed by the contractor lead abatement supervisor to confirm the absence of dust and/or debris. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 e) As a prerequisite to commencement of clearance air monitoring, a thorough visual inspection by the NYU Langone Project Manager or his/her designee shall verify the absence of residual paint and dust/debris from the work area. Air Monitoring/Sampling a) Daily area air samples shall be collected on representative workers performing the work as well as in the vicinity, but outside the work area containment barriers to assure the action level is not exceeded outside containment. b) Personal samples and area monitoring air samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with NIOSH method 7082 Lead by Flame Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry (AAS) with 24 hour turnaround time by an ELAP certified laboratory (or other validated NIOSH method). The results of area air samples shall be posted daily at the beginning of the work shift. Waste Disposal a) Make arrangements, 1 month in advance of project start date, with NYU Langone Environmental Health and Safety for waste disposal. b) Place LBP chips, debris, and lead dust in double 4 mil or single 6 mil polyethylene bags or equivalent that are air tight and puncture resistant. Pieces of wood or other large items that do not fit into plastic bags shall be wrapped with double 4 mil or single 6 mil plastic sheeting and sealed. c) Place all disposable cleaning materials, such as sponges, mop heads, filters, disposable clothing, and brooms in double 4 mil or single 6 mil plastic bags, or equivalent, and seal. d) Remove plastic sheeting and tape from covered surfaces. Prior to removing the plastic sheeting, the sheeting shall be lightly misted in order to keep dust down and folded inward to form tight small bundles to bag for disposal. All plastic sheeting shall be placed in double 4 mil or single 6 mil thick plastic bags, or equivalent, and shall be sealed. e) Bag and seal vacuum cleaner bags and filters in double 4 mil or single 6 mil thick plastic bags or equivalent. f) Place all contaminated clothing or clothing covers used during abatement and cleanup in plastic bags for disposal prior to leaving equipment room, work site or work area. g) Place solvent residues and residues from strippers in drums made from materials that cannot be dissolved or corroded by chemicals contained in those solvents and strippers. Solvents shall be tested to determine if they are hazardous. Solvents and caustic and acid waste shall not be stored in the same containers. h) Contain and properly dispose of all liquid waste, including lead dust contaminated wash water. Safety Policy 144, Appendix B Sample Specifications for Lead Based Paint (LBP) Abatement Revised: March 4, 2021 i) HEPA vacuum the exterior of all waste containers prior to removing the waste containers from the work site or area and wet wipe the containers to ensure that there is no residual contamination. Containers that have been cleaned shall be moved out of the work site or area into a designated storage area. j) Carefully place the containers into the truck or dumpster used for disposal. k) Ensure that all waste is transported in covered vehicles to an approved landfill. Records Contractor shall maintain accurate and complete records of items listed below for a minimum six years.  Inspections and work reports.  Complete description of the abatement work area and abatement surfaces.  Complete records of any changes in work procedures.  List of all trained and certified workers on the project.  List of PPE used throughout the entire project.  Activities by regulating agencies.  Air monitoring and test results.  Disposal, test results and disposition of waste.