in the Health Promotion Division, Healthand Human Services Department, Berkley, CA. Aminyah Muhammad is a Family Home Visitor, ForLove of Children/Healthy Families America, Washington, DC.The authors wish to acknowledge assistance provided by Robert A. Pollard, MA, of the National Centerfor Disease Control and Prevention and Jill Guernsey de Zapien and Maia Ingram of the University ofArizona Rural Health Office.Address correspondence to Nell Brownstein, Ph.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770Buford Hwy, (K45), Atlanta, GA, 30341 3724, or e mailjnbl@cdc.gov.AbstractThe Community Health Advisor (CHA) outreach model has been used to provide health services andeducation in underserved urban and rural areas of developing countries around the world. In 1996 theAnnie E. Casey Foundation commissioned the National Community Health Advisor Study (NCHAS) toexamine and define four critical areas pertinent to the future of the CHA field in the United States. Thispaper presents NCHAS findings which are relevant to urban and rural CHA roles, competencies, andcareer development issues. The NCHAS conducted a literature review and collected data from estab lished CHA programs and CHAs in the field by conducting a survey of CHAs and CHA supervisors aswell as site visits, interviews, and focus groups. NCHAS identified seven roles for CHAs and specificpersonal qualities, skills, and abilities of effective CHAs. Differences between urban and rural CHAsare discussed. Recommendations are presented for addressing barriers to career advancement and roledefinition for CHAs.IntroductionFor many years in the United States, both public and private health agencies and organizations haveconducted health promotion and disease prevention campaigns.Despite intense efforts, a wide chasmcontinues to exist between the U.S. health care delivery system and members of many vulnerablexxipopulations the system seeks to serve. The passive medical model — in which providers wait at clinicsfor patients to arrive seeking help — is not effective for many reasons — some of them are cultural andmany of them are economic. 12 3 For example, in areas where free immunizations have been offered,immunization rates have nevertheless remained low. Where prenatal care has been available and afford able,it has not been used according to professional standards.Additionally, the recent trend toward amanaged health care system has not only shifted the provision of care for many persons supported byhealth care programs (e.g., Medicaid and Medicare) to managed care providers, but also put the burdenof proof of need on providers and patients. Furthermore, managed care providers recognize that re duced financial barriers will not necessarily ensure that persons eligible for care will access appropriateservices in a timely manner.To overcome barriers to health care, persons who deliver health promotion and disease preventionprograms and health care services must seek responsive and creative solutions. One solution is toinvolve local community members in community outreach that may provide transportation, child care,information, translation to languages other than English, and an attitude toward health that goes beyondtreatment of acute illness.One validated, effective, and inexpensive outreach model is the Community Health Advisor (CHA)model, which is not a new concept.4" 12 The model, which has been used to provide health services andeducation in underserved urban and rural areas of developing countries around the world, is exemplifiedby the Barefoot Doctor program in China. By the 1980s the CHA was generally a member of the targetcommunity who understood the community's health needs and concerns, was respected locally, hadaccess to and influence with community members, and provided a cultural and linguistic bridge be tween community residents and health and human services professionals. 10" 12 As health care systemshave changed, emphasis is given to preventive, primary, and managed care and has increased interest inusing CHAs to deliver community health services (e.g., referrals, education, and social support).Various titles are used to name Community Health Advisors including Lay Health Advisors,Promotoras, Lay Health Workers, Community Health Workers, Community Health Representatives, andPeer Health Educators. 612 These varied titles reflect the diversity of community health program goals,funding resources, and geographical locations but do not adequately describe the fluid roles of CHAs.The number of CHAs in the United States is unknown. The most comprehensive documentation ofCHA programs is found in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Combined HealthInformation Database, which contains profiles of over 200 programs representing more than 12,000CHAs. The largest program, the Indian Health Service's Community Health Representatives (CHR)Program, has 1,500 CHRs.6The growth in CHA programs outpaces CDC's efforts to update of thedatabase, which depends on the voluntary submission of program information.In 1996 the Annie E. Casey Foundation commissioned the National Community Health Advisor Study(NCHAS) to examine and define four critical areas pertinent to the future of the CHA field. These areasare: CHA core roles and competencies, evaluation strategies for CHA programs, career advancement forCHAs and the field as a whole, and CHAs role in the changing health care system. The aim of NCHASwas to address critical policy and program issues so that CHAs can continue to provide services toxxiicommunity members in need. This paper presents NCHAS findings, which are relevant to urban andrural CHA roles, competencies, and career development issues.MethodsThe NCHAS collected data from established CHA programs and CHAs in the field. The research wasguided by the Federal Technical Advisory Committee, members of the American Public HealthAssociation's New Professionals Special Primary Interest Group, NCHAS staff and consultants, andthe NCHAS Advisory Council. The Advisory Council consisted primarily of CHAs, but also includedprogram supervisors and CHA advocates. The Advisory Council assisted in interpreting qualitative data,reviewed the results, developed recommendations, and reviewed the final report. n A Readers Panel,composed of CHA researchers and other professionals and practitioners working in related fields, alsoreviewed our findings and recommendations.Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected by contacting CHA practitioners and researchers toobtain unpublished and published program evaluations, core competency curricula, and other materials.We also reviewed the CHA literature relevant to the study's four core areas.CHA and CHA Supervisor Survey Sample and MethodologyNCHAS staff and consultants developed a survey instrument that probed for information about pro grams and the four core areas of the Study. A random survey was not possible since not all CHAprograms could be identified. Thus we surveyed a nonprobability, convenience sample of CHA andCHA supervisors and consequently inferences can be made about respondents only and not all CHAsand CHA supervisors in the United States. The draft survey was pilot tested among practitioners whowere participants of the 1996 Arizona Statewide Community Health Advisor Training Conference. Toobtain a representative sample of CHAs the final survey was distributed at several conferences andtraining sessions and mailed to more than 80 U.S. programs. Responses were received from 150programs from 29 states. The survey was completed by 281 CHAs () and CHA supervisors (); of the supervisors were also working as CHAs.Site Visits, Interviews, Focus GroupsIn addition, data were collected during 12 program site visits conducted by NCHAS staff and consult ants. During some visits, focus groups with CHAs were supplemented by interviews with supervisorsand other staff and clients.The programs differed by type of health area covered and target populationaddressed.7Focus group and interview data were the primary qualitative data source for several com ponents of the study.Data AnalysisStaff at the University of Arizona's Rural Health Office coded and entered survey data and CDC staffanalyzed the data by using SAS software. Response variables for the open ended questions surveyxxinquestions and individual and focus group interviews were generated by sifting data for common themes(i.e., the constant comparative method of qualitative data analysis developed by Strauss and Corbin).13ResultsLiterature Review and Historical PerspectiveMost of the early U.S. literature about CHAs comes from urban programs, many of which were foundedas a part of the War on Poverty by the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO). Table1 presents anoverview of the terms used, role olayed, and competencies possessed or developed by CHAs in aconvenience sample of U.S. urban programs from the 1960s and 1970s. These programs were quitediverse. For example, in the Denver (1) and Tulsa (4) programs, CHAs had creative and responsibleroles educatingthe community about the health care system and vice versa, and in influencing theongoing design of programs. Advocacy was an explicit role of the CHAs in both programs, and in theDenver project, community organizing was another role. 1415The workers in both the Washington, DC (2), and Los Angeles (3) projects were called "aides" andtheir roles were circumscribed. In Washington, DC, the aides were hired "to alleviate a shortage ofprofessional health educators—rather than because of any unique skills they might possess." 16 Conse quently, aides were required to have a high school diploma and two years' experience in the health field.The goal of the Los Angeles program was to determine whether aides could be as successful as profes sionals in counseling parents about iron deficiency anemia. Entrance requirements and training wereminimal.17The Kaiser Permanente Neighborhood Health Center Project (5) was one of the first CHAprojects sponsored by a health maintenance organization (HMO).It foreshadowed some of the rolesand skills that managed care organizations foresee for CHAs. For example, recruitment of new planmembers and management of services used wereresponsibilities of the CHAs in the project.18Several similar competencies were sought by or developed in all five programs. These competenciesincluded communication skills, a relationship with the community, and knowledge of the communityand the health care system, and the workers were paid.Literature from the mid to late 1980s describes the development of rural CHA programs, many of whichwere strongly influenced by the literature and experience from CHA programs in the developing world.These programs did not require academic competency (e.g., a high school diploma) and emphasizedpersonal qualities, such as natural leadership skills and community respect.In the literature rural layhealth advisors (LHAs) were distinguished from urban outreach workers, who were characterized as"stopgap measures used to respond to a shortage of trained personnel."19Personal qualities sought inthe rural LHAs and promotoras included community membership, inquisitiveness, and a willingness tohelp others by sharing information.11 Being bilingual and biliterate was also viewed as important sincemany of the rural projects targeted Hispanic migrant communities. 20The rural workers provided healtheducation, advocacy, and referrals; conducted case finding; negotiated the health care system; linkedpeople with services; counseled clients; and organized communities.11 ' 20xxivTable1 . Titles, roles and competencies of CHAs in a sample of early U.S.programsProgram Nameand Date*Title UsedRoles andResponsibilitiesQualities and Skills**1) Denver, CO,Maternity andInfant Project(1967)Neighborhoodrepresentatives2) DC Departmentof Health MCHProject (1968)3) LA CountyGeneral HospitalProject (1969)4) Tulsa, OK,ImmunizationProject (1970)Health education aidesIndigenous health aidesIndigenous personnel• community organizing• linkage• mediation• advocacy• home visits• provision of educationalmaterials• motivation to seek care• health educationabout irondeficiency anemia• home visits• health education• motivation• education of health caresystemidentification with target groupcommunication skillsaccepted as neighborhoodmemberpossess work ethicvalue health carebe socially mobilewomen over age 35high school diploma2 yrs. appropriate experienceknowledge of the concept ofpublic healthknowledge of MCH issues andhealth care systemhigh school graduateknowledge about nutrition(importance of iron rich diet)frequent recommendation byexpert informantsability to conduct survey workunderstanding of: the rationaleof the project, the health dept.and clinic systems, andcommunicable diseases andimmunizations5) KaiserPermanenteNeighborhoodHealth CenterProject (1979)Outreach worker,neighborhood healthcoordinator• recruitment• health education• management ofservices used• referral to communityresourcesmeet OEO income criteriaindigenous to communitycommunication skillsunderstanding of the impor tance of preventive servicesunderstanding of health careand health education concepts* Dates refer to publication date of cited article.* Competencies include both recruitment criteria and skills taught in the program.xxvRoles of Community Health AdvisorsIn focus groups with CHAs and interviews with CHA supervisors, we found examples of rural andurban CHAs who play all of the following roles:1) bridging communities and the health and socialservice systems, 2) providing culturally appropriate and accessible health education and information, 3)ensuring that people received the services they need, 4) providing informal counseling and socialsupport, 5) advocating for individual and community needs, 6) providing direct service, and 7) buildingindividual and community capacity. Each of these roles includes several functions, which are delin eated in the NCHAS report. nCommunity organizing occurred in urban and rural CHA programs. At the Codman Square HealthCenter in Boston, for example, the service area was divided geographically, and a community healthworker was assigned to each zone. The workers surveyed to identify, and then worked with communitymembers to resolve important community issues. CHAs at Seattle's People of Color Against AIDSNetwork (POCAAN) used the title community organizer. CHAs' role as community organizers has alsobeen emphasized by academics and developers of rural LHA programs.5In both rural and urban programs some CHAs function both for the community and thehealth caresystem. Community Health Promoters (CHPs) from La Familia Sana, Inc., an independent CHAagency in Hood River, Oregon, regularly facilitated cultural competence workshops for medical andnursing students. CHPs employed by the Midwest Migrant Health Information Office presented similarworkshops for staff at clinics in Texas. Community organizers from POCAAN provided employeetraining in recognizing and resolving homophobia among workers at urban clinics and hospitals.The breadth of the role assigned to CHAs did not depend on whether the program was rural or urban.In some rural areas, culturally competent mental and physical health services are either nonexistent orvery limited.22, 23 Community need and program philosophy determined how broad the role may be.Thus, CHAs (e.g., La Familia Sana, Inc.) facilitated cultural competence workshops as well as taughthealth education classes, advocated for battered women's rightsin the court system, conducted atreatment program for men arrested for domestic violence, and led a support and education group forwomen with diabetes. Urban workers also frequently play a variety of roles, both because of a lack ofservices and because of the level of trust they often develop with clients. Although she was uncertainabout the appropriateness of CHAs providing counseling, the Co Director of Seattle's Birth to ThreeProgram agreed that the role was often unavoidable."I mean, it is a fine line because... they are notcounselors per se," Gengler stated. "On the other hand, [for] the women they work with... trust is suchan issue and it is so difficult to develop... But then they [CHAs] can also be a bridge to those otherprofessionals."The only difference we identified between the responsibilities of rural and urban CHAs involved theamount of provision of clinical service.Rural CHAs (e.g., the Camp Health Aides and promotoras desalud employed by the Midwest Migrant Health Information Office) tended to increase access to care byproviding more clinical services such as first aid and health screenings in homes and migrant laborcamps. Urban CHAs tend to provide clinical services in programs having a specific focus (e.g., bloodpressure measurements in hypertension programs and foot care in diabetes programs).xxviCompetencies of Community Health AdvisorsTo be effective in their work, both rural and urban CHAs need specific personal qualities, abilities, andskills (Tables 2a and 2b). We defined qualities as personal characteristics that can be enhanced but nottaught, and skills as learned abilities.Personal qualities such as friendliness, open mindedness, empa thy, and respect allowed CHAs to build the trusted relationships on which their work depends.Patience,flexibility, and persistence helped them deal with and surmount the barriers to care faced by theirclients.Initiative and reliability enabled them to carry out complex and self directed work. Theireffectiveness as role models depended on their honesty and willingness to grow and change.In our interviews and focus groups, both urban and rural CHAs and CHA supervisors agreed that arelationship to the community is one of the most important qualities of a CHA. An urban CHA fromSeattle stated that, "[as] an outreach worker, you come from your community and people look at you asa model." A rural CHA from Oregon echoed this sentiment, saying that, "[we] need to have lived, tohave experienced what the community has lived."Table 2a. Qualities of effective CHAs reported by respondents to the NCHASsurveyQualityFrequencyFriendly/outgoing/sociable/personable/like people/able to develop rapport82Patient56Open minded/non judgmental55Possessing initiative or motivation/self directed/self starter/independent/hard worker50Caring44Empathetic44Committed/dedicated43Respectful41Honest39Open/eager/able to grow/change/learn31Dependable/responsible/reliable31Compassionate28Flexible/adaptable26Desire to help people and/or community24Persistent23Creative/resourceful23* N = 281. Ten spaces were provided for answers to this question; some respondents provided more than ten.Percentages are not reported because of occasional double counting of respondents.xxvnTable 2b. Skills and abilities of effective CHAs reported by respondents tothe NCHAS surveyQualityFrequencyCommunication skills (general and speakingskills)public speaking skillsconflict resolution skillsability to use appropriate languageinterviewing skillsListening skills/attentivenessKnowledge about health issues and/or the health care systemWritingskillsability tofill out formsability to write reportsability to keep recordsAbility to identify and access resourcesCapacity building skillsleadership skillsempowerment skillsCultural sensitivity/ability to work with diverse classes and culturesBilingual skillsKnowledge about the communityaware of needs, problems, issues, dynamicsOrganizationalskillsability to set goals/prioritiesability to plantime management skillsPreparation/being well trainedAbility to maintain confidentiality/discretionAbility to work in a group/as a team memberClinical skillsability to take vital signsability to recognize signs of illnessability to administer first aidNetworking/coalition building skills19210372635454525048443631302722* N = 281. Ten spaces were provided for answers to this question; some respondents provided more than ten.Percentages are not reported because of occasional double counting of respondents.xxvmHowever, urban and rural CHAs and program staff differed in how they characterized the CHAs'relationship to the community.Staff in rural programs tended to define community membership interms of race or ethnicity and social class, while staff in urban programs defined it in terms of sharedexperience. For example, the Research Advocates (CHAs) in Seattle's Birth to Three Program musthave "something in their background... that allows them to directly relate to clients." But that some thing can be the experience of being a recovering alcoholic, and clients are not assigned to advocates onthe basis of race or ethnicity.Urban programs also tended to emphasize the ability to relate across cultures, fit into the surroundings,and use appropriate language. Many urban CHAs gave examples of situations in which they were ableto work effectively across cultures. Some CHAs stated that clients of other races preferred to work withthem rather than with someone from their own ethnic group. A staff member at San Francisco's Insti tute for Community Health Outreach spoke for many urban program developers:We do not see CHAs as natives with innate skills. We see them as professionals whohave skills that enable them to be culturally competent so that they can work withdiverse communities. For instance, certain sex workers may need a woman outreachworker, or new immigrants may need someone who is a fluent speaker of their language.But gay/lesbian Asian Americans may be more comfortable talking to someone fromoutside their community because the outreach worker may know their family.Our survey revealed a difference between the percentage of urban CHAs () and rural CHAs ()who matched their clients in race or ethnicity.Rural CHAs tended to work in isolated, homogenouscommunities. Most community members in a given program were immigrants from just three or fourMexican states.In most urban areas a multicultural, multiethnic environment made it more likely thatCHAs worked with diverse populations. For example, the community organizers at Seattle's POCAANwork with clients who are American Indians, blacks, Asian or Pacific Islanders, Hispanics, whites, or ofother racial or ethnic backgrounds.According to participants in our interviews and focus groups, both urban and rural CHAs also need a setof skills for (1) communication, (2) interpersonal relations, (3) service coordination, (4) capacity building, (5) advocacy, (6) teaching, and (7) organizational activities. CHAs also needed to understandcommunity needs, the health and social service systems, and health issues. All these skill and knowl edge categories are explained fully in the NCHAS report. 12For several decades, the CHA field has provided an entry point into both the paid and volunteerworkforce for many persons in low income communities who want to serve long term as CHAs or whowant to begin a career path toward other professions. In isolated, rural communities CHA programsoffer a unique opportunity for professional development for both paid and volunteer CHAs. CHAs gainaccess to training and an outlet for community service. Because access to other such opportunities maybe limited many CHAs expressed strong interest in continuing to serve long term.In focus groups, bothpaid and volunteer CHAs in rural communities often said that they saw the CHAs work as professionalwork. Both urban and rural survey respondents also saw the CHA role as professional (). Also,over of both rural and urban paid and volunteer CHAs held this point of view. However, for manyxxixurban CHAs, the position was a step in a career path to another profession. During site visits we notedthat more urban than rural CHAs are pursuing college degrees. However, some urban CHAs want toremain CHAs and sensed that their role must be better recognized and understood so that they can carryout their work more effectively. Both rural and urban CHAs were frustrated with a lack of career devel opment opportunities within CHA programs. Barriers to career advancement that the NCHAS identifiedwere lack of standardized training and lack of credit for training. Survey respondents supported volun tary certification () and standardization of CHA training (); and focus group members werealso supportive of these types of efforts.We found significant differences in the financial status of rural and urban CHAs. A smaller percentageof rural (74 %) than urban () CHAs were paid and the average wage for paid rural CHAs wasmuch lower than that for urban CHAs. Seventy one percent of the rural programs paid less that $10 anhour, but only of the urban did so. No paid urban CHA made less than $5 an hour but of paidrural CHAs did. These salary differences may be related to available resources; local funding was lessfor rural than urban programs. Rural programs obtained1 1 % of their funding from local privatesources, while urban programs received of their funding from these sources. Only of ruralprograms but of urban programs had local public funding.Forty eight percent of the urban CHAprograms and of the rural programs indicated that their programs had managed care contracts.Differences in funding levels may relate to other program factors; the median number of hours workedper week was 15 by CHAs in rural areas and 36.5 in urban areas.Discussion/ImplicationsOur review of the U.S. literature about CHAs reveals some differences between rural and urban CHAprograms. However,the roles played by and competencies sought in CHAs tended to depend on theunderlying philosophy of the program.If, as in the Denver project, workers were seen as communityexperts who could and should be doing program planning, then a specific set of skills and qualities weresought.If, however, workers were seen as aides or extenders then academic skills and the ability tointegrate into the system were emphasized.Our findings present clear implications for the development and management of urban CHA programs.Even in urban areas that have more health and human services availablerelative to rural areas, CHAsplay many roles. Therefore, CHA training needs to be broadly based; encompass physical, mental, andpsychosocial health; and must be responsive to CHAs' changing needs. At the same time the boundariesof CHAs responsibilities need to be clearly articulated.Urban CHAs will no doubt continue to work with clients from many different racial and cultural groups.Therefore, the ability to relate to people of different cultures should be emphasized in the recruitmentand training of urban CHAs.Further, community membership should be defined broadly in urban CHAprograms because experience may contribute more than race or ethnicity to a CHA's credibility andability to relate to clients.CHAs who have an intimate understanding of the communities in which they work are uniquely able toaddress basic determinants of health including food, shelter, employment, education, respect, andxxxdignity. CHA services differ from traditional medical services, which some say "have had little successin addressing these determinants of health."21 A limited role for CHAsprevents them from making thisunique contribution. Rather, CHAs must be integrally involved in program planning and evaluation andthey should be given opportunities to share their knowledge with other members of the health caresystem. CHAs' role in advocacy and community mobilization should be emphasized in urbanprograms.Part of the explanation for why urban CHAs tended to be paid and rural CHAs were not, lies in theways their roles have been defined.Since the 1960s, urban CHA jobs have been seen as entry levelpositions that offer residents a way out of poverty and or a first step up a career ladder. Payment ofsalary was never questioned.In contrast, rural programs were influenced by models from the develop ing world where CHAs were rarely paid.(In some of these programs, however, CHAs receive in kindpayment from neighbors who plant or harvest the CHAs' crops or offer other support.)In many ruralprograms, workers are expected to continue to migrate or do farmwork and share health information inthe course of their daily life. Some concern has been expressed that if CHAs are paid, their connectionto the community will be compromised, and they will be seen as a member of the "system."Both rural and urban programs can establish career paths in order to retain CHAs and support theircareer development. In one path, CHAs become specialists in a given health area (e.g., diabetes, mater nal and child health, cardiovascular disease). Another approach is to create different jobs within pro grams (e.g., CHA supervisor, in service trainer, training coordinator, or training specialists). To ad dress barriers to CHA career advancement, NCHAS recommends adoption of common standards forcore roles and competencies and related curriculum guidelines. 12 NCHAS also recommends voluntarynational certification of CHAs.12 These would aid in establishing the boundaries of CHA roles and inhelping CHAs achieve their personal goals.The primary role of CHAs is usually defined within the medical model as case finding bringing peopleinto the system for screening, education, and treatment; delivering health promotion messages, andproviding support to clients in homes and community settings.Discussion is ongoing among practitio ners as to whether CHAs should also be community change agents, whether their goal is empowerment,and whether they are primarily motivators rather than educators. The consensus among CHAs them selves is that they serve all these functions.Therole of the CHA continues to evolve in response to the communities in which they live. CHAsgenerally remain members of the community they serve but they are selected and supported by thehealth care system according to its needs. The relationship between the community and the contempo rary role of CHAs mirrors the paradigm shift from helping to health care.The uniqueness of NCHAS is its focus on the practitioners — CHAs and their supervisors. Theycontributed as members of a policy participatory research project as focus group participants and surveyrespondents to give meaningful insights into CHA programs and program issues. Additionally, asmembers of the NCHAS Advisory Board, they played an instrumental role in formulating recommenda tions that aim to promote and strengthen the CHA profession and field.12The involvement of CHAslends authenticity to the study of this field. CHAs collaborating on NCHAS have become united. Theyxxxiare newly committed to forming regional coalitions and a national organization. They feel strongly thatit is their time to be recognized, as evidenced by the renewed interest in the CHA field from managedcare organizations; funding agencies; local, state, and federal governmental agencies; and specialinterest groups. As one worker said at the 1996 American Public Health Association Meeting, "Wehave worked tirelessly in what seems at times a thankless job. We have paid our dues and it is now timethat our value is recognized and acknowledged as a viable member of the health care and servicesdelivery team."References1.Council on Scientific Affairs: Hispanic health in the United States. JAMA 265:248 257, 1991.2.Guendelman S: Developing responsivenss to the health needs of Hispanic children and families. SocialWork in Health Care 8:1 14, 1983.3.Trevino FM: Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1982 84: findings on health status andhealth care needs. Am J Public Health (Supplement) 80:6 72, 1990.4.Ramirez A, McAllister A: Mass media campaign: a su salud. Prev. Med 17:608 621, 1988.5.US Department of Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Community healthadvisors: models, research, and practice: selected annotations, United States (Vol I), Atlanta, GA, 1994.6.US Department of Human Services, Centers for Disease Control: Community health advisors: programsin the United States, ( Vol II), Atlanta, GA, 1994.7.Earp JA, Viadro C, Vincus A, et al.: Lay health advisors: a strategy for getting the word out about breastcancer. Health Ed Behav 24(4):432 451, 1997.8.Koch E: Community Health Workers: a leadership briefon preventive health programs. HarrisonInstitute for Public Law at Georgetown University Law Center, Boston, May 1997.9.Pew Health Professions Commission: Community health workers: integral yet often overlooked membersof the health care workforce. San Francisco, 1993.10. Brownstein JN, Cheal N, Ackermann SP, Bassford TL, Campos Outcalt D: Breast and cervical cancerscreening in minority populations: a model for using lay health educators. J Cancer Educ 7(4):321 326, 1992.11. Eng E, Young R: Lay health advisors as community change agents. Fam Community Health 15(l):24 40,April 1992.XXXll12. Rosenthal EL, Wiggens N, Brownstein N, Johnson S, Borbon A, Rael R, Meister J, Guernsey de Zapien,Ingram M: The final report of the National Community Health Advisor Study: weaving the future.University of Arizona, 1998.13. Strauss A, Corbin J: Basics of qualitative research: grounded theory procedures and techniques.Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage, 1990.14. Kent JA, Smith H: Involving the poor in health services through accommodation: theemployment of neighborhood representatives. Public Health Rep 57(6):997 1003, 1967.15. Stewart JC, Hood WR: Using workers from "hard core" areas to increase immunization levels.Public Health Rep 85(2): 177 1 85, 1970.16. Conn RH: Using health education aides in counceling pregnant women. Public Health Rep83(1 1):979 982, 1968.17. Wingert WA, Larson WL, Friedman DB: Indigenous health aides as counselors to parentsabout nutrition. Public Health Rep 84(4):328 332, 1969.18. Colombo TJ, Freeborn DK, Mullooly JP, et al.: The effect of outreach workers'educational efforts on disadvantaged preschool children's use of preventive services.Am J Public Health 69(5):465 468, 1979.19. Harlan C, Eng E, Watkins E: Migrant lay health advisors: a strategy for health promotion. A paperpresented at the Third International Symposium: Issues in Health, Safety and Agriculture.Saskatchewan, Canada, 1992.20. Meister JS, Warrick LH, G de Sapien, et al.: Using lay health workers: case study of acommunity based perinatal intervention.J Community Health 17(1):37 51, 1992.21. Showstack J, Lurie N, Leatherman S, et al.: Health of the public: the private sector challenge. JAMA276(13):1071 1074, 1996.22. Aday LA: Hospital sponsored medical groups: their impact on access to primary care in ruralcommunities. J Community Health 10(3): 180 194, 1985.23. McCarthy M, Jacquart K, Quam L: Family planning, managed care, and rural America.Western J Med 163(3 Suppl):45 49, 1995.XXXlllIntroductionWhat does this publication contain?Community Health Advisors/Workers: Selected Annotations and Programs in the United States, VolumeIII contains bibliographic abstracts of journal articles, reports, literature, resource materials, and pro gram descriptions from the 1970s through the present. These entries were selected to provide informa tion to community health advisors with models, research, practice information, and health promotionand disease prevention programs on subjects such as breast and cervical cancer, heart disease, hyperten sion, nutrition, physical activity, pregnancy and prenatal care, and smoking prevention. Items wereobtained by searching computerized bibliographic databases and by contacting organizations currentlyconducting programs involving the use of community health advisors. Items also are listed in theHealth Promotion and Education Database and the Cancer Prevention and Control Database, subfiles ofthe Combined Health Information Database (CHID).What is CHID?CHID is a computerized bibliographic database of health information and health promotion resourcesdeveloped and managed by several federal agencies. This unique reference is for all health profession als who need to locate health information for themselves or their clients. Current CHID producersinclude the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Office ofDisease Prevention and Health Promotion, and the Health Resources and Services Administration.How can I access the databases?CHID and its subfiles, the Health Promotion and Education Database, the Cancer Prevention andControl Database, the Epilepsy Education and Prevention Activities Database, and the Prenatal Smok ing Cessation Database are available for online searching through the Internet at http://chid.nih.gov.The databases also are available through CDP File, a CD ROM produced by CDC's National Center forChronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.Where can I get more information?Should you need for information on the database, CDP File, or CHID; wish to submit materials forpossible inclusion in the databases; or need additional copies of this publication, contact:Technical Information and Editorial Services BranchCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford Hwy, NE, Mailstop K 13Atlanta, GA 30341 3717(770) 488 5080XXXVQuestions on programmatic issues may be directed to:J. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.Division of Adult and Community HealthNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford