chiller. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the chiller, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Room Pressure Monitors • Room pressure monitors to be provided with BACnet MS/TP communication interface option. viii. Power a. Emergency Power • All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller, etc.) is on emergency power. • If emergency power is not available or perceived as not available, notify the NYULH facility management team that emergency/standby power is not available for controller use and NYULH staff will provide direction. • Any DDC controller that’s powered with Emergency Power shall be connected to a UPS power source. This includes Terminal units for Critical Spaces. b. Terminal Unit Controller Power For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking: • Power to terminal unit controls shall be 120VAC with enclosure mounted 24VAC step down transformer, fuse and disconnect switch. For Fan Coil Units: • Power to fan coil unit controls shall use a line voltage to 24VAC step down transformer, fuse, and disconnect switch. • Control power shall come from the line side of the fan coil unit power (upstream of the disconnect), to prevent communication loss when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 601 2024 ix.vii. Naming a. Point Naming • All point naming conventions shall be reviewed and accepted by the Facilities Management Team prior to being implemented. • Each point name shall consist of the following components: o First two or three letter prefix = building identification.  Controls contractor shall confirm with the Facilities Management Team that the building prefix is unique and the convention does not already exist. o The next two or three letter or numerals = Equipment Identification o The last two or three letters = Device identification o Example: KP_HX1_SWT or KPHX1SWT = Kimmel Pavilion_Heat Exchanger 1_Supply Water Temperature b. Controller Addressing • IP addresses shall be coordinated during the submittal stage of the project. BATC contractor shall discuss with MCIT and Control leads for the specific site address. • All IP addresses are to be provided by MCIT and the Facilities Management Team once the necessary IT infrastructure is in place. o In the event of new building construction this infrastructure will not be in place until the building is near completion. • BACnet device addressing is to be managed by the BATC Contractor and should be within the vendor’s assigned address range as follows: o Alerton:  500 999  100000 199999 o Automated Logic:  300000 399999 o Facilities Management Team and the Senior Controls Specialists are to provide BACnet device addresses for devices outside of the assigned vendor address ranges. o Facilities Management Team and Senior Controls Specialists must be provided with any necessary tools and software to change the BACnet device address on any devices installed. x.viii. Hardware Interlocks a. Safety Circuit Engineering • Safety devices (i.e., low temperature detectors, high pressure switches, low pressure switches, life safety shutdown relay contacts) shall be wired to starters and/or VFD’s such that equipment will stop regardless if operating in hand, automatic, manual, or bypass. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 602 2024 • All safeties serving a variable frequency drive or starter (i.e., low temperature thermostat, fire shutdown contact, pressure switch, end switch, etc.,) must be wired to a terminal strip outside of the VFD/starter, in a standard, labeled enclosure where voltage readings can be taken to facilitate troubleshooting. Each safety should be wired to an individual pair of terminals and labeled as to what safety it is. In addition, all safeties must have individual auxiliary contact wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring. In lieu of a separate enclosure, it is acceptable to utilize the DDC field equipment panel. • All systems requiring interlock wiring shall be hardwired interlocked and shall not rely on the BMS to operate. Interlock wiring shall be run in separate conduits from BMS associated wiring. Examples: o Emergency generator to fuel oil pump interlock, emergency generator damper interlock, etc. o Motorized damper interlock to fan starter. b. Humidifier Valve Lockout • The humidifier valve shall be prevented from opening via a hardwired interlock with a current sensing relay used to monitor fan run status. • The current sensing relay shall be wired to a double pole, double throw relay. One normally open pole shall be wired as an input to the DDC unit for fan run status. The other normally open pole shall be wired in series with the control signal to the humidifier valve such that when the fan is off, the humidifier valve shall be “hardwired” closed. • Upon a fan trip, the humidifier valves shall immediately fail in the closed position. c. High Discharge Pressure Switches and Low Suction Pressure Switches • Pressure differential switches installed in the discharge of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan, which sense discharge pressure, shall stop the fan and transmit an alarm to the operator workstation if the pressure set point of the switch is exceeded. • A separate pressure switch installed in the inlet of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan shall also stop the fan and transmit the alarm if fan suction pressure is below its set point. • Pressure switches shall be automatic reset type. • The fan shutdown shall be operative whether the variable frequency drive Hand Off Inverter Bypass switch is in the Inverter, Bypass or Hand position. • Individual alarms (high and low) will be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 603 2024 d. Low Temperature Switches Low temperature switches (freezestats), one (1) for each cooling coil section, shall follow the following sequence: • Pre time delay timeout: o Any freezestat installed on the inlet of the cooling coil shall initiate a safety shutdown sequence upon sensing a temperature below the low limit setting of 35°F, locally adjustable at each freezestat. o Each normally closed freezestat shall have a unique input and identifier. o Any freezestat trip shall activate a time delay relay. o Upon activation of the freezestat switch status input, the following shall occur (before time delay timeout):  The unique freezestat switch status input will be ON.  The time delay relay will initiate the elapsed time countdown  A pre alarm condition indicator shall activate at the BMS graphics containing the unique freezestat identifier  Preheat low limit setpoint will raise 10°F (adjustable)  CHW control valve will open to at least (if it isn’t already greater than open) • Post time delay timeout: o Upon activation of any freezestat switch status input for a continuous elapsed time of 30 seconds via the adjustable time delay relay, the following shall occur:  The supply fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The return fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The chilled water valve shall open to  The preheat valves shall control to a preheat discharge temperature setpoint of 95°F (adjustable)  A five star alarm must be generated each time a freezestat time delay relay activates.  Each time delay relay shall have an independent five star alarm.  After the freezestat switch status turns off, the five star critical alarm can be manually set to OFF via the BMS. Once the alarm is off and the unit can be manually restarted via the BMS.  The outside air intake damper(s) shall close  The supply fan discharge damper(s) shall close e. Leak Detection • On trigger of a leak alarm, associated cooling isolation and control valves shall shut while associated fans are allowed to operate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 604 2024 f.b. Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. xi.ix. HMI/Graphics General Requirements: • The project team shall reach out to the site specific NYULH Controls Manager for typical BMS graphics. • Dynamic graphics shall be created for each system interfaced with the building management system. Systems include, but are not limited to, air handling units, air conditioning units, heating and ventilation units, exhaust fans, pumps, chillers, heat exchangers, plumbing systems, electrical systems, etc. • Summary graphics shall be created for systems as described herein. Summary graphics shall be updated, on a per project basis, as modifications are made to each respective system. The summary graphics are intended to be live documents that continue to evolve as various systems are added, removed and/or modified. • Where air handling or water systems serve areas other than Mechanical Equipment Rooms, provide dynamic color floor plan displays indicating the area served. The displays shall include all physical and virtual points associated with the respective system. • The graphical interface shall allow users to access system schematics, floor plans, summary graphics, “as built” documentation, operation and maintenance manuals via a hierarchal graphical penetration scheme and menu selection. • Colors shall be used to indicate the status of points (e.g., RED = alarm, GREEN = normal) and these colors shall change as the status of the equipment changes. Provide a software program that shall notify the operator that a point has been placed in operator override. Notification shall be identified on the respective system graphic. • Dynamic temperature values, humidity values, flow values and status indication shall automatically update to represent current conditions without operator intervention and without predefined screen refresh rates. • All values displayed on the graphics shall include appropriate engineering units. • Values/icons for points which are placed in an override or locked state by an operator command shall clearly be identified and displayed in a manner that the operator can identify these locked points. • Performance overviews shall be provided for each building totaling its actual energy usage with a detailed comparison to its expected usage, on a month by month basis, as well as an annual basis. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 605 2024 Sitewide Main Page shall contain the following: • Site map with links to each individual building. • Link to each campus summary graphic. • Common Critical Data: o Outdoor air temperature o Outdoor air humidity o Outdoor air CO2 o Outdoor air enthalpy o Outdoor air dewpoint. Individual Building Main Page: • Graphics should be organized by building and floor with links to all the equipment that serves that floor on the graphics link. • Building Operator Links (the following are examples from the NYULH Main Campus): o Tisch Hospital  Ancillary  Millhauser o Alumni Hall o Medical Science Building Berg o Coles Student Laboratory o Schwartz Lecture Hall o Skirball Institute o Smilow Research Center o Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) o 660 First Avenue o Energy Building o Greenberg Hall o Kimmel Pavilion o Science Building • Each building shall be presented with an individual main page. The main page shall consist of the following: o Link to the sitewide main page o Link to each respective floor plan of the building o Link to building summary graphics for each of the following systems:  Condenser water system and all connected equipment (i.e., packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Chilled water system and all connected equipment (i.e., air handling units, packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Air handling unit relevant data such as run status, supply temperature, static pressure, and active alarm (tabular format). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 606 2024  Supply, return and exhaust duct distribution and all connected equipment (single line format).  VAV box relevant data such as temperature set point, actual temperature and list of rooms served. (Tabular Format).  Electrical distribution system, inclusive of all electrical status, alarm and metering points (single line format).  Environmental boxes, refrigerators and freezers (tabular format).  Instrument air systems pressure readings, interconnections, risers, branch piping, isolation valves.  Communication network indicating all controllers, wiring configurations, controller addresses, controller location. Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, VAV summary graphic should contain the AHU and reheat water system links. o Links to each system group. Groups are defined as follows:  Air handling units  Air conditioning units  Exhaust fans  Chilled water system  Condenser water system  Hot water system  Secondary water systems  Process cooling systems  Domestic water  Medical air systems  Operating Rooms  Environmental boxes  Generators  UPS systems  Automatic transfer systems  Double ended substations o Individual links to each piece of equipment and/or system within each group. All graphics must show the name of the system and its service area. All systems that serve the system illustrated on the graphic, must be identified and linked to. For example, if a fan system provides the outside air delivered to a fan coil unit, the fan system tag must be identified at the outdoor air intake on the graphic. If a system serves VAV boxes, this must be indicated on the system graphic with a link to the VAV boxes provided. o Refer to the Reference Section for sample graphic indicating a typical floor plan. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 607 2024 Location Summary Graphics: • Graphics shall include the following: o Steam system (displayed in a single line format) o Chilled water system (displayed in a single line format) o Electric distribution systems (displayed in a single line format) o Pneumatic air systems (displayed in a single line format) o Domestic water system single line riser diagram showing domestic water meter POE, pumping system, water tower, domestic hot water systems and other water users. o Medical air system per building o Operating Rooms (tabular format) o Energy metering (tabular format) o Air handlers/exhaust fans by building and floor location o Reheat/perimeter/secondary water by system by building and floor location (displayed in a "single line" format) o Generators by building (tabular format) o FCU's by building and floor (tabular format) o Walk in boxes, environmental boxes, hot rooms (tabular format) o ATS (tabular format) o UPS (tabular format) o Sump/ejector pumps (tabular format) o Critical Labs (Berg/Smilow ABSL 3 temps, pressures) o Refrigeration cooling towers (displayed in a "single line" format) o Control air plants (displayed in a "single line" format) o Steam PRV’s and perimeter steam control valves (tabular format) o Sump/ejector/condensate pump (tabular format) o Animal holding rooms (tabular format) o Fire systems, preactions (tabular format) o Decontamination showers (tabular format) o Room pressure monitoring (tabular format) o Domestic water, water heaters, booster pumps, house tanks (tabular format) o Communication network indicating workstations, servers, network switches and primary controllers with respective locations and wiring configurations.  Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, chilled water system summary graphic should contain links to each chilled water system. • Campus summary graphics shall be a compiled building system overviews. The campus single lines will be the summation of the building single line drawings. All systems should be grouped together with similar systems in a building. If there are no other similar systems in the building a new overview shall be started for that system with LED alarm bringing you to that page in the event of a critical alarm. NO GRAPHICS SHALL BE GROUPED OR LABELED “miscellaneous”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 608 2024 • Summary graphics shall be updated as the systems they represent are modified. Floor Plans: • Floor plans shall display air and piping distribution systems in single line format. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment located on the floor (i.e., exhaust fans, air conditioning units, VAV boxes, environmental boxes, etc.) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment that is not located on the floor, but serves the floor (i.e., air handling units, exhaust fans and water systems) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall show dynamic variable monitoring space conditions (i.e., temperature, humidity, CO2, room pressures, etc.) in actual field installed location of sensing device. • Floor plans to indicate latest room numbers. Equipment: • Each individual equipment graphic shall include the following links: o Sitewide main page o Individual building main page o Each floor served by the equipment o Summary graphic associated with the system • For example: Air handling unit graphic is to include links to the following summary graphics: o Chilled water system o Steam or hot water system o VAV box summary system o Network communications • At the top of each graphic, indicate the equipment tag, location and what it serves (e.g., AHU TH 2 1, 2nd Floor MER, Floors 3 7) • Individual equipment graphics shall indicate all input/outputs points associated with the system. Points shall be shown in the appropriate locations. • Set point increments shall be defaulted as follows. Any modifications must be approved by the Facility Management Team. o Temperature: 1°F o Humidity: RH o Static Pressure: 0.1 in w.c. o Airflow: 100 cfm o Water flow: 50 gpm o Water differential pressure: 2 psig • Individual equipment graphics shall include links to graphic page of all points monitored via third party equipment interface. For example, provide link for display page of all data points associated with variable frequency drive. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 609 2024 • Graphics shall clearly indicate the fail state positions for all BMS controlled devices. xii.x. Reports General Requirements: • Reports shall be generated on demand or via a predefined schedule. Predefined Reports: • The following predefined reports shall be created and updated as modifications are made to the respective equipment and/or facility: o Controller Online/Offline Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, online/offline status.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Controller Reboot Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, quantity of reboots and time of occurrence.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Equipment Uptime (per Building):  Report to include equipment tag, location, required uptime, actual uptime.  Report generated automatically on a monthly basis. o Operating Room Humidity:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location, humidity level over 24 hour period (highest, average, lowest).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Operating Room Pressurization:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location and pressurization level over 24 hour period (positive, neutral, negative).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Domestic Hot Water Temperature (per Building):  Report to include: Common supply water temperature Monthly hours Hours in Compliance (98 117.5°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (117.5 120°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (120 125°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (125 200°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (90 98°F) Identified by total hours and percentage NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 610 2024 Out of Compliance hours (80 90°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (35 80°F) Identified by total hours and percentage  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period o Room Pressurization (per Building Not Including Operating Rooms):  Report to include room tag, location, required pressurization mode, actual pressurization mode.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperature (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water temperature transmitter tag, location, actual temperature (highest, average and lowest). Note: Temperature data referenced in this report is only specific to each chiller plant’s common chilled water supply and return temperature.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Differential Pressure (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water differential pressure transmitter tag, location, actual pressure (highest, average and lowest). Note: Differential pressure data referenced in this report is only specific to each transmitter located in the campus chilled water loop.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. I. References i. Reference Standards Products in this subsection shall be built, tested, and installed in compliance with the specified quality assurance standards; latest versions, unless noted otherwise. • Electrical Standards: Provide electrical products that have been tested, listed and labeled by UL and comply with NEMA standards as well as NFPA 70 (National Electric Code). • NEMA Compliance: Comply with NEMA standards pertaining to components and devices for electrical control systems. • NFPA Compliance: Comply with NFPA 90A “Standard for the Installation of Air Conditioning and Ventilating Systems” where applicable to controls and control sequence. • Install all BMS components, panels, and wiring in compliance with NEC and all local electrical codes. • DDC devices shall use the latest version of ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 135 “BACnet Building Automation and Control Networking Protocol” standard for communications and have passed BTL certification as available. • UL Compliance: DDC Controllers shall comply with UL916 Standard for Energy Management Equipment. DDC Controllers associated with equipment utilized in a smoke control application shall also comply with UUKL UL 864 “Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 611 2024 • National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), NIST IR 6392 Annex B: Profiles of Standard BACnet Devices. • Electronics Industries Association(EIA) o EIA 232: Interface between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Circuit Terminating Equipment employing serial binary data interchange o EIA 485: Standard for Electrical Characteristics of Generator and Receivers for Use in Balanced Digital Multi Point System ii. VAV Balancing Procedure Definitions: • Supply or Exhaust Velocity Pressure = Analog Input into Controller from Field • K Factor = Value from Box Manufacturer’s Design Table • Calibration Factor = Number calculated during balancing Calculating CFM from Velocity Pressure Equation: • CFM = sqrt(Velocity Pressure) x K Factor x Calibration Factor Balancing Procedure • Initial Parameters: o Calibration Factor to 1.00 o Set K Factor according to Box Manufacturer based off Box Size: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 612 2024 Testing Box at Maximum & Minimum Design CFM: • Set Box to Maximum Design CFM • Balancer will obtain a CFM hood reading • BMS Vendor will calculate new Calibration by using this equation o New Calibration Factor = (Balancer CFM Reading)/(BMS CFM Reading) • BMS Vendor will enter new calibration factor in replace of the initialized calibration factor • Balancer final CFM hood reading shall not exceed of BMS final CFM reading at maximum design setpoint • Set Box to Minimum Design CFM • Balancer will obtain a CFM hood reading • Balancer final CFM hood reading shall not exceed of BMS final CFM reading at minimum design setpoint iii.i. Network Architecture a. BMS Network Architecture shall be reviewed by RED+F and MCIT b. Wherever possible, network architecture shall employ a Zone and Conduit strategy as per IASC99 ISA/ IEC 62443 series of standards NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 613 2024 iv. Typical Floor Plan Sample BMS Graphics NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 614 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 615 2024 v.ii. BMS IT Architecture and Remote Access Requirements • Architecture and remote access requirements shall be coordinated during the submittal stage of the project. BATC contractor shall discuss with MCIT and Control leads for the specific site address. • The BMS vendor shall install a dedicated BMS server at each site (per building or per campus). The server shall be placed in the BDF. If the BDF is not available, the IDF may be used. The BMS Network shall have one point of connection to the MCIT network. o BMS vendor to provide the smallest form factor server possible. o MCIT PM will confirm BDF or IDF availability, power availability and be responsible for ordering any shelving or accessories required to mount the server.  Emergency Power with UPS is preferable. If UPS power is already available in the BDF, this shall be used.  If UPS power is not available, a stand alone UPS shall be installed. Standard model: APC SUA500PDRI H. UPS is available in both rack mounted and standalone models. • The server shall be connected to a managed switch (acceptable models listed) • MCIT to provide a patch cable from the BMS Managed Switch to the MCIT network • The MCIT PM shall work with IT Security and Network Security to specify, purchase and install the firewall (if not already present at the site). • The BMS contractor is responsible for all low voltage cabling to the BMS managed switch. MCIT can assist with pathways and routing. • The BMS network shall use a private class C IP network: 192.168.xxx.xxx/16 • If this IP scheme cannot be used, review with MCIT Joint Architecture and Engineering Review is required • The BMS contractor must provide to the project team (both the MCIT and RED+F PMs) a network architecture single line diagram showing the following information: o For each device, identify the following  Device Name  Device type (make, model)  Physical Location  IP address if available  MAC address (can be added later if device has not yet been ordered) o Between devices, identify the communication protocols and if applicable, wire type o Identify direction of traffic flow o Identify ports used to communicate externally o Identify means of external data storage • The MCIT PM will create a ticket in HEAT to enable RDP, HTTPS and SSH on the firewall NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 616 2024 • All vendors requiring access to the BMS must have an NYULH KID. o KID requests are placed by the RED+F sponsor: The sponsor is either the Facilities Manager, Operations Manager or Tenant Coordinator for the site.  Do not request an NYULH email account/address o After the KID is received, the Sponsor must create subsequent new requests for CyberArk and Advanced Access VPN o Once the Contractor has received their KID and the resultant access to the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org), they must register for the DUO two factor authentication. Upon login to InsideHealth, they will be prompted with instructions to register.  Do not download DUO from the App Store / Google Play and install directly on your device. This will not work. It must be downloaded from the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org). • The BMS should have an HTML5 Web Application. This will be the primary means of accessing the BMS for both NYULH and vendor staff. o The local BMS IP shall be access from the NYULH network via a NAT IP address. o The MCIT PM will request that the BMS website IP be NAT’ed to an NYULH 10. IP address o From on site at NYULH, the BMS web app can be accessed from any device o For remote access, F5 BIG IP edge client shall be used, and can be downloaded from the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org). • For BMS vendors requiring remote access to the BMS server, CyberArk must be used o MCIT PM will place a ticket to NAT the server IP to a local NYULH IP o Once CyberArk access is approved (see above), the vendor will need to add the 10. IP address of the server to their Cyberark profile.  Cyberark supports both Windows and Linux environments o Remote Desktop via Cyberark is the only approved method of remote access. Other products (such as Teamviewer, VNC, LogmeIn) are not permitted. o BMS vendor is responsible for keeping anti virus and patches up to date on all vendor managed equipment. • The BMS vendor shall configure email alarms via NYULH’s smtp relay o smtp.nyumc.org (10.185.64.51) Port 25 o From: NYUOffsites@nyulangone.org o To: <email addresses/distribution list address> o Note: Distribution lists can be created by MCIT by opening a ticket o No username/password required o Authentication: None o Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, etc. email relays are not permitted. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 617 2024 vi. Non Standard CIOT System Remote Access Requests In some cases, should the non standard procedure for configuring remote access to an independent CIOT be available, the following guidelines shall be followed: • The OT vendor or Design Engineer shall prepare a network architecture diagram. The diagram must include the following: o A single line drawing of all networked devices o For each device, identify the following  Device Name  Device type (make, model)  Physical Location  IP address if available  MAC address (can be added later if device has not yet been ordered) • Between devices, identify the communication protocols and if applicable, wire type o Identify direction of traffic flow o Identify ports used to communicate externally o Identify means of external data storage • The Network Diagram shall be reviewed by The Project Manager, BMS Standards Committee, The Senior Manager, RED+F Information Strategy, and the Facility Manager • Once approved by the Senior Manager, Information Strategy, if external connectivity (to the internet or to the MCIT network), a review must be completed by MCIT Security. This can be requested through MCIT Heat Ticket System • Upon approval from MCIT Security, review is required by MCIT Network Security to determine IP address and firewall requirements. • In cases where a web server is not available, The OT vendor can provide an operator workstation or laptop. The BMS vendor will be responsible for patching, anti virus and updates in accordance with NYULH MCIT standards. Any exceptions to anti virus policy must be reviewed and approved by MCIT Security. END OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 621 2024 CLOSE OUT PACKAGE At the end of a project, close out packages are to be completed and submitted to RED+F per the Substantial Completion and Project Closeout Checklists shown below. The goal is to have all projects closed 120 days after the first user has moved in. The A/E Team shall request the latest version of these checklists from the RED+F PM at time of close out. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 622 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 623 2024 PHOTOGRAPHY The RED+F Project Manager shall engage a professional photographer pre approved by the Design Studio to photograph the project after construction is complete and before move in. The cost of this shall be included in the Project Budget. A professional photographer may also be engaged by the Architect to photograph the project. The Architect shall request pre approval from NYU Langone Health of the photographer they wish to use. The RED+F PM and GC/CM shall allocate sufficient time in the schedule to professionally photograph the project. The time shall be clearly shown on the project schedule. The length of time needed will be based on the size and scope of the project. At a minimum two days will be allocated for spaces up to 50,000 GSF. One more day shall be allocated for each additional 50,000 GSF. Final photography must be scheduled as follows:  After construction is complete and no contractors are on the premises  After final cleaning has occurred  Before any move in preparation has begun All the major public spaces and architecturally important components shall be photographed sufficiently to show the scope of the project. Final high resolution files shall be provided to the Design Studio at RED+F via the RED+F PM without charge to NYU Langone. Below are a few examples: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 624 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 625 2024 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS RED+F is continually seeking to improve the Design and Construction process of the built environment and has established a Built Environment Improvement Cycle. The cycle, which consists of Design Construction Occupancy Evaluation and back to Design, allows for continual improvement of the built environment by establishing a Post Occupancy Evaluation phase. The Post Occupancy Evaluation phase occurs after the users have moved in and utilized the space for a certain period of time, typically about a year. The intent of the Post Occupancy Evaluation is to provide feedback on the design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The RED+F Design Studio performs the Post Occupancy Evaluation. It is important the same group perform the evaluation in order to maintain a consistent basis of analysis between projects. Results of Post Occupancy Evaluations are then used to inform Project Teams and update the Design Guidelines. For example, materials and furniture that are not holding up well are removed from the Design Guidelines. Materials and furniture that are not part of the Design Guidelines but were approved for a particular project and have been holding up well are considered for inclusion in the Design Guidelines. This process reduces maintenance costs and streamlines the Design process. Built Environment Improvement Cycle DesignConstructionOccupancyEvaluationNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 626 2024 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATION FORM The intent of the Design Post Occupancy Evaluation Form is to provide feedback on the overall design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The information will be used to continually update the Design Guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 627 2024 PROJECT NAME: PROJECT ADDRESS: NAME OF ARCHITECT: DATE OF OCCUPANCY: DATE