conversations included the parent of a pediatric heart transplant patient. We spoke with five members of a racial and/or ethnic minority groups, two immigrants/refugees, two individuals identifying as LGBTQ+, two individuals over 65 years old, three people living with a disability, two people living in a rural area, four low income individuals, and four Medicaid recipients. The stakeholders most impacted by the project are transplant patients experiencing various health conditions pre and post transplant that make traveling to multiple locations for appointments challenging, low income people, people with physical disabilities and health limitations, and people with Limited English Proficiency No groups expressed concern about the project. Some stakeholders asked questions about if the consolidating of services would result in longer wait times to be seen, if it would involve being in a more crowded waiting room, and if quality of any of the services would be affected. 11. How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? Based on our engagement, we conclude that the proposed consolidation of services to have overwhelmingly beneficial impacts on transplant patients and their care partners. Impact on transplant patients with physical disabilities and complex health conditions Nearly all transplant patients described how the proposed consolidation of services would ease the physical challenges they faced in going to multiple locations to receive transplant related services. Specifically, patients highlighted how health conditions like brain fog, fatigue, pain, wheelchair use, oxygen tanks, and weakness make it difficult for them to go to multiple floors and/or buildings. A double transplant recipient who received a heart and kidney transplant at the Transplant Institute described that she had to go to one building for the heart team and then another building a couple of blocks away to see the kidney team, which was particularly strenuous for her while she was on dialysis. A heart transplant patient who faced complications that led to amputations on Page 17 of 26 her foot described how consolidating services would address the physical challenge of visiting multiple locations: “Everybody would be there right. I wouldn't have to go all over, especially for me…I am amputated, I have no toes on either foot, so walking is, I'm getting better at it, but it's still challenging. So it's a lot of walking, you know, from building to building.” Heart transplant patient, living with disability As one community leader noted, “it takes a lot of out of patients to hop around to different places” and the idea of consolidating to one location was seen as a way to lessen the sheer exhaustion many patients experience as they navigate their appointments leading up to and following their transplant. Another patient shared how the multiple locations were difficult to navigate while being in a wheelchair and having an oxygen tank. After doing one day of appointments, the patient described the experience of going to multiple locations as a nightmare: “When I was in the wheelchair the doctor said to me if it's hard for you to come and go we can admit to you. And I preferred to be admitted because I know that this is going to be a nightmare for me. I did it [appointments in various places] one day. One day I did it, and it was a nightmare, and that's where I spoke to the doctor, and I said to her, ‘I can't. I cannot do that for the whole week. And it's gonna take more than a week because it's not done in the hospital, so it's going to be in different places.’ And I said to her, ‘I don't think I can make it with my oxygen and wheelchair. I don't think I can make it.’” Double lung transplant patient, immigrant, low income, living with disability To mitigate the issues with moving to multiple locations for appointments, the doctor decided to admit the patient to the hospital to get all tests done in one location. The patient explained that the Transplant Institutes’ intended consolidation would give everyone the opportunity to have a healthcare experience like being admitted to a hospital and getting all services in one place. Furthermore, several individuals spoke about the potential that having all services in one location offers for lifting the emotional weight of the experience for transplant patients and their care partners. It was described as an opportunity to give individuals “peace of mind” knowing that managing multiple locations was one less thing they had to worry about. The mother of a pediatric heart transplant patient described it as follows: “[My daughter] who was young, she was just 10 years, and sometimes it was rainy, it was snowing. When she was waiting for the transplant, she was with a life vest, with a pic line, with the medicine that made her heart work until they donated, and it was so hard for me to walk these streets with a kid in this weather…you know with the stress to go to New York [from NJ] plus all this stuff is a combination of like a parents Page 18 of 26 and family…things that we deal with.” Caregiver, racial and ethnic minority, immigrant, Medicaid insured A community leader echoed this sentiment saying: “I'm thinking of some of the pediatric patients, parents can just go to one location or caregivers can go to one location, and the providers come to them. I think that you know just the emotional weight will be lifted from having to circle around to many different places. So you know, there's that emotional piece.” Community leader Importantly, several transplant patients and community leaders also noted that consolidating services to one location would reduce potential exposure to pathogens for this vulnerable group. “Reducing having to hop around from building to building. I also think it's, healthwise, it's safer because you don't have exposure to as many potentially airborne pathogens, which is very important for patients who have compromised immune systems.” Community leader Community members highlighted two other important benefits of consolidating services related to clinical care. A community leader recognized that having all services in one location could improve follow up appointment adherence by eliminating the barrier of having to visit multiple locations on multiple days to receive all aspects of a patients care. This was seen as having the potential to improve health outcomes by way of facilitating the patient getting to all follow up appointments the care team identified they needed for optimal care and follow up. A patient highlighted the benefit that consolidated services could offer for continuity of care by making it easier to see the same clinical team in one place: “I feel comfortable with the providers who have taken care of me, and there's like a lot of them. But sometimes, like, when you go to the clinic, it's like, OK, there's only these 2 people here. The other people are on the other side, 3 buildings away, so we can't see them today. And it's like, but I would like to see them because they know me, and following up with that level of comfort with someone who's new, knew my story from the minute I arrived to this point. Those are the people that I wanna follow up with, you know.” Heart transplant patient, living with disability Impact on low income people and Medicaid insured patients Another key theme among community members was the financial burden of transportation, specifically related to parking and loss of income when multiple appointments led to missing full days of work. Participants described the exorbitant parking fees they incurred when attending their appointments at the Transplant Institute. One patient described the expense she faced when having to move her car between appointments and pay a second time for parking within the same day when visiting two Page 19 of 26 different locations. A community leader highlighted the impact traveling to multiple locations can have on low income patients who may lose a day of work as a result of such lengthy days attending appointments, “In asking folks who may be on the lower end of the income spectrum to go to multiple locations, you know, if back to work, that means losing money, you know, losing out on a day’s worth of work.” One of the hospital’s social worker explained how Medicaid transport will only pick up and drop off at one location, creating a difficult situation of appointments in multiple buildings: “So for social work, one of the big issues that we see is that when we're talking about either low income patients who use Medicaid for their transportation to get to and from appointments or patients who have any kind of disability or functionally not independent, getting to multiple sites in the same day for appointments. [It] becomes really taxing with Medicaid, well, they need to pick you up and drop you off at the same place, so that logistically becomes an issue. People who are functionally unable to get to multiple buildings often come to us with hardship especially if they don't have somebody to like wheel them in a wheelchair to and from different buildings in the city.” The consolidation of services would mitigate this issue since only one stop would be needed to attend appointments. Impact on People with Limited English Proficiency Several community members identified that consolidating services into one location would make it less cumbersome to ensure interpretation needs are met at each appointment. As one community leader pointed out, for non English speakers, having to see four different specialists in four different locations and coordinating an interpreter for support at each is cumbersome, but if all services are in one place, only one interpreter would be needed on one day, which is less coordination for the facility. This also means the patient would not be waiting on care because an interpreter has not yet arrived to the appointment. A Peruvian immigrant who identified that she understands English but shared that she met several people going through the transplant process who did not speak or understand English described how hard it is for families of patients with a language barrier to move from one room to another or one building to another for multiple appointments. She felt that consolidating services into one place would “help a lot of families to feel more comfortable and confident in the place.” A social worker similarly discussed the difficulties trying to navigate multiple locations around the city for non English speakers: “And then with the language piece like, if you're not either used to navigating the city, or you don't speak English as a first language, just logistically, I mean, it's Page 20 of 26 hard enough for a lot of us to figure out where we're going. So having to navigate that, I think, becomes pretty daunting.” Social worker Other community members spoke to how consolidating services would help ease the challenge of navigating New York City for those not familiar with the city, those with language barriers, and those who have just arrived in the US. “It’s a bit confusing because you have to go to a bunch of different places. If you had one location where everything was, it would help. Once I know the location, I won’t forget but each time I have to make sure I have the right address and have it correctly plugged into Google maps, not knowing the streets of Manhattan. People not from the US would have an extra challenge going through this gauntlet of different offices.” Living donor A community leader noted that following their transplant some patients come into Manhattan from out of state or Upstate New York and don't “have the local knowledge of what it means to travel in New York City. How much it costs to do so if you don't have your own transportation.” There was no indication that there would be any additional burden on a particular group impacted by this project. 12. Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. The only medically underserved group we were unable to reach is members of the uninsured population. There were no uninsured individuals available for engagement in this portion of the assessment. According to the Transplant Institute, this is due to their efforts around getting their patients insured. The Transplant Institute focuses on getting their patients insured both for the transplant procedure itself and for the lifelong care and immunosuppression medications they will require. They partner with New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) to assist undocumented patients with identifying pathways to citizenship and insurance. They also have a team of transplant financial counselors that work one on one with patients on securing not only insurance but the right plan to meet their medical needs. STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a. People of limited English speaking ability b. People with speech, hearing, or visual impairments Page 21 of 26 c. If the Applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? Information provided by the Applicant indicates that they will communicate its services and care options to the community by utilizing a standard, multi pronged advertising/communication plan. For individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant will translate relevant materials such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage. There will be signage at the current locations in English and Spanish announcing the move, a letter in English and Spanish will be sent to patients, and clinic staff will also be communicating the details of this move at patient appointments well before it takes effect. Current clinic staff will also alert patients as they call for appointment and when they are at their appointments in the current clinic prior to the move. The Applicant advertising/communication plan will also include outreach to specific publications that target individuals who speak a language other than English. The website will be updated with messaging about the move, and there will be social media posts as well. (Note that these are mainly in English.) Regarding individuals who have speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant uses digital best practices for accessibility that are informed by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2, the industry standard to ensure users with disabilities (such as vision, cognitive/learning, and/or motor disabilities) can access content equitably. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Stakeholders had the following specific suggestions for how to better meet their needs as they considered the impact of consolidating transplant services: • Have labs done at the same centralized location. Some patients explained that if blood lab work is not get reported in time for their appointments, and the doctor is unable to make informed plans or decision making without the report. Either through centralizing the labs or some other mechanism, the reports could get to the doctors in time for the scheduled appointment. • Ensure rooms are large enough to accommodate wheelchairs. One patient reported they had to leave their wheelchair outside the doctor’s office as it could not fit through the door. The proposed new space should have doorways large enough for wheelchairs to pass through the space. As stated, the alterations of the new single location will adhere to the Accessibility Chapter (Chapter 11) of the New York City Building Code. Per Chapter 11; sites, buildings, structures, facilities, elements, and spaces shall be designed and constructed to be Page 22 of 26 accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with ICC A117.1 and the New York City Building Code. • Provide a bigger waiting room to ensure social distancing is feasible. The waiting room should be large enough that immunocompromised people can safely social distance and not used as a multi purpose space (e.g., education classes, etc.), which does not easily allow for social distancing. • Provide assistance with parking at the one location where all services will be received. 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The diverse group of individuals who participated in the interviews and community conversation as part of the meaningful engagement portion of this assessment would be an excellent group to return to for future inputs. Ideally patients should be contacted approximately 6 9 months after the consolidation of services takes place. This would allow them to have received services for their follow up visits under the new model on several occasions. They could then speak to the impact of the project and be consulted on any potential improvements. We propose interviews, so you can get nuanced information about the impact and potential improvements. We also would propose a patient survey at the same time interval to capture perspectives about the relocation and consolidation across the Transplant Institute’s patients. 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? The project addresses several systemic barriers to equitable access to services and care that were identified by stakeholders during our meaningful engagement work for this assessment. Overall, consolidating services to one location eases mobility issues experienced by older people, people with disabilities, and/or people with limiting health conditions (e.g., wheelchair use, fatigue, pain, brain fog, oxygen tanks, etc.). Moreover, it limits issues of parking or transportation for low income and Medicaid insured patients. The proposed consolidation eases the burdens of people with Limited English Proficiency needing multiple translators across multiple appointments instead of one translator or having to navigate New York City. Lastly, by consolidating services, it provides a more calming experience for patients, living donors, and care partners by removing one worry among everything else that are facing. That said, the patient interviews and survey should also ask questions that could reveal additional systemic barriers that the Applicant could address. Page 23 of 26 STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the Transplant Institute and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnic background, gender/gender identity, age group, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. NYULH plan to leverage this dashboard and data, as it does throughout its various projects, to reveal and address inequities and disparities. There are existing metrics that are and should continue to being measured and assessed along each step of the donor and transplant process related to possible inequities and disparities, such as number of transplants, time on waitlists, waitlist mortality rate, and one year survival rates. To oversee departmental initiatives aimed at reducing health disparities and increasing health equity, the department appointed a Vice Chair of Diversity and Health Equity in Surgery and the Transplant Institute. The department also recently expanded the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program. This program aims to: • Provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to people of Latino ancestry who are experiencing liver malignancies and end stage liver disease (ESLD), • Address current disparities in the health care system with regards to access and quality care for minoritized populations, and • Become a premier liver transplant program that provides cutting edge, optimum health care tailored to the needs of the Latino/a/x Hispanic people suffering from liver malignancies and ESLD. Many of the patients evaluated through the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program access the transplant services that will be relocated in the proposed project. Accordingly, the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program provides another structured mechanism through which the department can continuously monitor the impact of its efforts on the health outcomes of patients from medically underserved groups. Page 24 of 26 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant might consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the state, the Applicant can re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and NYS are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant may also consider continuously engaging with patients engaged in this process and community groups to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. This will help ensure the success of this project and inform future projects of a similar nature. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max)