This conference brought together policymakers, practitioners, and community members to explore cutting edge approaches to addressing the interface of climate change, healthcare, and health. OUR PILLARS:ADVOCATE FOR A SUSTAINABLE HEALTHCARE FUTUREIn 2024, NYU Langone celebrated Earth Month by giving back to our communities’ parks and waterways by hosting our first ever park beautification event. Staff and their families volunteered at local city park to plant native plants, remove weeds and spread wood chips. Recreational spaces like parks and waterways are an important part of our neighborhoods. They are central hubs for residents to meet with one another, and to be outdoors and enjoy nature. These public spaces also promote biodiversity and provide a habitat for native species to thrive alongside in our cities.Climate change affects public health and our ability to provide care. Our 8th annual Health And...conference focused on climate action to underscore the urgency of the topic and to harness momentum on several important initiatives occurring here at NYU Langone, across NYC, and federally. Cross sectoral collaboration is essential to bring about the change we know is needed to mitigate and adapt to the worst impacts of climate change.Lorna Thorpe, PhD, MPHChair of the Department of Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine2223References 1 , 3 Avery, et al, 2023. (2023). Fifth National Climate Assessment. U.S. Global Change Research Program. doi.org/10.7930/NCA5.2023.FM 2 NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information. (2024). 2023 was the warmest year in the modern temperature record. NOAA. www.climate.gov/news features/featured images/2023 was warmest year modern temperature record4 GHG Protocol. (2024). FAQ. GHG Protocol. ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/2022 12/FAQ.pdf5 NYC Mayor’s Office of Climate & Environmental Justice. (2023). NYC Carbon Challenge. NYC MOCEJ. climate.cityofnewyork.us/initiatives/nyc carbon challengeREFERENCES & CITATIONSPhotography CreditsPageCredit1Haley Ricciardi2Jocelyn Gan (top left, bottom right), Adam Watt (middle left), Lorenzo Bev ilaqua (bottom left). Haley Ricciardi (top and middle right)4John Abbott6Haley Ricciardi (top left), Rene Perez (bottom left), Jeff Goldberg (top right), Fred Verkhovsky (bottom right)11Joe Carrotta13Jocelyn Gan14Haley Ricciardi15Atiba Grant (top), Axay Shah (bottom)16Joe Carrotta19Zach Esposito (top left), Jay Brady (bottom left), Haley Ricciardi (right)20Lorenzo Bevilaqua23Juliana Thomas (top), Jocelyn Gan (bottom)Department of Real Estate Development and FacilitiesThis report was prepared by the energy & sustainability team. sustainability@nyulangone.orgnyulangone.org/sustainability