Breast Cancer Surgeons Breast Oncologists Breast Plastic Surgeons Cancer Rehabilitation Specialists Cardiac Electrophysiologists Cardio-Oncologists Cardio-Rheumatologists Adult Congenital Heart Disease Doctors Heart Failure Doctors Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Doctors Interventional Cardiologists Pediatric Cardiologists Child & Adolescent Psychiatrists Child & Adolescent Psychologists Children's Nutritionists Clinical Neurophysiologists Colorectal Surgeons Cornea Specialists Cosmetic Plastic Surgeons Dementia & Alzheimer's Specialists Dentists Dermatologic Surgeons Dermatologists Autoimmune Dermatologists Cosmetic Dermatologists Hair Loss Dermatologists Melanoma Dermatologists Onco-Dermatologists Pediatric Dermatologists Skin Allergy Doctors Skin of Color Dermatologists Developmental & Behavioral Pediatricians Diabetes Specialists Endocrine Surgeons Bone Health Doctors Lipidologists Pediatric Endocrinologists Reproductive Endocrinologists Thyroid Doctors Transgender Endocrinologists Epilepsy Doctors Epilepsy Surgeons Exercise Physiologists Family Medicine Specialists Family Planning Specialists Forensic Psychiatrists Gastroenterologists Advanced Endoscopy Specialists Esophagus Doctors Hepatologists Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctors Pediatric Gastroenterologists Gastrointestinal Oncologists Gender Affirming Surgeons General Surgeons Genitourinary Oncologists Geriatricians Glaucoma Specialists Gynecologic Oncologists Gynecologists Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Doctors Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialists Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgeons Obstetricians Urogynecologists Hand Plastic Surgeons Head & Neck Oncologists Headache Specialists Hematologists Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgeons Infectious Disease Specialists Internists Interventional Pulmonologists Interventional Spine Specialists Kidney Stones Specialists Laryngologists Medical Oncologists Melanoma Specialists Musculoskeletal Oncologists Neuro-Oncologists Pediatric Hematologist-Oncologists Pediatric Neuro-oncologists Surgical Oncologists Thoracic Oncologists Urologic Oncologists Midwife Specialists Multiple Sclerosis Specialists Neonatologists Nephrologists Neuro-Ophthalmologists Neuro-Otologists Neurologic Physical Therapists Neurological Occupational Therapists Neurological Speech Pathologists Neurologists Clinical Neuropsychologists Neurogeneticists Neuromuscular Specialists Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialists Pediatric Epilepsy Doctors Pediatric Neurologists Sleep Medicine Doctors Vascular Neurologists Neuropsychiatrists Skull Base Surgeons Spine Surgeons Nutritionists Obesity Doctors Hand Therapists Pediatric Hand Therapists Pediatric Occupational Therapists Oculoplastic Surgeons Ophthalmologists Optometrists Pediatric Ophthalmologists Pediatric Optometrists Retinal Specialists Strabismus Specialists Uveitis Specialists Vitreoretinal Surgeons Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeons Orthopedic Rehabilitation Specialists Orthopedic Surgeons Foot & Ankle Surgeons Hand & Wrist Surgeons Hip & Knee Reconstruction Specialists Orthopedic Trauma Surgeons Orthoplastic Surgeons Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeons Podiatrists Shoulder & Elbow Surgeons Sports Medicine Specialists Sports Orthopedic Surgeons Otolaryngologists Cochlear Implant Audiologists Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeons Head & Neck Surgeons Otologist & Neurotologists Pediatric Otolaryngologists Rhinologists Speech Pathologists Swallowing Specialists Pain Management Doctors Palliative Care Doctors Pediatric Allergist & Immunologists Pediatric Cardiac Surgeons Pediatric Hand Surgeons Pediatric Hepatologists Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctors Pediatric Nephrologists Pediatric Neuropsychologists Pediatric Neurosurgeons Pediatric Pelvic Floor Therapists Pediatric Physiatrists Pediatric Physical Therapists Pediatric Plastic Surgeons Pediatric Pulmonologists Pediatric Rheumatologists Pediatric Schroth Therapists Pediatric Speech Therapists Pediatric Surgeons Pediatric Urologists Pediatric Vestibular Therapists Pediatricians Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Specialists Lymphedema Therapists Pelvic Floor Therapists Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapists TMJ Physical Therapists Vestibular Physical Therapists Work Conditioning Therapists Orthodontists Reconstructive Plastic Surgeons Wound Care Specialists Preventive Cardiologists Psychiatrists Psychosomatic Medicine Doctors Pulmonary Hypertension Specialists Pulmonologists Radiation Oncologists Rheumatologists Gout Specialists Lupus Doctors Psoriatic Arthritis Rheumatologists Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapists Sports Nutrition Specialists Thoracic Surgeons Toxicologists Transplant Pulmonologists Transplant Surgeons Urologists Andrologists Endourologists Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgeons Vascular Surgeons Vulvar Disease Specialists View All Specialties 212-263-7721 Neuro-ophthalmologists at NYU Langone are vastly experienced in diagnosing and treating all neuro-ophthalmologic conditions, including conditions affecting the vision nerves, brain vision pathways, and eye movements. The conditions we treat for vision disorders include optic neuritis, ischemic optic neuropathy, optic nerve problems related to tumors, hereditary optic nerve disorders, pseudotumor cerebri, double vision, and nystagmus. If you are experiencing one of these conditions, you may have symptoms such as vision loss or double vision. Neuro-ophthalmologist Dr. Laura Balcer and neurologist Dr. Steven Galetta examine scans on a computer. Our physicians are highly skilled in diagnosing the underlying cause of these symptoms. Our doctors are also actively involved in research related to vision nerve problems and abnormal eye movements in , and other neurological conditions. Our team of neuro-ophthalmologists cares for adolescents and adults who are experiencing problems with vision and the central nervous system. Nancy Blace Steven L. Galetta Doria M. Gold Scott N. Grossman Melody Merati The expert team at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center provides the medical and rehabilitation support you need to recover from a head injury. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center diagnose and treat individuals with multiple sclerosis. NYU Langone Orthopedic Second Opinion Service Orthopedic Second Opinion Get a Second Opinion No. 1 in Quality & Safety Nationally recognized for providing the highest-quality care and having the best patient outcomes. 20,000 Surgeries Each Year As one of the highest volume centers in the United States, we’re in a unique position to improve patient outcomes. Perhaps your doctor has told you that you need surgery, or you have an orthopedic injury or condition that reoccurs even after treatment. Navigating healthcare issues like these can be challenging and time consuming. When you have questions or concerns about your medical condition or treatment plan, a second opinion can help you make informed decisions about your care. Create an account to get your second opinion from an NYU Langone expert. Request a Second Opinion NYU Langone’s online second opinion service gives you convenient access to the expertise and guidance of our renowned orthopedic surgeons. As one of the top-ranked orthopedic programs in the country, our specialists care for tens of thousands of people each year, providing the most advanced and innovative treatment. Our surgeons are experts in all areas of orthopedic care, from joint replacements and bone fractures to spinal disorders and sports injuries. Our orthopedic surgeons review your medical records and provide a personalized second opinion report to you and your treating physician. A second opinion can confirm your diagnosis and treatment plan, or provide different recommendations that you can review and discuss with your doctor. Get a Second Opinion Online You can get an online orthopedic second opinion without leaving home or traveling for an in-person visit with a specialist. We collect your medical information for your second opinion and send the report through our secure online portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. Here are the steps: Sign up for an NYU Langone Health MyChart account to get your second opinion. Tell us about your condition and provide your relevant medical records, imaging exams, and contact information for one of your treating physicians. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up to confirm your submission is complete. An NYU Langone expert reviews your information and prepares your second opinion report. We select the doctor who specializes in your condition to provide your second opinion. You can ask this expert to answer specific questions about your condition and treatment plan and get detailed responses. Our coordinator can help guide you through the second opinion process, and with gathering your medical information for the expert to review. After receiving your information, the coordinator follows up within three business days to confirm that your submission is complete. If additional information is needed, the coordinator can work with you to gather and provide the necessary information. Your second opinion report is usually ready within five business days after receipt of your completed submission. If you have questions or to contact the coordinator, please call 646-878-1888 Orthopedic Second Opinion Cost The cost of an orthopedic second opinion is $800. This fee includes: a review of your medical records and imaging exams an expert evaluation of your case by an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon a detailed written report You can ask the expert to answer up to five questions in your second opinion report. You provide these questions along with your medical information for the expert to review. Payment is due when you submit your information. Most insurance plans do not cover the cost of a second opinion, and we are unable to provide a Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code. However, you may be able to use a flexible spending account (FSA) or health savings account (HSA) to pay for the second opinion. If we are unable to provide a second opinion for any reason, we refund your payment. After you receive your second opinion report, if you wish, we can help you schedule a visit with the specialist who provided your second opinion. This appointment is separate from the second opinion service and is not included in the cost of your second opinion. Imaging and Medical Information Requirements To ensure we have the right information to provide a thorough review, you need to gather your relevant medical records from your treating doctor and be prepared to submit them. This includes imaging studies, a copy of your operative report if you had surgery, a copy of your discharge summary if you were hospitalized, a summary of your doctor’s current treatment plan, and a list of all your medications. To get a second opinion, you must provide the imaging exams used to diagnosis your injury or condition, such as X-rays, MRIs, CT scans, or ultrasounds. Our secure portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart, allows you to upload and submit these imaging studies along with your information for your second opinion. Please use MyChart on a laptop or personal computer, instead of a phone or tablet. This provides the best experience and ensures you have access to all features in MyChart. NYU Langone’s Orthopedic Second Opinion Service does not create a physician–patient relationship between you and the NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon who rendered your second opinion. To get a second opinion, you must provide the contact information for a physician whose care you are currently under. NYU Langone will send a copy of the second opinion report to this doctor. You review the second opinion and decide whether to discuss it with your treating physician or another doctor of your choosing. Online Second Opinion Availability You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We are not currently able to offer this online service outside the United States, or in the following states: Alabama, Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon, you can browse our list of doctors By completing the process to request a second opinion and submitting payment, you acknowledge and agree to the above terms and conditions. Take Control of Your Healthcare with a Second Opinion We offer at-home sessions through the NYU Langone Health app. 929-455-5126 Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a type of noninvasive brain stimulation that can be used in the treatment of certain conditions. tDCS is used in different ways depending on the condition and treatment goal. For instance, it can help recovery from cognitive, motor, or speech and language problems from neurological disorders like , dementia, and head injury. In this approach, tDCS is used together with cognitive, motor, or speech and language exercises to “boost” the recovery process. Another common use of tDCS is for the treatment of . Daily sessions can have a cumulative benefit that many people find effective in improving their mood, cognitive difficulties, and ability to be physically active. In 2019, NYU Langone launched its innovative tDCS Program, which provides a way for people to receive this treatment at home. Our tDCS sessions, which are tailored to your individual needs and therapeutic goals, take place through video visits in the . Our team has more than a decade of experience studying tDCS as a home-based treatment. Using state-of-the art medical grade tDCS systems, our procedures ensure that your tDCS treatment is safe and well-tolerated. Learn more about the tDCS clinical program team. What to Expect During tDCS Treatment Each tDCS treatment session takes place by video visit and is supervised by an NYU Langone technician. During the session you wear a comfortable headset fitted with electrodes that rest on your scalp. A low-grade electric current flows through the electrodes while you engage in a therapeutic activity designed to treat your condition. These activities may include cognitive rehabilitation games, speech and language training, physical therapy exercises, or psychological interventions such as mindfulness meditation. Depending on the condition being treated, tDCS is used to either increase or decrease brain activity in the region where the current is directed. Each at-home session typically lasts 30 minutes. We generally recommend a minimum of 10 daily sessions to evaluate if you are experiencing benefits. “The first day I tried tDCS, I started crying while doing my balance exercises—I couldn’t believe how well I was doing. Over the first week of treatment, everything I was working on improved significantly—both my vision therapist and my vestibular therapist were over the moon about my progress.” M. Archer Prior to the initial video visit, our team sends you all the equipment, including a custom headset. During a virtual intake visit we show you how to use the equipment and discusses your individual treatment plan. tDCS is not currently covered by insurance, but your initial visit may be reimbursable. Our program offers bundled sessions to reduce the cost per session and the equipment is loaned to you as part of treatment. Our Research and Clinical Trials If you are a doctor or other provider and would like to refer a patient to the tDCS Program, please call 929-455-5126. Researchers at NYU Langone lead the field in developing the use of tDCS and other emerging technologies to manage a range of cognitive, motor, and psychological symptoms and improve quality of life for the people who experience them. Learn more about our research efforts In addition, members of our team conduct designed to determine additional conditions that may benefit from tDCS. We may discuss whether it is appropriate for you to participate in one of these trials. For questions about our tDCS program or to learn whether it may be beneficial for you, call 929-455-5126. If you are a neurologist, psychiatrist, psychologist, physical or occupational therapist, speech–language pathologist, or other provider and would like to refer a patient, please call 929-455-5126. Experts at the tDCS Program offer at-home, customizable sessions, scheduled at your convenience. NYU Langone Launches Virtual Brain Stimulation Program NYU Langone Military Family Center We support veterans and military families in the New York City area. 855-698-4677 Military Family Center Our Programs & Services At the NYU Langone Military Family Center, we provide free, compassionate care for veterans and military families who are experiencing the long-term effects of all phases of military service and other life stresses, including relationship difficulties, school problems, and unemployment and relocation issues. Veterans Crisis Line This nationwide, toll-free hotline connects veterans and service members in crisis and their loved ones with information and qualified Department of Veterans Affairs responders. For more information, call 800-273-8255 Learn More About the Veterans Crisis Line We welcome veterans, including anyone who has served in the United States Armed Services, regardless of role, discharge status, or combat experience, as well as members of the National Guard and Reserve. We also extend our services to the parents, siblings, spouses and partners, children, caretakers, and other family members of active-duty personnel, veterans, and members of the National Guard or Reserve. We offer high-quality, accessible, and integrated mental healthcare. Our free, confidential services are available in-person or through our Telemental Health Program. For patients in New York and Connecticut, these online sessions are offered through the . The confidential platform allows our mental health professionals to provide personalized care to military veterans and family members who prefer to work with their care team remotely or at flexible times. We do not share people’s confidential information with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs or any other public, private, or government entities unless required by law or with written permission. We comply with federal guidelines set by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Former Marine Corps captain Lamar Winslow talks about receiving care at the NYU Langone Military Family Center after experiencing symptoms of stress related to his military service. Our center hours are Monday through Thursday from 9:00AM to 8:00PM and Friday from 9:00AM to 6:00PM. We are closed on weekends and holidays. For more information about our services or to schedule an appointment, please call MilitaryFamilyClinic@NYULangone.org , which include individual, couples, and family therapy, medication management, and psychiatric evaluation. If you need immediate assistance, please contact the Veterans Crisis Line at . This confidential crisis support is available for veterans and their families 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Thank You The NYU Langone Military Family Center’s services are supported by generous funding from the Home Depot Foundation, the New York State Health Foundation, and the New York City Council. Honor Veterans by Looking After Their Mental Health 2021 ‘Mental Health Power 50’ Lists Two NYU Langone Experts Can Herbs & Other Supplements Treat Depression? Experts Provide Helpful Tips to Manage Holiday Stress Helping Veterans Cope with Mental Health Issues Military Family Clinic Celebrates Milestone Military Family Clinic Strengthens Mental Health Partnership Veterans Find Help at the Steven A. Cohen Military Family Clinic Searching for Better Ways to Diagnose & Treat Veterans , we offer neuropalliative care aimed at improving the quality of life of our patients facing serious neurologic illnesses. Our primary goal is to ensure you feel supported, so we provide personalized care that aligns with your unique needs and preferences. Our team of experts specialize in patient-focused service and provide supportive care that empowers you to navigate your journey with confidence. We focus on managing symptoms, planning medical decisions in advance, and improving quality of life—always in alignment with your expressed wishes. The neuropalliative care service is led by Dr. Eileen J. Harrigan , one of only a handful of neuropalliative care doctors in the tri-state area applying the principles of palliative care to neurological illness. Our dedicated team of healthcare professionals is skilled in treating a wide range of serious neurologic conditions. These include, but are not limited to the following: of any kind, including and related disorders brain tumors amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and related conditions genetic neurologic diseases other serious neurologic illnesses Our treatment approach is as comprehensive as it is compassionate. Our offerings include the following: pain control symptom treatment transitioning to care that prioritizes quality of life As part of the interdisciplinary team approach, a social worker provides psychosocial support to patients and caregivers to assist with coping and managing the illness. Additionally, our social worker completes a comprehensive needs assessment to coordinate appropriate services and resources in the community, which can be helpful in navigating a diagnosis. These resources are unique for each patient but may include the following: support groups for patients and/or care partners educational groups for specific neurologic conditions mental health resources home care services, whether through insurance or private pay coordination of in-home medical care and equipment social day programs exercise classes for specific neurologic conditions medication management systems future plananing, including elder law attorney resources, Medicaid resources, and assisted living and nursing home placement assistance with life transitions, such as a referral to hospice services and end-of-life care Our social worker builds strong, trusting relationships with patients and their families while being a source of guidance and support for those being impacted by a serious neurologic condition. If you or a loved one has been diagnosed with a serious neurologic illness and are interested in our neuropalliative care services, please call to schedule an appointment. Referring physicians can also call to refer patients for our neuropalliative care services. Our neuropalliative care services are supported by the Fan Fox and Leslie R Samuels Foundation, Inc. 212-263-7225 At NYU Langone’s Dysautonomia Center, our experts are committed to improving the quality of life for people with by bridging the gap between basic science and clinical medicine. Our team provides comprehensive and compassionate care to help patients manage the daily challenges of living with autonomic dysfunction. Your autonomic nervous system is comprised of a network of neurons that transmits information from the brain and spinal cord to your heart, bladder, gastrointestinal tract, sweat glands, blood vessels, sexual organs, and pupils of your eyes. For the most part, the autonomic nervous system is not under your voluntary control. Dysautonomia occurs when this system malfunctions. The condition can happen in several different disorders. Learn more about the types of autonomic disorders Our neurologists provide comprehensive care to people with autonomic disorders. Our Dysautonomia Center is a unique facility that welcomes both adults and children, along with family members and others who are involved in the care of patients with autonomic disorders. As one of the few centers in the world specializing in autonomic disorders—both genetic and non-genetic, or sporadic, types—we strive to provide our patients with the most up-to-date and accurate information on their condition, prognosis, and treatment options. For more than 40 years, our center has been supported by the Familial Dysautonomia Foundation, Inc We also have an autonomic disorders research program and laboratory . Our team has made a number of discoveries that have shaped our understanding of autonomic disorders, allowing us to bring new treatment options to people living with this condition. We perform laboratory research and clinical trials, and train medical experts. Making an Appointment We focus on the treatment of autonomic dysfunction as the result of hereditary diseases, such as familial dysautonomia and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies, and neurodegenerative conditions, such as multiple system atrophy, , or neuropathies. If you fit this description, you may be evaluated at our outpatient clinic. Please ask your primary care physician to send you a referral letter, as well as your blood pressure readings and heart rate, measured while lying down and then standing. You must also complete our assessment forms regarding your symptoms and medical history that are sent to you upon contacting us. We ask that your physician send us a copy of your medical records by mail or fax. Medical records are not returned, so please do not send originals. After we receive this information, we contact you to discuss a possible visit to the clinic and a date for autonomic testing. What to Expect at Your First Appointment To ensure an efficient and effective visit, please make sure to bring the following materials to your first appointment or fax them before you arrive: copies of any CT scans, MRI scans, ultrasounds, or other imaging tests copies of any recent blood tests copies of sleep studies copies of autonomic tests copies of other relevant studies, such as Holter monitor, stress test, or blood pressure tests a list of all your current medications and their dosages On the day of your visit, you are asked to fill out additional questionnaires as well. During your visit, you meet with a Dysautonomia Center team member who asks you questions about your medical problem and performs a thorough physical and neurological examination. The information you provide and the results of the assessment are used to determine which autonomic tests are performed next. If you are eligible, you may be asked to sign a consent form to participate in our international registry for patients with autonomic disorders. All information is kept confidential. Our team has vast experience in diagnosing and providing treatment for the many disorders associated with autonomic dysfunction. Maria Alejandra Gonzalez-Duarte Briseno Autonomic Disorder Specialist Horacio Kaufmann The Highest Standard of Care At NYU Langone, we’re committed to providing the highest standard of care for you—and every day, we strive to set those standards even higher. After heart surgery, we get our patients home sooner than other hospitals—four days sooner for adult patients and four weeks sooner for pediatric patients. We have the highest success rates for adult heart surgery in the country and the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. We also have the highest lung transplant success rates in New York, and we get our patients off the organ waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. We bring this same standard of care to every interaction you have with us—from check-ups to emergency care to treating chronic health issues. Learn more about our High Standards for Healthcare Related Videos Reuniting Heart with Home Leaders in Lung Transplant Faster Stroke Care No. 1 in Brain Surgery. Any Way You Look At It. NYU Langone Virtual Urgent Care providers treat children ages 5 to 17 who are experiencing non-emergency conditions. in children include pink eye, diarrhea and vomiting, and fever. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, seven days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. For children ages 4 and younger, please schedule an appointment with the child’s pediatrician via . You can also search for an NYU Langone pediatrician near you Scheduling for Children Ages 5 to 11 A parent or guardian must schedule an appointment for a child ages 5 to 11, and must also be present during the video visit. To make an appointment, you will need proxy access for your child’s NYU Langone MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. Scheduling for Youth Ages 12 to 17 People ages 12 to 17 can schedule their own appointments, or their parent or guardian can do it for them. Appointments scheduled by a parent or guardian require proxy access to their child’s MyChart account. If you do not have proxy access, please call for assistance with scheduling your child’s appointment. The parent or guardian is not required to be present for the visit. For More Information To receive assistance with scheduling a Virtual Urgent Care visit for a child or teen, please call Virtual Urgent Care Cost & Insurance Options Your insurance plan may cover the cost of a visit for you or your child. Virtual Urgent Care is available from early morning until midnight, 7 days a week, for patients ages 5 and older. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telehealth services under your benefit plan. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Accepted Insurance Plans Aetna Aetna EPO (AMEX employees) AETNA EPO (NYULH Employees) Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna International Aetna Medicare Advantage Aetna Open Access EPO Aetna Open Access HMO Aetna POS Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Aetna PPO Aetna Signature Administrators PPO Aetna Student Plan Allied Chesterfield Resources Inc Christian Brothers Services CoreSource Nippon Life of America—Aetna Nippon Life—Aetna Starmark WellNet Amida Care Amida Care Medicaid AnthemBCBSHealth Plus BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 1 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 2 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 3 BCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 4 BCBS Healthplus Gatekeeper exchange BCBS Healthplus Mediblue Advantage BCBS Healthplus NY Child Health Plus NY BCBS Healthplus NY Medicaid Managed Care NY BCBS Healthplus Special Needs Empire Mediblue Healthplus Dual AnthemBlueCrossBlue Shield Anthem BCBS CT HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway HMO Anthem BCBS CT Pathway PPO Anthem BCBS CT PPO BCBS Blue Access EPO Large Group BCBS Blue Access EPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access GEPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access PPO Large Group BCBS EPO BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (LICH Employees) BCBS Federal Program BCBS Florida Blue Select BCBS HMO BCBS Indemnity BCBS Local 32BJ Employees BCBS Mediblue Medicare HMO BCBS Mediblue Medicare PPO BCBS Mediblue Select HMO/Extra HMO BCBS POS BCBS PPO BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO/EPO Small Group BCBS PPO (LICH Employees) New York Hotel Trades Centerlight Healthcare CenterLight Healthcare DIRECT CenterLight Healthcare PACE CenterLight Healthcare Select Centerlight Pace Medicare HMO CentersPlanForHealthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Centers Plan For Healthy Living Medicaid Advantage Plus HMO D-SNP Cigna Apwu Health Plan Cigna Great West PPO Cigna HMO Cigna - Humana Cigna Indemnity Cigna Managed Care/POS Cigna Medicare Advantage Cigna NALC Cigna Open Access Cigna Open Access PPO Cigna Oscar Cigna PPO Cigna Premier Plus Great West HMO Kaiser Permanente MVP-Cigna Network Wellfleet-NYU Student Connecticare Connecticare Bridge Connecticare Commercial Connecticare CT Commercial E Elderplan Elderplan FIDA Elderplan Medicare Advantage Plan Emblem Emblem Select Care Bronze Small Group Emblem Select Care EPO Emblem Select Care Gold Small Group Emblem Select Care HMO Emblem Select Care Platinum Small Group Emblem Select Care PPO Emblem Select Care Silver Small Group F Fidelis Ambetter Fidelis Care Bronze Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Catastrophic Cvg Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Gold Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Native American Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Platinum Exchange Ambetter Fidelis Care Silver Exchange Fidelis Care Child Health Plus Fidelis Care Medicaid Managed Care Fidelis Essential Plan 1 Fidelis Essential Plan 2 Fidelis Essential Plan 3 Fidelis Essential Plan 4 Wellcare by Fidelis Care Medicare Health First Health PPO G GHI American Plan Administrators GHI CBP (City of New York Employees) GHI Emblem Health EPO GHI Emblem Health PPO GHI HMO GHI HMO Medicare GHI Medicare PPO GHI Medicare Supplement GHI Network Access - Benefit Services of PA GHI Network Access - Humana GHI Network Access - Total Plan Concepts IUOE Local 14-14B Wlny-TV Inc. H Hamaspik Choice Hamaspik Choice Medicare DSNP Healthfirst Health And Recovery Plan (Harp) Healthfirst Bronze Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Bronze Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Child Health Plus Healthfirst Essential Plan 1 & 2 Healthfirst Essential Plan 3 & 4 Healthfirst Gold Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Gold Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Green Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Medicaid Healthfirst Medicare Healthfirst Medicare/NYU Risk Healthfirst Personal Wellness Plan Healthfirst Platinum Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Platinum Total, Pro, Plus EPO Healthfirst Silver Leaf Exchange Healthfirst Silver Total, Pro, Plus EPO Emblem Essential Plan 1 Emblem Essential Plan 2 Emblem Essential Plan 3 Emblem Essential Plan 4 HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Bridge HIP Child Health Plus HIP EPO HIP HMO HIP Medicaid Enhanced Care HIP Medicare Supplement HIP POS HIP PPO HIP Prime Basic Exchange HIP Prime Bronze HIP Prime Bronze Exchange HIP Prime Catastrophic Exchange HIP Prime Gold HIP Prime Gold Exchange HIP Prime Platinum HIP Prime Platinum Exchange HIP Prime Silver HIP Prime Silver Exchange HIP VIP Medicare Prime Vytra HMO HotelTrades Council Hotel Trades Council Humana Humana Medicare Advantage L Local 1199 Local 1199 - NYU Hospital Member Choice Local 1199 PPO LongevityHealth Plan Longevity Health Plan Medicare M Magnacare Magnacare PPO MedicaidofNew York NYS Medicaid Medicare Medicare Part A and B Medicare Part B MetroPlusHealth MetroPlusHealthBronze Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Child Health Plus MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 1 and 2 MetroPlusHealth Essential Plan 3 and 4 MetroPlusHealth Gold MetroPlusHealth Gold Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Goldcare MetroPlusHealth Medicaid Managed Care MetroPlusHealth Medicare MetroPlusHealth Platinum Plus Plan Exchange MetroPlusHealth Silver Plus Plan Exchange Multiplan Administrative Concepts AXA Assistance USA Beech Street PPO Diversified Administration Corporation Fiserv Health GEHA Global Excel Global Health Guardian Life Insurance Co Of America Health Net Of California Health Republic Of NJ Insurance Design Administrators Kaiser Foundation Meritain Health Multiplan PPO Multiplan—Capital Dist Phys Health Mutual Of Omaha Nippon Life Ins Co PHCS Professional Benefit Admin Qualcare Inc Screen Actors Guild Teamsters Allied Benefits US Life Insurance Company N NYSHIP-TheEmpire NYS Health Insurance Plan - The Empire Plan, Excelsior Plan, NY Student Employee Health Plan O Oxford Oxford Health Plans Freedom Oxford Health Plans Liberty Oxford Metro P PartnersHealthPlan Inc Partners Health Plan FIDA Partners Health Plan Medicaid Partners Health Plan Medicare POMCOInsurance Company POMCO Insurance Company Q Qualcare Inc. Qualcare Direct R Railroad Palmetto GBA Railroad Medicare RiverSpringHealth River Spring Medicare HMP SNP Sedgwick WTC World Trade Center - Sedgwick SeniorWhole Senior Whole Health Medicare Advantage T Tricare TriWest US Family Health Plan U United AARP Medicare Complete AARP Medicare Complete Mosaic Bind Benefits inc Oxford Health Plans Medicare Advantage UHC Medicare Complete Choice Regional PPO UMR United Health Care Charter United Healthcare AARP United Healthcare All Savers United Healthcare CareCore United Healthcare Choice United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Simon United Healthcare Compass Exchange United Healthcare EPO United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Golden Rule Insurance United Healthcare Healthscope United Healthcare HMO United Healthcare Indemnity United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Medicare United Healthcare Navigate United Healthcare Nexus United Healthcare Nexus (Amex Employees) United Healthcare (NY University Care Plan) United Healthcare NYU Care (NYULH Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare POS United Healthcare PPO United Healthcare Student Resources United Healthcare Student Resources (NYU) United Healthcare Value, Advantage and HDHP (New York University employees) UnitedHealthcare Choice (NY Power Authority Employees) V VACommunityCare Network VA CCN Optum Village VillageCare VNSChoice Advantage VNS Medicare Advantage VNS NY Choice Select Health W Wellcare WellCare Medicare WTCHealth NY Fire Department - WTC WTC Health Program Manual Verification Required These insurance plans cannot be verified electronically. After your visit is confirmed, you will need to call 877-698-2331 to speak with acustomer service representative who can verify your insurance plan Monday to Friday between 8:00AM to 7:00PM. Alternatively, you can also confirm with your insurance carrier if they cover Virtual Urgent Care visits. You may be charged the $126 self-pay fee if your insurance plan is not verified before your video visit. You can submit the receipt to your insurance carrier for reimbursement if eligible. Common Questions About Virtual Urgent Care service offers adults and children ages 5 and over same-day care for non-emergency medical concerns. A Virtual Urgent Care video visit takes place through the , which is accessed from your mobile phone, tablet, or computer. Here are some common questions about Virtual Urgent Care. How Do I Schedule a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment? Can I Have a Virtual Urgent Care Visit If I’m Not in New York? How Do I Make a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment for a Child? Services Provided Through Virtual Urgent Care Can Medications Be Prescribed? How Can I Obtain a Doctor’s Note for My Work or School? Accessing Virtual Urgent Care How Do I Connect to Virtual Urgent Care? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Mobile Device? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Computer? How Do I Cancel a Virtual Urgent Care Video Visit? What If I Experience Technical Issues? Follow-Up Care What If I Need Blood Work, Imaging Services, or Follow-Up Care After My Visit? What If I Have a Question After My Visit? You can make an appointment online through our website’s scheduling portal or through your or your child’s