successfully implant the world’s smallest leadless cardiac pacemaker. We also excel in heart disease prevention through efforts such as childhood obesity awareness, heart health screenings for families, nutrition classes, and clinical trials. For all these reasons, NYU Langone ranks No. 5 in the nation’s cardiology and heart surgery programs according to ’s “Best Hospitals” rankings. Your support will help us climb higher and do more. Support Cardiovascular Research and Patient Care Connect developmentoffice@nyulangone.org 212-404-3640 Financial Disclosures Get Updates Visit our Facebook page Visit our Instagram page Visit our Twitter page Visit our Youtube page Scroll To Top At NYU Langone’s Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) Program, our team offers comprehensive diagnosis and therapies for the management of this condition, with the aim to improve symptoms and quality of life and reduce the risk of hospitalization. Understanding Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction Of the 6.7 million annual cases of that occur in the United States, HFpEF accounts for nearly half. By 2030, these cases are expected to go up to 8.3 million. People with HFpEF are at high risk of being hospitalized both for cardiac and non-cardiac causes. The prevalence of HFpEF is higher in women than in men, and risk increases with age. When we talk about heart failure, we often refer to ejection fraction. This is a measure of how well your heart is pumping blood to the rest of your body. In the case of HFpEF, the ejection fraction is normal, which means the heart is pumping as it should. However, the heart muscle becomes thicker and stiffer, making it hard for the heart to relax. HFpEF may present with the following symptoms: abdominal swelling exercise intolerance fatigue shortness of breath, while upright or lying flat swelling in the lower extremities Our Comprehensive Approach , we provide comprehensive, evidence-based care for people with HFpEF. Our approach focuses on improving your symptoms, enhancing your quality of life, and minimizing the need for hospital visits. To ensure you receive the most individualized and effective care, our diverse team of experts includes pulmonologists, pulmonary hypertension specialists, weight management experts, endocrinologists, nephrologists, and cardiology subspecialists including electrophysiologists and interventional cardiologists. We also offer a dedicated program that helps people with HFpEF participate in ongoing clinical trials and research studies for novel treatments and devices. We specialize in diagnosing heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and collaborate with a diverse team of experts to develop a comprehensive treatment plan. Our expert team provides compassionate, customized treatment for people with heart failure. Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Rehabilitation and Prevention Center 646-501-0145 If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please 646-501-0119. Heart Failure Advanced Care Center Team , our nurse practitioners, registered nurses, and social workers collaborate with our doctors to provide you with expert care and support. Our Nurse Practitioners Jennifer Pavone, MS, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Pavone is director of transplant operations for the . After earning a bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of Delaware in 2010, she began her nursing career at NYU Langone in the surgical and cardiovascular intensive care unit. She joined the team in 2014 as the clinical resource nurse. In 2015, she earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. Sarah Riggio, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC Ms. Riggio is manager of the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and . She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in 2011. She began her career at NYU Langone as a student nurse extern on the cardiothoracic step-down unit and worked there for seven years. She earned her master’s degree in adult–gerontology primary care from Hunter College in 2017. She began working with the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. Ms. Riggio is board-certified in cardiac vascular nursing and as an adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. Amy Emmarco, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC A registered nurse and board-certified adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner, Ms. Emmarco has been with NYU Langone since 2008. In 2016, she joined the LVAD Program as a mechanical circulatory support clinical resource nurse. In this role, she educates our team and our patients about durable, long-term circulatory support devices. Before joining the LVAD Program team, Ms. Emmarco worked as a staff nurse on the cardiothoracic surgical step-down unit. She received her bachelor’s degree from Rutgers University and her master’s degree from William Paterson University. Ms. Emmarco is certified in cardiac vascular nursing. Maureen Geary, MSN, RN, ANP-BC Ms. Geary has been a board-certified adult nurse practitioner since 2004. She joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center team in 2014, having previously worked at a general cardiology practice in Buffalo, New York. Ms. Geary received her bachelor’s degree from Kent State University and her master’s degree in critical care nursing from Case Western Reserve University. She completed her advanced certificate studies in the adult nurse practitioner program at the University at Buffalo, part of the State University of New York. Ms. Geary is a certified heart failure nurse and a member of the Nurse Practitioner Association New York State, Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing, and the American College of Cardiology. She instructs nurse practitioner students and mentors new nurse practitioners. Sandra Landivar, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Landivar joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2021. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU in 2015, and has worked in transplant and intensive care for her entire career. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in May 2020. Alaine Mulcahy, AGACNP-BC Ms. Mulcahy joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2019. Her nursing career began in 2015 in the spine and orthopedic telemetry unit at . She received her adult–gerontology acute care nurse practitioner degree from the University of Pennsylvania. Mauli Patel, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Patel joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center as a board-certified adult–gerontology acute care nurse practitioner in 2017. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She began her nursing career as a medicine and cardiology nurse in Los Angeles and worked as a registered nurse in a cardiac intensive care unit in Manhattan. Ms. Patel earned her master’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing in 2017. She also serves as an adjunct faculty member at NYU, instructing new nursing students. Rebecca Reich, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Reich joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from Binghamton University in 2012, and has worked in cardiology medicine and cardiothoracic surgery. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. Meifung Schuman, MSN, RN, AGACNP-BC Ms. Schuman joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2020 after recognizing her passion for caring for heart failure patients. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of Pennsylvania in 2015 and started her nursing career in Pennyslvania before moving to New York. She earned a master’s degree in adult–gerontology acute care from the University of Pennslyvania in 2019. Shanah Strumeier, MSN, RN, AGPCNP Ms. Strumeier joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center, LVAD Program, and heart transplant team in 2018. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the College of Mount Saint Vincent and master’s degree in nursing from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She received a bachelor’s degree in speech and hearing sciences–audiology and psychology from Indiana University. She began her nursing career at NYU Langone in the cardiovascular special care unit. Ms. Strumeier is board-certified as an adult–gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. Our Registered Nurses Alyssa Amerosa, BSN, RN Ms. Amerosa is a registered nurse in the Heart Failure and CardioMEMS program. She earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from Wilkes University in 2014. Before coming to NYU Langone, she worked for five years as a charge nurse in a coronary care and cardiovascular intensive care unit. Ms. Amerosa joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center in 2019. Josephine Quinlan, MS, RN-BC Mrs. Quinlan is a registered nurse and board-certified in cardiac vascular nursing. She received her bachelor’s degree from The College of New Rochelle and her master’s degree in nursing education from NYU Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She has been with NYU Langone since 2009 and started her career in the cardiothoracic surgical unit. In 2018, Mrs. Quinlan took on the role of nurse navigator on NYU Langone’s decompensated heart failure team. In this role, she provides education to patients who have been diagnosed with heart failure and coordinates patient care after hospital discharge with other members of the decompensated heart failure team, which includes the nurse practitioner, social worker, and pharmacist. MaryGladys San Agustin, BSN, RN, CCRN Ms. San Agustin is the clinical coordinator of the heart transplant program. She educates patients and their families on the pretransplant evaluation process and post-transplant care. Before coming to NYU Langone, she worked as an emergency department staff nurse and in the cardiothoracic recovery room. Ms. San Agustin earned her bachelor’s degree in nursing from the University of the City of Manila and is a certified member of American Association of Critical Care Nurses. Our Social Workers Stefanie Philipson, MSW Ms. Philipson joined the LVAD Program and Heart Failure Advanced Care Center team in 2013. She studied at the State University of New York at Albany and received her master’s degree in social work from Columbia University. Ms. Philipson started her career at NYC Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst. She joined NYU Langone in 2001, starting in transplant surgery. Dale Schneitzer, MSW, LCSW Ms. Schneitzer received her master’s degree in social work from NYU. She is a senior clinician and has worked in surgery, surgical oncology, heart failure, transplant, and hematology and oncology. She joined the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center and NYU Langone Transplant Institute in 2017. Ms. Schneitzer has received advanced training in psychotherapy and maintains a mental health practice in New York City. Rebecca Hausman, LCSW Ms. Hausman joined the heart failure team as a licensed clinical social worker in 2018. She has since become integrated into the heart transplant team and LVAD Program. She also serves as the social worker for the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center outpatient office. After earning her undergraduate degree from the University of Michigan and master’s degree in social work from NYU, she started her career at NYU Langone in 2014. She worked on internal medicine and general surgery before her current role. The media relations staff at NYU Langone Health is committed to responding quickly to news media requests and facilitating interviews with our nationally respected experts in virtually every area of clinical care, biomedical research, and medical education. Please choose an area below to find the right member of our team to assist you: Clinical Areas Institutional Matter s All Outpatient Locations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Department of Population Health General and pressing after-hours inquiries from members of the media should be sent to News@NYULangone.org or by calling 212-404-3500 , although email is recommended. interview and filming policies Media Contacts Staff for Clinical Areas Marlene Naanes Director Clinical areas: orthopedic surgery, Sports Center, Concussion Center, rheumatology, plastic surgery, rehabilitation medicine 646-754-5016 Marlene.Naanes@NYULangone.org Katie Ullman Senior Manager Clinical areas: cardiology, cardiothoracic surgery, pediatrics and Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, child and adolescent psychiatry, and endocrinology, diabetes, and metabolism 212-404-3511 Kathryn.Ullman@NYULangone.org Colin DeVries Manager Clinical areas: neurology, neurosurgery, transplant surgery, surgery, ophthalmology, and anesthesiology, perioperative care, and pain medicine 212-404-3588 Colin.DeVries@NYULangone.org Ryan Dziuba Clinical areas: Perlmutter Cancer Center, emergency medicine, psychiatry, infectious disease and immunology, and pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine 212-404-4131 Ryan.Dziuba@NYULangone.org Lacy Scarmana Clinical areas: obstetrics and gynecology, otolaryngology, gastroenterology and hepatology, and bariatrics 646-754-7367 Lacy.Scarmana@NYULangone.org Casey Nicholl Coordinator Clinical areas: general internal medicine and innovation, dermatology, urology, nephrology, and geriatric medicine and palliative care 212-404-5424 Casey.Nicholl@NYULangone.org Media Contacts Staff for Research Greg Williams Associate Director Clinical area: Radiology 212-404-3533 Gregory.Williams@NYULangone.org David March 212-404-3528 David.March@NYULangone.org Shira Polan 212-404-4279 Shira.Polan@NYULangone.org Media Contacts for Institutional Matters Steve Ritea Senior Director 212-404-3525 Steve.Ritea@NYULangone.org Arielle Sklar 646-960-2696 Arielle.Sklar@NYULangone.org Media Contacts for All Outpatient Locations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island James Iorio Locations: NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, Brooklyn, and Suffolk County 646-530-2710 James.Iorio@NYULangone.org Rosemary Gomez Locations: NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and Nassau County 516-663-2709 Rosemary.Gomez@NYULangone.org Media Contact for NYU Grossman School of Medicine Media Contact for NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Media Contact for the Department of Population Health Sasha Walek 646-501-3873 Sasha.Walek@NYULangone.org Interview & Filming Policies Robotic Surgery Center What Is Robotic Surgery Our Team Approach Robotic Surgery for Cancers & Tumors Robotic Surgery for Obesity Robotic Surgery for Airway, Breathing & Lung Conditions Robotic Surgery for Head & Neck Conditions Robotic Surgery for Heart Conditions Robotic Surgery for Digestive & Gastrointestinal Conditions Robotic Surgery for Female Reproductive & Sexual Health Conditions Robotic Surgery for Benign Conditions of the Urinary Tract is internationally known for our robotically assisted cardiac surgery program. Surgeons from have performed more than 1,200 procedures to date, including mitral valve repair , cardiac tumor removal, and Robotically assisted heart surgery is performed through five small incisions placed between the ribs on the side of the chest. Your doctor uses the incisions to guide small surgical tools and a high-definition camera into the chest. A robotic approach allows for a quicker, easier recovery because there is less blood loss, less scarring, less pain, and a lower risk of infection than traditional surgical techniques. Robotic Mitral Valve Repair Techniques Cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s are worldwide leaders in robotic mitral valve repair, which is a procedure to repair a valve that has been weakened by mitral valve disease. VIDEO: Robotic mitral valve repair Robotic Cardiac Tumor Removal Robotically assisted surgery can be used to treat cardiac tumors, also known as myxoma. Most cardiac tumors are small, non-cancerous, and do not cause symptoms. However they have to be removed because they can grow and affect how blood flows through the heart and lead to . Using a robotic approach to tumor removal allows for an extremely precise excision technique that targets all of the existing tumor cells without the need for open heart surgery. Robotic Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery Our surgeons have made great strides in improving minimally invasive approaches to , including robotically assisted procedures. Our robotic cardiac surgeons partner with our interventional cardiologists to perform a hybrid procedure that combines noninvasive angioplasty, used to open blocked arteries, with a minimally invasive coronary bypass procedure. VIDEO: When Jay Potter was diagnosed with a severe heart murmur, Dr. Didier Loulmet treated him using minimally invasive robotic heart surgery. This approach restores blood flow to a patient’s heart through previously clogged arteries without having to cut through the chest bone or place the patient on a heart–lung machine. Our robotic surgical team includes Dr. Didier F. Loulmet Dr. Eugene A. Grossi Dr. Loulmet performed, along with Professor Alain Carpentier, the first robotic mitral valve repair procedure in 1998. He also performed the first totally endoscopic robotic coronary artery bypass graft surgery. He is a pioneer in the development of robotic cardiac procedures. Dr. Grossi is a leader in the development of minimally invasive mitral valve repair and one of the earliest investigators of robotically assisted mitral valve repair techniques. To make an appointment or learn more about our services, please call 212-263-2329 Stroke Treatment Outcomes at NYU Langone Doctors at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Center act quickly after diagnosing a stroke . Within four and a half hours of the first symptoms, people who have a blood clot in an artery supplying blood to the brain may receive a clot-busting medication , also known as thrombolytic therapy. This is administered through a vein. Our experts from NYU Langone’s can also begin more advanced treatment, such as removal of a brain clot, as needed. Learn more about stroke treatment and outcomes at NYU Langone, which is certified by The Joint Commission as a Comprehensive Stroke Center. Rate of Treatment with Thrombolytic Therapy More people are treated with thrombolytic therapy at NYU Langone when compared with other hospitals as a whole in New York State and other hospitals that are certified as comprehensive stroke centers by The Joint Commission. Time to Treatment with Thrombolytic Therapy For every minute the brain is deprived of blood due to a blockage, 2 million brain cells are lost. Therefore, it is best for patients to receive thrombolytic therapy as quickly as possible—ideally less than 60 minutes after arriving at the emergency room. The average time to treatment for patients at NYU Langone is 35 minutes. Time to Treatment with Clot Retrieval Several randomized trials have demonstrated improved neurological outcomes when patients receive thrombolytic therapy in combination with a clot retrieval procedure , in which the clot that is blocking blood flow to the brain is removed. This is done using a series of catheters that are inserted into an artery with X-ray guidance. It is best to start treatment as soon as possible—ideally less than 90 minutes after arriving at the emergency room. The median time to treatment, meaning an artery is punctured to begin the clot retrieval, at NYU Langone is 71 minutes. Restoration of Blood Flow from a Blockage Successfully removing a blood clot through clot retrieval restores blood flow to the brain. Clinical trials have shown that patients who have blood flow restored have better outcomes and less disability after a stroke. NYU Langone experts have successfully restored blood flow in more patients when compared with other hospitals in  New York State as a whole, and other hospitals certified as comprehensive stroke centers by The Joint Commission. 212-263-7149 Family & Lifestyle Support If you or a relative has been diagnosed with a heart rhythm condition that runs in the family, doctors at NYU Langone’s Inherited Arrhythmia Program can provide treatment and VIDEO: Doctors at the Inherited Arrhythmia Program provide treatment and support for patients and their families. A genetic heart rhythm disorder, also known as an inherited arrhythmia, can be diagnosed at any age. Some people first learn of their condition after experiencing the symptoms of an irregular heartbeat, which include heart palpitations, fainting, and heart attack. Others are diagnosed after genetic testing confirms they carry the same gene that caused a relative’s abnormal heart rhythm. can also be a sign of an inherited arrhythmia, especially in people who do not have coronary artery disease. Our program, part of the , is one of the most established and experienced programs for people with inherited arrhythmias. Our electrophysiologists, genetic counselors, genetic researchers, and nurse practitioners coordinate with teams throughout NYU Langone to ensure you receive the highest level of cardiovascular care. We provide skilled, advanced care for people with all forms of arrhythmia. Diagnosing Inherited Arrhythmia There are many types of inherited arrhythmias, and they generally fall into two categories: channelopathies and cardiomyopathies. Channelopathies are conditions that can lead to potentially life-threatening heart rhythms. The following are some examples of channelopathies: QT-related syndromes, including long or short QT, that trigger arrhythmia when the heart speeds up, such as during emotional stress, exercise, and extreme surprise, or during sleep when the heart rate slows Brugada syndrome, in which arrhythmia is typically triggered during sleep or rest catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT), which causes abnormally fast and irregular heart rhythm in response to physical activity such as exercise or sports idiopathic ventricular fibrillation that occurs spontaneously and has no known cause Cardiomyopathies, including , arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC), and dilated cardiomyopathy, cause the heart muscle to thicken or dilate and be less effective at pumping blood through the body. Many times, the first presentation of a cardiomyopathy is an abnormal heart rhythm. Proper diagnosis of inherited heart disorders requires clinical expertise, skilled imaging technology, and advanced genetic testing. After we identify the genetic cause of your condition, we determine the best treatment based on your symptoms, age, and lifestyle. Treatment for Inherited Arrhythmia After you are diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia, our team determines the treatment best suited for your particular type. For some, lifestyle changes, medication, and routine follow-up appointments are sufficient to maintain heart health. Others require intervention such as a catheter ablation, in which heat is used to eliminate cells in the heart that are triggering an abnormal heart rhythm, or an implantable device. This can be a pacemaker, through which gentle electrical pulses are used to maintain regular heart rhythm, or an implantable cardioverter defibrillator, which instantly delivers a dose of electric current to revert the heart to normal rhythm and may be required for protection against sudden cardiac arrest. If your condition is best treated with a , we coordinate with specialists at NYU Langone’s Our team of electrophysiologists and genetic specialists pinpoint the cause of your arrhythmia and provide the necessary treatment. Lior Jankelson Director, Inherited Arrhythmia Program Director, Heart Rhythm Center Anthony Aizer Associate Director, Heart Rhythm Center Douglas S. Holmes Chirag R. Barbhaiya Scott A. Bernstein Thomas Bustros David S. Park Michael Spinelli 9 Our program is accredited by the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association as a Center of Excellence. We provide ongoing care for people born with heart defects. We provide transplant care for people experiencing heart failure. hosts free educational events throughout the year through our Heart Health Lecture Series. Launched in 2015 under the direction of cardiologist Dennis A. Goodman, MD , director of integrative medicine at NYU Langone’s Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology , this patient education initiative focuses on helping you take control of your heart health and work toward a healthier future. Presented via webinar, the Heart Health Lecture Series covers topics such as sleep, nutrition, exercise, , and stress. The series also highlights the latest information related to the conditions that increase cardiovascular disease risk such as , autoimmune conditions, thrombotic disorders, and . Our expert speakers present the latest clinical information on scientific research, offer suggestions for better health, and provide dedicated time to answer questions from webinar participants. Upcoming Heart Health Lectures Registration is required for our webinars, which are free. For more information about upcoming programs, or to subscribe to our events calendar, email Pregnancy and Your Heart Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to increased risk of developing heart disease after childbirth. The cardiovascular complications associated with high-risk pregnancies may include high blood pressure, pre-eclampsia or gestational diabetes. Adverse pregnancy outcomes are lifelong risk factors for cardiovascular disease. The postpartum period and the first decade after giving birth are important periods for optimizing cardiovascular health and preventing future cardiovascular disease. Join NYU Langone cardiologist Anaïs Hausvater, MD , for the latest information on pregnancy and heart health. Dr. Hausvater will discuss the importance of personalized screening and treatment approaches to ensure that pregnancies at risk for cardiovascular complications are properly managed to optimize the health of the mother and child. Cardiologist and moderator Dennis A. Goodman, MD, will facilitate the discussion and questions from the audience. Date: Wednesday, November 20, 2024 Time: 5:00–6:00 PM Register Online: https://bit.ly/40mJEHt Genetics in Heart Disease and Cancer The rapidly advancing field of genetics now offers patients insights into their risk for various heart conditions and certain types of cancers. Join NYU Langone clinical geneticist Meenakshi Sigireddi, MD, and NYU Langone cardiologist William L. Blau, MD , for an engaging discussion on the current landscape and future of genetic testing. Our experts will highlight the latest advancements in genetic testing for assessing risks of cardiovascular disease and cancer, two of the primary causes of death in the United States. Cardiologist Dennis A. Goodman, MD, will serve as moderator, guiding the discussion and addressing questions from the audience. Date: Tuesday, December 10, 2024 Time: 5:00–6:00PM https://bit.ly/3UB4xLA Watch Our Previous Lectures Select Heart Health Lectures can be viewed on NYU Langone’s YouTube channel. Visit our Heart Health Lecture Series playlist to view our lecture video library and to check for new content. Examples of our lectures include the following: Eating Well in a Time Crunch Cholesterol: The Good, The Bad, and Lipoprotein (a) The Environment’s Role in Cardiovascular Disease Women’s Heart Health: Understanding Your Risk Register for Information and Updates Prevention Pulse , the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease newsletter, provides information on important topics in heart health as well as recipes, event information, program updates, and the latest clinical and scientific research news. To subscribe to our quarterly digital newsletter and receive Heart Health Lecture Series announcements, please send your name and email address to Frequently Asked Questions About Heart Health Experts from NYU Langone’s answer common questions about heart health and preventing heart attacks. What is the link between cholesterol and heart disease? Many years of scientific studies have shown a close relationship between cardiovascular disease and cholesterol levels. Your doctor may request a lipid profile—a test that shows the levels of LDL (bad cholesterol), HDL (good cholesterol), and triglycerides in your blood—to assess your risk for developing If my body makes its own cholesterol, why does my diet matter? When we measure cholesterol levels in your blood, what we see is a combination of what your body makes and what you eat. Because you cannot control how much cholesterol your body produces, other than with medications, restricting saturated fat in your diet can have a major impact on lowering your cholesterol. Should I focus on lowering my dietary cholesterol or saturated fat? Limiting saturated and trans fats in your diet has the biggest impact on lowering your cholesterol. Restricting fatty meats, choosing low-fat or nonfat dairy products, and avoiding butter and margarine play a major role in helping to maintain healthy cholesterol levels. In addition, a diet high in fiber, particularly soluble fiber, can lower cholesterol levels significantly. Weight loss also can be an important part of your overall strategy to lower your cholesterol, including triglycerides, which should stay low, too. If my cholesterol is less than 200mg/dl, should I worry about heart disease? Even though you have low total cholesterol levels you can still be at an increased risk for heart disease, especially if you have a family history of vascular disease that begins at an early age. Your risk also increases if you have metabolic syndrome, which is defined by having three or more of the following: abdominal obesity, meaning your waist is more than 40 inches for men or 34 inches for women blood pressure over 130/85 triglycerides over 150 HDL less than 50 in a woman or less than 40 in a man high blood sugar levels Can taking fish oil capsules lower my cholesterol? No. Fish oil has the ability to lower triglycerides, but not LDL cholesterol. However, there may be other potentially protective effects from fish oil, such as making your blood less likely to clot. After you have a heart attack, is it too late to benefit from cholesterol-lowering drugs? No, it’s never too late to benefit from cholesterol-lowering drugs. After you’ve had a heart attack, using cholesterol-lowering drugs such as statins may significantly lower your chances of having another heart attack or . If you have not had a heart attack, but are at increased risk of heart disease or show early evidence of plaque in your arteries, a cholesterol-lowering drug may help prevent a heart attack or stroke. If I don't smoke and my cholesterol is within normal limits, what impact does my family history of heart attack have on my risk? Having a family history of a first-degree relative—your mother, father, or sibling—with a heart attack before age 55 for a man or 65 for a woman is a major risk factor for developing heart disease and stroke. Keep in mind that low cholesterol levels may not be what they seem—low HDL, the “protective” cholesterol, may keep your overall levels down, but that is not beneficial. Other factors such as diet, exercise, and smoking are also of significant importance to those with a family history of heart disease. If I am on a statin, should I worry about a high-fat diet? Yes. Although statins lower your cholesterol and reduce your risk of a heart attack, studies have shown that the amount of saturated fat you eat correlates with the progression of plaque buildup in your arteries, which can cause a heart attack or stroke. There is also evidence that high fat levels in your blood after eating a meal high in saturated fat can interfere with some of the protective function of the cells that line your arteries. Should I worry about possible liver damage from taking statin medications? The frequency of liver problems with statin therapy is actually quite low. Less than 1 percent of people have to stop taking statins because they develop liver problems. Long-term trials have confirmed the safety of statins—the latest guidelines do not suggest a need to monitor people on statins who have normal liver function. In addition, in some cases where there is evidence of fat deposits in the liver, statin therapy may actually improve liver function tests. Doctors at the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program use early detection to identify people who are at high risk of developing hypertension , heart disease, and after childbirth. Make an Appointment To make an appointment with the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, please call Your chance of developing a cardiovascular condition rises after having a high-risk . A high-risk pregnancy can include complications such as gestational diabetes , high blood pressure, or preeclampsia. Our preventive cardiologists and maternal–fetal medicine doctors can create a care plan for you that uses prevention strategies and personalized treatments to support your heart health after pregnancy. High-Risk Pregnancy and Cardiovascular Risk After Childbirth Pregnancy offers insights into a person’s long-term cardiovascular health. Despite having no other risk factors for heart disease, people who are pregnant and have complications are at a higher risk of developing postpartum cardiovascular disease. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 20 hospitals in the nation for obstetrics and gynecology and the No. 2 hospital in the nation for cardiology and heart surgery. In the United States, cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death during pregnancy and following childbirth. Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to developing heart disease after childbirth. High blood pressure alone during pregnancy puts a person at increased risk for chronic high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular conditions during the postpartum period and at an earlier age than expected. These complications can arise within a decade of having a baby. These risks are even higher in Black people, and our doctors are committed to creating a supportive care environment to address these challenges. Personalized Cardiovascular Care After Pregnancy At the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, our doctors develop a personalized treatment plan to support your heart health after pregnancy. Patients are referred to our program three months after delivering a baby. At this point, elevated cholesterol, increased blood volume, and other biological factors unique to pregnancy are no longer present. Our doctors monitor and manage high blood pressure and lipid disorders, such as high cholesterol , that contribute to early and stroke. We also treat postpartum cardiomyopathy, or weakening of the heart muscle, which is a rare complication that can develop in the last month of pregnancy and up to five months after delivery. Our care plans for postpartum cardiovascular conditions may include the following strategies: stress reduction weight management nutritional counseling physical activity getting enough sleep taking medication If you are planning to conceive again, we offer consultations beforehand to optimize your cardiovascular health. In addition, we partner with doctors at NYU Langone’s Cardio-Obstetrics Program to provide education about heart health and create preventive care plans for people who are currently pregnant or want to become pregnant for the first time. To make an appointment with a provider at the Postpartum Cardiovascular Health Program, please call The care team from the Cardio-Rheumatology Program helps people who are living with and rheumatic conditions lower their risk of , heart attack, and U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for rheumatology. Psoriasis, an autoimmune condition that affects the skin, and rheumatic conditions such as psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus can lead to inflammation throughout the body, including the cardiovascular system. This inflammation can contribute to , abnormal cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and plaque buildup in the coronary arteries, called atherosclerosis. As plaque forms, these vessels narrow, increasing a person’s cardiovascular risk. Doctors from the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, part of the , provide personalized risk assessments and encourage evaluation even for people who believe they are too young to develop heart disease. People with psoriasis and rheumatic conditions can have up to a five-fold increased risk of heart disease compared to people without these diseases, and they tend to develop atherosclerosis at earlier ages than the general population. During your cardiovascular risk assessment, we perform cholesterol blood pressure blood sugar testing and, when needed, cardiac imaging. This includes carotid artery ultrasound cardiac calcium scoring to evaluate plaque buildup in the carotid and coronary arteries, respectively. We also talk with you about your lifestyle, including the role and exercise play in improving your heart health. Based on our conversations, the testing