Real Estate Development and Facilities 411 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg 39.40. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 40.41. Motor Control Centers See Electrical Design Guidelines 41.42. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Provide two VFDs one lead and one lag unless part of a fan array system see Air Handling Unit subsection for fan array VFDs. VFDs shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. All conduits in a controlled enclosure or electrical enclosure shall have sealed conduits. VFDs shall not be installed under any piping trim or joints. If VFD is installed under piping due to physical install constraints, NEMA 4 or 6 shall be used. All locations of VFDs that are below piping shall be approved by Facilities Operations. Harmonic Filtering is required on all variable speed drives. Design engineer to discuss with Facilities Management prior to design if active or passive harmonic filtering to be required. Field Testing on all VFDs powering 25hp motors and larger shall be provided and confirmed that Total Harmonic Distortion does not exceed . At the point of common connection, current Total Harmonic Distortion shall not exceed . NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 412 2023 Startup and setup shall be done by the current NYU Langone VFD vendor. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. Duct seal putty shall be used on all conduit connections to air handling VFDs. Do not select VFDs with a Bluetooth option. VFDs that are backed up by emergency power shall be selected and programmed to ride through a voltage dip, manual switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa), and ride through an automatic switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa). Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. Yaskawa Electric America b.c. Danfoss 42.43. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 43.44. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. For piping within technology space, no piping shall be provided in the technology space unless it is required for equipment within the room. All piping that is in the technology room must not be routed over technology equipment. All valves and metering associated with piping must have a drip pan located underneath with water detection. Pro press can be considered on a case by case basis. Discuss this request with NYULH Engineering prior to design. a. Mechanical Couplings for Grooved Pipe 1) Grooved piping shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and shall be based on a project by project basis prior to its use in design. b. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 413 2023 44.45. Pressure Regulating Valves/Stations High, Low, Medium pressure steam pipe gaskets are to be graphite type. Flexseal gaskets will not be accepted. All steam station pneumatic lines must match the size of the controller’s pneumatic connection and be run as copper hard piping, soft tubing not accepted. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Leslie 2) Fairchild 3) Fische 4) Circor 5) Warren Controls b. Water 1) Leslie 2) Cla Val 3) Watts 45.46. Pumps All pumps shall be premium efficiency. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Pumps shall be provided with either a strainer or suction diffusers with drain. Pump trim shall not have a balancing valve if pump will be provided with a VFD. Piping and pumps are to be independently supported. Spring type isolators on piping shall be recommended by acoustical consultant. If no consultant is on project, all piping within 50 feet of pump shall have spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. Approved Manufacturers: a. Horizontal Split, End Suction and In Line 1) Armstrong 2) Aurora 3) Bell & Gossett 4) Gould 5) Peerless 6) Weinman 7) Grundfos NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 414 2023 b. Fuel Oil 1) IMO 2) Viking 3) Simplex 46.47. Radiant Heating Systems Unit shall be supplied with a wall thermostat and a manually operated on off switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ceiling 1) Rittling 2) Runtal b. Floor 1) Aero Tech 2) Airtex 3) Aztec 4) Uponor 47.48. Refrigerant Monitoring Systems Relay outputs for alarms and control shall be provided to connect to BMS. The unit shall also be provided with visual and audible alarms at the panel. Monitoring system shall have multi point capabilities. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mine Safety Appliances Company (MSA) 48.49. Sound Traps Sound traps shall only be installed if required per code for a maximum NC level of a room. Approved Manufacturers: a. I.A.C. (Industrial Acoustics Co.) b. Dynasonics c. Vibro Acoustics d. Price 49.50. Steam Traps See also Orifice steam traps Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Sarco NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 415 2023 50.51. Steam Piping a. All steam traps shall be steamgard venturi orifice type wherever possible. The design engineer shall review each trap with the manufacturer to confirm if orifice type traps can be used. b. Steam traps shall be provided at all low points, end of mains, riser heals and at equipment connections. Base of drip legs to be provided with separate blowdown valves. c. Ensure all components of the details are installed (unions, shutoff valve, check valve, etc.) d. All piping from coils shall be pitched to the inlet of the condensate pump (no trapped piping). e. Drip legs shall be provided periodically for long runs of pipe at intervals between 100 to 125 feet. f. Drip legs shall be no less than half the size of the pipe it serves. g. Blow off valves to be provided at all drip legs and at the base of all risers. h. Flash tank trap shall be located 6 inches above the water level of the tank. Flash tanks to be provided with F&T trap. i. Test t shall be provided on all condensate piping downstream of steam trap and upstream of condensate shut off / check valve. j. Warmup bypass shall be provided for all steam valves 6 inches and larger. k. High pressure steam shutoff valves at the incoming service to each building shall be provided with two shutoff valves for safety purposes. l. All steam piping shall be insulated. m. Condensate pumps and flash tanks shall be vented to atmosphere. n. Condensate piping exposed to the outdoors shall be heat traced. o. Outdoor steam and condensate piping shall have two layers of insulation. p. High pressure steam shutoff valves shall be high performance OS&Y valves (not butterfly valves). q. Prior to startup A/E team and construction team shall review NYULH Steam Insulation Quality Control Checklist obtain checklist from Facilities Management. 51.52. Strainers Strainers installed on steam piping shall not be installed in the vertical direction (facing towards ground). Steam strainers shall be installed to be in line with the horizontal piping such that when looking at the pipe and strainer, the clean out shall be facing directly towards you. Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 416 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Fabrotech b. Hoffman c. McAlear Mfg. Co. d. Metraflex e. Mueller f. Sarco g. Titan h. Yarway 52.53. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality stickers. In all MERs, pipe insulation and conduits shall have colored PVC jacketing per the colors below. Colored PVC jacketing shall be installed on all piping 2” and above. Approved PVC Jacketing Manufacturers: a. Johns Manville b. Proto c. Speedline d. P.I.C. Plastics Chilled Water PrimaryLight Cyan Chilled Water SecondaryLight Cyan CompressorsLight Gray Condenser WaterYellow Domestic Water ColdPea Green Domestic Water HotMedium Gray ElectricalBlue FansDark Green GlycolOff White RefrigerantWhite Reheat WaterMedium Green Sprinkler and StandpipeRed SteamMarigold Steam CondensateRed Orange Floor GuardDark Gray Hot Water HeatingYellow Valves and TrimBlack Waste LineDark Brown NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 417 2023 Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded as follows: Fire Quenching Liquids White on Red TEXT Toxic and Corrosive Fluids Black on Orange TEXT Flammable Fluids Black on Yellow TEXT Combustible Fluids White on Brown TEXT Potable, Cooling, Boiler Feed and other Water White on Green TEXT Compressed Air White on Blue TEXT Steam Black on Yellow TEXT Chilled Water White on Cyan TEXT Hot Water / Reheat Hot Water White on Red TEXT Condensate Black on Orange TEXT Fuel Oil White on Brown TEXT Duct Labels shall be installed every 20 feet and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 4 inches high. Outside Air White on Blue TEXT General Exhaust Black on White TEXT Toilet Exhaust Black on Orange TEXT Return Air Black on Yellow TEXT Supply Air White on Green TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 inch diameter or square, brass, aluminum or stainless steel with letters minimum 1 inch in height. Lettering shall be viewable from a distance of 10 feet. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 418 2023 54. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) Refer to the Miscellaneous subsection within the Architectural section of these Design Guidelines for all engineering requirements. 53.55. Unit Heaters Unit shall be supplied with a unit mounted thermostat. Approved Manufacturers: a. Electric 1) Berko 2) Brasch 3) Chromalox 4) Indeeco 5) Dayton b. Steam/Water 1) Modine 2) Rittling 3) Sterling 54.56. Valves Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. For Manhattan Main Campus: All campus primary chilled water valves to be 300lb rated. Secondary chilled water valves shall be designed based upon their designed system pressure. Primary CHW service and steam service shall all be stainless steel ball valves. All system pressures shall be specified on design drawings. Ball valves (2 ½” maximum) must be used for manual isolation on all chilled water, secondary water, reheat water and radiation water systems. Butterfly valves are to be used for this purpose on larger piping (3” and above). All valves and piping systems shall be designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves 3” and larger shall be pressure checked and bench tested at the factory. Factory shall provide a certified report based on testing. Testing shall show that valve can hold rated pressure based on atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. Any valve that is above 7 feet shall be provided with a chain wheel for manipulation of valve from the floor. All high pressure steam isolation valves shall have manual warmup valves for startup. High Pressure steam valves shall be high performance OS&Y gate valves butterfly valves are not allowed. Valves shall be rated to 500 degrees F. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 419 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Balanced Check 1) Fabrotech 2) Hager 3) Mueller b. Balancing Valves (Water) 1) T & A 2) Armstrong 3) Autoflow 4) Flow Design 5) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 6) Bell and Gosset c. Ball Type 1) Apollo 2) Jamesbury 3) Milwaukee 4) Rockwell d. Butterfly 1) DeZurik 2) Flow Seal 3) Bray 4) Jamesbury 5) Keystone 6) W.K.M. e. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each expansion tank, plate and frame heat exchanger or any pressurized water vessel, and as required by Code. Relief valve shall match maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment. Relief piping shall be sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to floor not floor drain. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Consolidated 3) Farris 4) Fulflo Specialties Co. 5) Kunkle 6) Lunkenheimer 7) Watts 8) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 9) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 420 2023 f. Soft Seated 1) Bray 2) DeZurik 3) Keystone 4) Milwaukee g. Swing Check 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Powell 6) Rockwell Nordstrom 7) Stockham 8) Walworth h. Globe Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Nordstrom 6) Powell i. Plug Valves (Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 3) Nordstrom 4) Walworth j. Plug Valves (Non Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Homestead 3) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. k. Solenoid Valves 1) ASCO l. Combination Valves 1) Victaulic m. Gate Valves 1) Crane NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 421 2023 55.57. Variable Air Volume Variable Air Volume Boxes shall have pressure independent control. All VAVs shall have a local disconnect switch. Unit shall be BMS controlled with read/write access through Modbus or Bacnet. Local thermostat shall be provided local manipulation of a +/ 2.5 degree Fahrenheit differential. All VAVs shall be marked with individual equipment ID’s. This shall be specified on design drawings as well. Design drawings equipment schedule for VAVs shall be specific and general based on size. Supply boxes with reheat coils shall have an access door upstream and downstream of the coil for cleaning purposes. Supply boxes without reheat coils shall have an access door for the damper. Exhaust boxes shall have an access door upstream of the cross flow sensors for cleaning purposes. There shall be a maximum of 4 rooms per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the contractor can install flex hoses to circulate and then remove so that there is no possibility of leaving a bypass open. The hose bibs can also be used for high point vents or drains. The hot water return piping shall have an isolation ball valve downstream of the balancing valve. Inlets to VAV at medium pressure ductwork shall not exceed 0.2” ESP or 2,000 FPM. Removable velocity wing sensor shall be provided if Anemostat is selected as the VAV box. Approved Manufacturers Non Critical Applications: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus Approved Manufacturers Critical Applications: a. LCS 56.58. Variable Frequency Drives See Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) subsection NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 422 2023 57.59. Variable Refrigerant Flow System (VRF) If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Outdoor Unit (Condenser) All variable refrigerant flow system (VRF) components shall be of the same manufacturer. The unit shall be factory assembled and prewired with all necessary electronic and refrigerant controls. The unit internal controls shall interface with the base building, building management system (BACnet, Modbus, etc.). All refrigerant and gas lines shall be insulated with Armorflex (1/2” or more). The unit shall be provided with a minimum of the following safety devices; high pressure switch, control circuit fuses, crankcase heaters, fusible plug, overload relay, inverter overload protector, thermal compressor protectors, thermal fan motor protectors, overcurrent protection for the inverter and anti short cycling timers. In the event of power failure the system shall store all settings and programs so reprogramming is not required. The system shall automatically restart operation after power failure. The compressor shall be hermetic digital scroll and the inverter shall permit a capacity control range from to . The outdoor fan shall be direct drive variable speed propeller type and configured for vertical discharge airflow. The fan motor shall have inherent protection and have permanently lubricated bearings. The condenser coil shall be copper tubes with mechanically bonded aluminum fins and aluminum end casings. The coils shall be applied with a corrosion resistant coating. Ensure refrigerant piping is brazed (do not use flux when brazing copper to copper refrigerant piping) Branch Controller The branch controller shall have sufficient number of ports as required for connection to zoned equipment. The unit shall contain piping, valves, and controls to divert refrigerant controlling each port to operate in either a heating or cooling mode. Units shall be completely factory assembled, internally piped and wired. Branch controllers shall have factory installed control boards that interface with the VRF equipment controls and shall perform all functions to effectively and efficiently control simultaneous heat and cooling. Isolation valves shall be field supplied and installed for ease of service to the branch controller without evacuating the entire system refrigerant charge. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 423 2023 Indoor Fan Coil Units The indoor fan coil unit shall be factory assembled, wired and run tested. Contained within the unit shall be all factory wiring, piping, electronic modulating linear expansion device, control circuit board and fan motor. The indoor fan coil unit shall have an auto restart function. Indoor fan coil unit and refrigerant pipes shall be charged with dehydrated air before shipment from the factory. The indoor fan coil unit shall be direct drive type with a minimum of three (3) fan speeds. The fan motor shall be ECM type. A condensate drain and pan shall be installed under the coil with leak detection device (in instances where condensate cannot be piped to drain). Provide a factory installed / wired condensate pump with integral check valve. Provide wall mounted programmable thermostat for each indoor fan coil unit (unless multiple units will be grouped and control to one (1) thermostat). Ensure all indoor fan coil unit DIP switches (local at each unit) are set to monitor room/space temperature (ceiling mounted units typically set to read return air temperature). Approved Manufacturers a. Daikin b. Mitsubishi c. Toshiba d. LG 58.60. Vibration Isolators Vibration isolators are to be installed on all rotating equipment including fans, air handling units, chillers, cooling towers, pumps, etc. Piping shall have braided vibration isolators unless piping is isolated with spring type isolators within a minimum of 50 feet of pump. All piping in a mechanical plant shall be isolated with spring type isolators. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Amber Booth c. Kinnetics Noise Control, Inc. d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings and Controls 59.61. Water Filtration Sand filtration shall be installed on Condenser Water. All other systems shall have pot feeders. Sand filters shall have backwash capabilities. All water filtration to be capable of filtering a minimum of of total flow. Pot feeders to have 5 micron filtration with a coupon rack. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 424 2023 All water filtration shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ameri Water b. Chemworks c. Diamond Water Systems, Inc. 60.62. Waterproof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Link Seal b. Zurn 61.63. Water Source Heat Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. AAON b. Carrier c. Mitsubishi 62.64. Water Treatment/Cleaning Open loop systems shall have an automatic chemical feed with integral controls. Closed loop systems shall have a manual bypass feeder system. All chemicals are to be recommended by the water treatment system manufacturer. Chemicals shall be compatible with the piping system and components. A water analysis shall be performed to determine quality of water. Any new equipment or piping needs to be pre cleaned to remove the oils of manufacture, which can be accomplished with an alkaline phosphate cleaner supplied by the water treatment supplier. It is necessary that all valves and fan coil units in the system be opened to flow during the cleaning process. The cleaning process shall be as follows: • All coils shall be bypassed for the first two hours of a flush and then opened to flow through the coils for the rest of the flush. • System shall be filled with fresh water and then circulated with all process and booster pumps running. • Alkaline phosphate detergent shall be added following the manufacturer’s instructions concerning the correct dosage. It may be necessary to add de foamer in some instances. • System shall be circulated for a minimum of four hours, and hourly flushed all low point drains to remove any suspended solids that may have been displaced. • Upon completion of the cleaning, system shall be drained and refilled with fresh water. Fresh water shall be circulated for 20 minutes and then bled heavily until the water is clear and free of foam. Flushing shall continue until the ortho phosphate level is within 1 PPM of that of the city water and the conductivity is close to that of the make up water. If the flushing occurs over an extended period in time (more than 24 hours), the flush water should be treated water. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 425 2023 • The system shall be immediately sterilized by maintaining a minimum of 1 PPM as free halogen for one hour and then treated to passivate the clean metallurgies. Systems containing copper should be treated with azole levels of 20 PPM as a minimum. Molybdenum should be used to passivate mild steel piping by achieving a minimum of 50 PPM. The recommended inhibitor levels must be maintained for 24 hours. Systems that are having piping added that cannot be isolated for alkaline phosphate cleaning must have a surfactant added for 48 hours. Systems that are having galvanized towers added must undergo a white rust passivation step for the first 90 days of operation. Flushing and cleaning is allowed through new construction house pumps. Flushing and cleaning is not allowed through existing house pumps. It shall be the responsibility of the flushing and cleaning contractor to provide a pump sized properly for the system to be flushed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 426 2023 G. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Remove low pressure duct leakage testing. 2 Change cooling / heating coil construction from Copper/Copper/Stainless to Aluminum in all non Article 28 spaces. 23 Remove requirement for each coil to have a freeze stat in multiple coil units and only provide one long freezestat in all non Article 28 spaces. 4 Allow double actuators. 35 Allow triple duty valves in off site locations. 6 Substitute venturi type orifice traps to F&T type in off site locations. 47 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 58 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. 9 Change cooling / heating coil fins from copper to aluminum. END OF MECHANICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 427 2023 3. ELECTRICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. I. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the New York State Building Code and New York City Electrical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. All connections to be done with double hole lugs (long barrel) and utilize compression type copper connectors. If this is not possible, the design scheme shall be discussed and approved by Facilities Operations. II. Emergency Power a. Emergency Power shall be provided per NFPA Standards, Joint Commission Standards, CMS Standards and New York City Electrical Code requirements. Emergency power to be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. III. Design criteria for sizing power risers and (connected load) electric panels a. Administration/Office: 5.0 W/sq.ft. b. Clinical Office/Exam: 5.0 W/sq.ft. c. Storage: 1.5 W/sq.ft. d. Laboratories (Basic Research): 50 W/sq.ft. e. Support Areas: 12.5 W/sq.ft. f. Technology Rooms: 50 W/sq.ft. g. Procedure Rooms: 30 W/sq.ft. h. Specialty Rooms: 3 W/sq.ft. i. Offices: 6 W/sq.ft. j. Seminar and Classrooms: 4 W/sq.ft. k. Lobby: 6 W/sq.ft. l. Mechanical Rooms: 2.5 W/sq.ft. (Lighting and Small Power) m. Lounge/Waiting Area: 4 W/sq.ft. n. Café/Cafeteria: 15 W/sq.ft. o. Kitchen: 20 W/sq.ft. IV. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 428 2023 b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. excess attic stock shall be provided for integrated, architectural LED fixtures (i.e. fixtures that need to be replaced entirely after failure). V. Distribution a. All power loads, such as elevators, motor control centers, etc., shall operate at 480/277 volts and shall be connected to distribution switchboards with single or multiple conduit and cable feeders. b. Unless serving specialty equipment/lighting, receptacles as well as fluorescent and incandescent lighting shall be wired to 120 or 277 volt circuits. c. All conduits shall be run concealed in finished areas and exposed in Machine Rooms and Electrical Rooms. d. All lighting circuits shall emanate from lighting panels and power circuits from power panels. Lighting and Power circuits shall not be mixed in the same panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 429 2023 C. Electrical Naming Convention COORDINATE NOMENCLATURE WITH NYU LANGONE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER PRIOR TO LABELING OR RE LABELING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATIONS. I. Generator Panel Naming Scheme Example: PPH G4 HCC CE1 PPH G4 HCC CE1Panel #LocationN,S,E,WA,B,C,DFloor LevelBuilding NameEB Energy BuildingSB Science BuildingKP Kimmel PavilionTH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care CenterSKB Skirball660 660 1st AveGBH Greenberg HallSML SmilowMIL MilhauserGenerator PlantG0 Reserved for Future UseG1 Kimmel PavilionG2 SkirballG3 Science BuildingG4 HCCG5 SmilowG6 Energy BuildingG7 660G8 GBHG9 Outpatient Surgical CenterG10 VZ 30th StreetPanel TypeDPH Distribution Panelboard480V / 277VPPH Power Panel480V / 277VLPH Lighting Panel480V / 277VLP Lighting Panel120V / 208VPP Power Panel120V / 208VRP Receptacle Panel120V / 208V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 430 2023 II. Normal Power Panel Naming Scheme Example: SS PES HCC CE1 SS PES HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery Primary Electric Service Normal Panel Type SSH Service Switchboard 460V / 265V DPH Distribution Panelboard 460V / 265V LPH Lighting Panel 460V / 265V PPH Power Panel 460V / 265V SS Service Switchboard 120V / 208V DP Distribution Panelboard 120V / 208V LP Lighting Panel 120V / 208V PP Power Panel 120V / 208V RP Receptacle Panel 120V / 208V BD Bus Duct DESS Double Ended Substation NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 431 2023 III. UPS Naming Scheme Example: TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B1 TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B 1 Panel # System A or B Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street UPS System Number 1 HCC Cellar 2 Smilow Ground Floor Telephone Switch Room 3 Tisch Ground Floor MUX Room 4 Tisch Ground Floor Communications Room 5 Energy Building 6 Kimmel Pavilion 7 South TER/DR 8 Science Building UPS Panel Types TDP Technology Distribution Board 120/280V TPP Technology Power Panel 120/280V TDPH Technology Distribution Panel 480/277V MDSH Medical Distribution Switchboard 480/277V MDPH Medical Distribution Panel 480/277V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 432 2023 IV. Emergency Panel Naming Scheme Example: LS PP G4 61 HCC CE1 LS PP G4 61 HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street Panel Type DPH Distribution Panel 480/277V PPH Power Panel 480/277V LPH Lighting Panel 480/277V LP Lighting Panel