revenue$ 9,546,770 $ 8,337,715 $ 1,209,055 14.Operating expenses 8,796,816 7,651,460 1,145,356 15.Gain from operations$ $749,954 $ 686,255 $ 63,699 9.Operating margin %7.8.NYU Grossman Schools of MedicineOperating revenue$ 5,949,248 $ 5,195,114 $ 754,134 14.Operating expenses 6,252,614 5,468,848 783,766 14.Gain from operations$ (303,366)$ (273,734)$ (29,632)10.Operating margin % 5. 5.Results from OperationsNYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 9In January 2024, CMS issued a settlement payment to NYU Langone Hospitals totaling $122.3 million (the “CMS Settlement”) to remedy invalidated Outpatient Prospective Payment System 340B acquired drug payment policy for calendar years 2018 through September 2022. The CMS Settlement is recorded within Other Items, outside of the gain from operations but within the performance indicator on the Statement of Operations. Given both the materiality of the settlement payment as well as the time periods to which the settlement relates, including the settlement as part of net patient service revenue would distort fiscal year 2024 operating results. Accordingly, the revenues referenced above for the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, exclude the CMS Settle­ment.For the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone Health recorded total operating expenses of $13.7 billion: 60. salaries and benefits; 32. pharmaceutical, medical, and other supplies; 6. depreciation and amortization; and 1. interest. As compared to the twelve months ended August 31, 2023, total operating expenses increased by $1.7 billion or 14.. Management attributes the increase primarily to increases in salaries and wages as well as phar­macy costs and medical supplies, which were offset by increased pharmacy and patient service revenue, as described above.For the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, the increase in the change in net assets without donor restrictions was $890.5 million, primarily attributable to a gain from operations of $431.4 million, investment return of $208.5 million, the CMS settlement of $122.3 million, revenue recognized for FEMA capital awards totaling $50.4 million, net assets re­leased for capital expenditures of $38.7 million, actuarial gains from pension and post retirement plans of $13.2 million, and other items.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT10Summarized Balance SheetsAs of August 31, 2024, cash and investments totaled $5.0 billion, an increase of $317.4 million or 6. as compared to August 31, 2023. The increase in cash and investments from August 31, 2023 is primarily attributable to cash generated from operations of $1.0 billion, a $532.6 million increase from investment gains, and receipt of the CMS settlement payment of $122.3 million. These increases were partially offset by expenditures of $1.2 billion to sup­port NYU Langone Health’s capital investments. Assets limited as to use increased $234.9 million from $1.7 billion at August 31, 2023 to $1.9 billion at August 31, 2024, primarily attributable to growth in assets held by CCC550 from investment gains and new premiums invested, as well as investment gains and contributions of $78.7 million in 457(b) plan assets. This growth was partially offset by the release of funds held by the Bond Trustee for the DASNY Series 2020A tax exempt bonds to reimburse NYU Langone Hospitals for eligible capital costs incurred for the projects financed under the DASNY Series 2020A tax exempt bonds.The days revenue in patient accounts receivable (“Days in AR”) was 57 days as of August 31, 2024, which is an increase of 5 days since August 31, 2023. Management attributes this increase to growth in patient accounts re­ceivable, primarily driven by growth in net patient service revenue as previously described. Other assets decreased $32.5 million from $1,367.7 mil­lion at August 31, 2023 to $1,335.2 million at August 31, 2024. The decrease is primarily driven by a $50.4 million receivable recorded for two project worksheets from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) to reimburse eligible expenses related to the COVID 19 pandemic where funds were approved by FEMA for the reimbursement of submitted eligible expenses and trans­ferred to New York State. In October 2024, NYU Langone Health received a $48.6 million payment in satisfaction of one of the obligated project worksheets. While the COVID 19 public health emergency ended in May 2023, NYU Langone Health continues to pursue reimbursement of eligible operating expenses through the submission of additional FEMA project worksheets; however, future amounts awarded cannot be determined at this time. This increase is offset by a $31.5 million reduction in contribu­tions receivable, a $31.4 million goodwill write off, and a $9.6 million reduction in intercompany balances due from affiliated entities, and miscellaneous other items.NYU Langone HealthSummarized Balance Sheets(unaudited)(unaudited)($ in thousands)August 31, 2024August 31, 2023Assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,621,379 $ 403,339 Investments 3,427,087 4,327,721 Assets limited as to use 1,913,803 1,678,948 Patient accounts receivable, net 1,532,383 1,223,088 Operating lease right of use assets 1,572,334 1,497,096 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,718,126 9,323,599 Other assets 1,335,155 1,367,703 Total assets $ 21,120,267 $ 19,821,494 Liabilities and net assetsAccounts payable and accrued expenses $ 970,939 $ 803,480 Accrued salaries and related liabilities 842,420 827,207 Operating lease liabilities 1,743,553 1,647,855 Accrued pension and postretirement liabilities 357,702 402,538 Long term debt5,529,525 5,687,113 Other liabilities2,262,756 2,103,174 Total liabilities 11,706,895 11,471,367 Net assets 9,413,372 8,350,127 Total liabilities and net assets $ 21,120,267 $ 19,821,494 NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 11Affiliation with LICH and the FoundationAs noted above, LICH and the Foundation became affili­ated with NYU Langone Health in March 2022 when the NYULH System became the sole corporate member of LICH and the Foundation. Each of LICH and the Founda­tion remain separate corporations, responsible for their own respective liabilities and obligations, including their obligations with respect to the Town of Brookhaven Local Development Corporation Revenue Bonds, Long Island Community Hospital Project, Series 2020 (the “LICH Bonds”). In January 2023, NYU Langone Hospitals provid­ed an unsecured guaranty of the LICH Bonds (the “NYU Langone Guaranty”). The NYU Langone Guaranty is an unsecured, general obligation of NYU Langone Hospitals and is not secured by any obligation issued under the NYU Langone Hospitals Master Indenture. The Foundation’s guaranty of the LICH Bonds also remains in effect. LICH and the Foundation have no obligation with respect to the outstanding obligations of NYU Langone Hospitals.The Affiliation Agreement provides that NYULH System will make at least $100 million of capital investments (including information technology) at LICH. Through Au­gust 31, 2024, NYULH System has made $103.7 million in capital investments at LICH under the Affiliation. Since the Affiliation in March 2022, NYU Langone Health has helped LICH to augment staffing levels, implement new clinical services and surgical sub specialties intended to increase volume, and continue to build out a clinically integrated healthcare network in eastern Long Island, including ambulatory facilities and physician practices. The governing bodies of NYU Langone Hospitals, LICH, and the NYULH System have determined that implement­ing the full asset merger of LICH with and into NYU Lan­gone Hospitals will further enhance patient care. To that end, and as previously noted, on September 13, 2024, the CON application for the full asset merger of LICH with and into NYU Langone Hospitals was approved by the NYS DOH. Upon the merger, LICH will cease to exist as a sep­arate entity. The NYULH System will continue in its role as the sole member and passive parent of NYU Langone Hospitals, and NYU will continue to be the sole corporate member and passive parent of the NYULH System. The LICH campus will be doing business as NYU Langone Hospital Suffolk and will be operated as a division of NYU Langone Hospitals, along with the Kimmel Pavilion, Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, NYU Langone Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Long Island. Follow­ing the full asset merger of LICH, NYU Langone Health anticipates that the Foundation will continue to exist as a separate legal entity, with the NYULH System as its sole member, to support the mission of NYU Langone Hospi­tals and will continue to guarantee the outstanding LICH Bonds.In addition to this CON, an application was also submitted to the New York State Office of Addiction Services and Support (“OASAS”) for NYU Langone Hospitals to be­come the licensed operator of LICH’s existing substance abuse services. OASAS granted NYU Langone Hospitals contingent approval on September 12, 2024. An Easy Prior Approval Review application was also submitted for approval by the New York State Office of Mental Health for NYU Langone Hospitals to be able to provide mental health services at this location.Liquidity and InvestmentsNYU Langone Health maintains a laddered portfolio of U.S. Treasury bills, Certificates of Deposit, money market funds, and interest bearing cash balances to support operating cash flows while also optimizing yield. Cash and cash equiva­lents increased by $1.2 billion from August 31, 2023, arising from a strategic shift from U.S. Treasuries to cash deposits offering higher yields and the result of shortening the duration of investments in U.S. Treasuries to securities with ma­turities of 90 days or less. NYU Langone Health’s policy defines cash equivalents as highly liquid financial instruments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased. NYU Langone Health’s investments consist of only liquid secu­rities, including short term U.S. Treasury bills and publicly traded equities.In addition to the above sources of liquidity, NYU Langone Health, leveraging the credit of NYU Langone Hospitals, maintains five lines of credit at five commercial banks with an aggregate available balance of $718.8 million. As of August 31, 2024, no amounts were outstanding on these lines of credit. All five lines of credit reference the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as a benchmark.PhilanthropyNYU Langone Health performs fundraising and reports philanthropic contributions on a combined basis and received total cash contributions of $256.0 million in the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, of which $115.4 million was allocable to NYU Langone Hospitals, and $202.6 million in fiscal year 2023, of which $68.0 million was allocable to NYU Langone Hospitals.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT12Medical School PaymentsNYU Langone Hospitals and the NYULH System provide support for the clinical, research, and education missions of the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine, including costs related to the expansion of FGP clinical programs. For the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Lan­gone Hospitals and the NYULH System provided support of $1.2 billion, which is recorded in supplies and other expenses within the Statement of Operations. Of this to­tal, $926.4 million is in support of the clinical mission and the remaining $231.6 million supports the research and education missions. This is an increase of $29.5 million or 3. more than the comparable prior period of $896.9 million. The increase in the level of support is reflective of the growth of these missions. Support provided is recorded as an operating expense to the NYULH System and operating revenue to the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine which eliminate upon combination in the NYU Langone Health Statements of Operations.NYU Langone Hospitals views the strength and scale of the FGP as critical to the accomplishment of NYU Langone Hospitals’ quality and strategic goals. The FGP employs the physicians constituting 71. of the active medical staff of NYU Langone Hospitals, and NYU Lan­gone Hospitals believes that attracting and retaining the highest quality clinical staff depends in part on the vibran­cy of the research and teaching programs and the overall depth and scale of the FGP. The FGP has expanded into Long Island and other areas, and the historic level of sub­sidy to the FGP for joint program support has continued to grow. While establishing new practices and expanding existing practices has resulted in additional support costs, the associated physician recruitment and capital spend­ing will build a reliable network of high quality providers broadening the range of services available to the sur­rounding communities. Although NYU Langone Hospitals is not obligated to increase funding to the NYU Grossman Schools of Medi­cine, management anticipates that given the close inter­connection between NYU Langone Hospitals and the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine, and the importance of the FGP to NYU Langone Hospitals’ strategic plans, NYU Langone Hospitals may decide to increase future funding to the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine and will con­tinue to offset any deficit in the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine’s cash flows from operations. Management anticipates that cash flows for capital spending and other non operating needs will be funded through additional equity transfers from NYU Langone Hospitals to the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine. All such transfers would be made in accordance with the requirements of the NYU Langone Hospitals Master Indenture.In addition to the support described above, NYU Langone Hospitals has committed to provide annual mission sup­port to NYUGSOM for joint clinical, research, and teaching programs of $50.0 million per year. For the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals trans­ferred $50.0 million of the 2024 budgeted mission pay­ment to NYUGSOM.Major Construction ProjectsManagement is developing long range plans for NYU Langone Long Island that are currently anticipated to include de­velopment of a new inpatient hospital campus in Nassau County over the next ten years. This significant development is dependent upon site acquisition, as well as internal and external approvals, and is subject to market conditions and other factors. Plans for Long Island also include the development of other sites across Long Island. In Patchogue, construction is underway on a new 54,000 square foot ambulatory surgery and multi specialty center. An adaptive re use of a former department store on Main Street, the site will include physician practices for gastroen­terology, urology, and colorectal care in addition to four operating rooms and two endoscopy/procedure rooms. The facility is expected to open to patients in late 2025.In Manhasset, work is ongoing on another adaptive re use of a former department store at 1440 Northern Boulevard to become a new three story ambulatory care hub that will include ambulatory surgery, endoscopy, comprehensive imaging, and multi specialty physician practices including orthopedic, pulmonary, cardiovascular and gastrointestinal care. The project is approximately 162,000 square feet and will yield 72 exam rooms, six endoscopy rooms, and eight operating rooms with 42 recovery bays. Both the endoscopy and operating suites will be Article 28 licensed. The facility is expected to open to patients in 2026.On the main Manhattan campus, major renovation projects are underway at the Medical Science Building, the Schwartz Health Care Center, and at 540 First Avenue.•The Medical Science Building is being renovated for both hospital operations space as well as for an ex­pansion and modernization of research space. Over 100,000 square feet of the building is being renovated across the north and south wings on all floors, and the existing building infrastructure is being fully mod­ernized.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 13AffiliationsFrom time to time, NYU Langone Hospitals may consider affiliating with other acute care hospitals if NYU Langone Hospitals believes it would further its mission. No letters of intent or other binding documents have been executed with other hospitals in connection with potential affiliations.•The Schwartz Health Care Center is being renovated, which will include the construction of a new compre­hensive heart center, including space for an expanded transplant program. The project also seeks to posi­tion several outpatient services together that were previously scattered over several locations. This update will serve to streamline efficiency and improve patient experience, particularly for patients seeing multiple specialty physicians or surgeons or receiving multiple treatments. The total project area is over 100,000 square feet.•The research floors at 540 First Avenue have been re imagined. Construction is near completion, with phased occupancy scheduled to begin before the end of the calendar year on the full scale renovation of over 150,000 square feet of laboratory and associated mechanical equipment floors. With a focus on col­laboration, the laboratory floors will feature both visual and physician connectivity between offices and wet laboratories, and a variety of meeting and interactive spaces. A new entry sequence includes re oriented connecting stairs and custom two story art walls. The design emphasizes natural light, connectivity, and scientific collaboration with an efficient layout allowing each of the four floors to host up to ten principal investigators and 72 researchers, as well as various specialty research and laboratory support spaces.At NYU Langone Orthopedic Center at 338 East 38th Street, a 265,000 square foot major renovation is underway which will expand the clinical footprint by 187,000 square feet. This project will provide 18 new operating rooms, 72 prep/recovery bays, as well as a 65,000 square foot expansion of orthopedic outpatient programs. The renovation in­cludes a comprehensive replacement and upgrade of the building’s mechanical, electrical, and plumbing infrastructure.In Brooklyn, foundation work is nearing completion and construction has started on a new 120,000 square foot am­bulatory hub. This ground up development is located immediately adjacent to the hospital, and will house ambulatory surgery, FGP physician offices, and a clinic for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (“FHC”). The project will yield four endoscopy rooms with 14 recovery bays, six operating rooms with 21 recovery bays, 27 FHC exam spaces, and 20 FGP exam spaces. The endoscopy and operating suites will be Article 28 licensed sites. In November 2023, NYU Langone Brooklyn also received approval from the NYS DOH to begin an adult cardiac surgery program. This will allow patients to receive quality cardiac care in their own community. Construction for the first phase of this new inpatient service in the hospital is currently ongoing.A significant expansion of outpatient services is underway in Florida, including a new 180,000 square foot free standing multi specialty ambulatory hub in West Palm Beach, including four operating rooms, two endoscopy procedure rooms, a full complement of radiology modalities, physical therapy and multi specialty FGP physician offices. In February 2024, NYU Langone Health received a $75 million gift in support of this project, which NYU Langone Health anticipates will serve 150,000 patients annually across Florida. Site preparation and construction started in June and the new facility is expected to open to patients in 2026.Management anticipates that costs associated with any specific plans or projects will be funded from a combination of income generated from operations, philanthropy, and additional debt. Any borrowing in connection with such plans would be made in compliance with the requirements of the NYU Langone Hospitals Master Indenture.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT14Other Current EventsOn February 21, 2024, Change Healthcare, a subsidiary of Optum/United Health Group, was forced to shut down infor­mation technology systems and services due to a cyberattack. NYU Langone Health is among the many healthcare sys­tems that rely on Change Healthcare for its Assurance and Clearance platforms for critical operational needs, including claim submission, patient insurance verification, pharmacy verification, and receipt of payor remittances. That same day, NYU Langone Health disconnected its systems from Change Healthcare, and hospital billing was suspended for several days at the end of February.On February 22, 2024, NYU Langone Health selected alternate vendor platforms to perform both insurance eligibility verification and claim / remittance exchange. NYU Langone Health’s Information Technology (“IT”) department imme­diately integrated these platforms with Epic and by February 27, 2024, NYU Langone Health was submitting claims to select payors. By the first week of March, NYU Langone Health was submitting claims for all payers via the new plat­forms. The impact to patient care and financial operations has been significantly mitigated due to these measures. Throughout March, NYU Langone Health worked directly with Optum and related cybersecurity experts to ensure that the updated Change Healthcare platforms were secure. On March 29, 2024, NYU Langone Health reconnected its systems to Change Healthcare and began submitting claims as payors also began to reconnect to the system. NYU Langone Health returned to its normal claim submission operations in June 2024.CybersecurityCybersecurity is, and will continue to be, a strategic focus for NYU Langone Health across all campus locations. Its approach to the cyber technology landscape is to be dynamic and keeps pace with the latest technologies while imple­menting security layers to safeguard digital assets. NYU Langone Health leverages multiple levels of advanced technol­ogies to protect its digital assets. By implementing defense in depth cybersecurity measures, prioritizing human cen­tric security practices, and following industry best practices, NYU Langone Health has committed to establishing a comprehensive, resilient, and adaptive cybersecurity framework:•Cyber Threat Management and Incident Response: These programs anticipate and respond to emerging threats and incidents with informed precision, working to ensure that any suspicious activities are promptly addressed. •Vulnerability Management: This program proactively identifies critical vulnerabilities and works with the IT teams to remediate them before they become issues. •Security Architecture & Engineering and Penetration Testing: These programs evaluate the security of NYU Langone Health technologies and applications to strengthen and secure core digital assets.•Security Awareness and Education: This program includes phishing simulations, monthly security videos and posters, pop up security events, department presentations, newsletters, gamifications, and themed broadcasts to education and engage staff, building a formidable human firewall against cyber threats.NYU Langone Health continues to invest in advanced technologies such as ransom proof backups, remote access management, and network segmentation to further reinforce its security posture. NYU Langone Health currently maintains privacy liability and network security insurance through claims made policies. NYU Langone Health is self insured, with a primary insurance carrier who provides coverage above the self insurance portion. Excess limits above the self insurance portion and primary insurance coverage are shared among several commercial carriers. NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 15Early on, NYU Langone Health recognized the potential of Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) to improve the efficiency, quali­ty, and safety of health care delivery. Beginning in 2017, NYU Langone Health invested in recruiting high talent to unlock the potential of AI and created the Division of Ap­plied AI Technologies (“DAAIT”). Today, the DAAIT in NYU Langone Health’s IT department uses data and modeling to predict health outcomes across the enterprise, helping clinicians and staff make important clinical decisions in real time, while increasing operational efficiencies. NYU Langone Health now employs a combination of home­grown and vendor based models counting over 50 models in production, publishing thought leadership articles via social media and external communication platforms, sub­mitting AI findings to national and international medical journals, and developing the standards that will define how AI is used in healthcare. NYU Langone Health is also one of the first institutions to use a private HIPAA compli­ant ChatGPT instance.NYU Langone Health continues to invest in ongoing prior­ity AI initiatives to enhance efficiency, patient safety, and quality. NYU Langone Health also fosters AI innovation that extends beyond these three focus areas. For example, in the clinical realm, this includes studying generative AI for drafting responses to patients; ambient notetaking during patient visits; evaluating and standardizing pro­vider written documentation; and using generative AI to identify incremental findings in radiology exams and to write patient friendly discharge summaries. With these foundational works, NYU Langone Health’s goal is to implement these models in clinical practice with proper guardrails, and to measure the impact with experimental designs, such as randomized controlled trials. Another example of using AI at NYU Langone Health is helping physicians capture patients with comorbid conditions relevant to the primary admission reason, and to ensure that the physicians’ orders were carried through, as well as projects that focus on overall patient engagement.NYUTron, a BERT style (Bidirectional Encoder Represen­tations from Transformers) large language model that was created at NYU Langone Health, was trained on 7.25 mil­lion patient care notes and 4.1 billion words, incorporat­ing data spanning nearly a decade. Built in roughly three weeks by NYU Langone Health, the 109 million parameter model is being put to the test with patients. NYU Langone Health’s contribution was evaluating its effectiveness for real clinical tasks, such as predicting inpatient hospi­tal mortality, computing the comorbidity index, 30 day all cause readmission, length of stay, and payer denial at discharge. NYU Langone Health is now building clinical trials around these models. For inpatient mortality use cases, NYUTron aims to improve patient care by providing early warnings and facilitating important conversations about patient care preferences and, when appropriate, end of life planning.To continue innovating and identifying new ideas, NYU Langone Health created a citizen data scientist program with a goal of empowering every person at the institu­tion to experiment with NYU Langone Health’s private ChatGPT. Over the last year, NYU Langone Health de­veloped events such as Generative AI prompt a thons, hack a thons, educational materials, and weekly office hours designed to support users in developing and iterating AI ideas. Today, there are over 2,000 users. NYU Langone Health has five GPT based models in production, with nearly 20 in active development, and multiple others in the backlog. NYU Langone Health’s institutional and hospital leadership fully support and champion these AI initiatives and believe these applications will be transfor­mative for NYU Langone Health now and in the future.NYU Langone Health implements all AI models under a common concern to deploy these models safely, eq­uitably, and ethically on NYU Langone Health’s secure HIPAA compliant IT platforms, and provide clear guidance to clinicians, researchers, and staff with policies to guide their use. NYU Langone Health is laying the groundwork for scalable success in AI by prioritizing infrastructure and assuring privacy and security across all its cloud provid­ers’ AI products. This work involved deep dives into the security and architecture of each system, understanding the risks and building appropriate compensatory con­trols, if applicable, including amending business associate agreements.Role of Artificial IntelligenceNYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT16Medical AdvancesFirst fully robotic lung transplantIn September 2024, NYU Langone Health announced that its surgeons had per­formed the first fully robotic lung transplant in the nation. The procedure marks a new milestone in surgical innovation and patient care, making NYU Langone Health only the third program in the world to use a robotic system in a lung trans­plant surgery. Surgeons performed a minimally invasive procedure to transplant a patient’s right lung by creating small incisions between the ribs on the right side of the chest and then using the robotic system to remove the lung, prepare the surgical site for implantation, and implant the new lung. The second lung was transplanted through an open incision on the patient’s left side. The NYU Lan­gone Transplant Institute performed 78 lung transplants in 2024 and was rated best in the nation for lung survival after transplant and getting patients off the waitlists fastest by the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients, a national quality tracker overseen by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Long COVID in children and adolescentsA research team led by the National Institutes of Health’s RECOVER Initiative and supported by its Clinical Science Core at NYUGSOM has designed a new way to identify which school age children and adolescents are most likely to have long COVID. Published online in August 2024, in the Journal of the Amer­ican Medical Association, the study index used combinations of symptoms distinct for each age group—ten symptoms in school age children and eight in adolescents—to indicate the likely presence of long COVID. The research index is based on long term symptoms that were more common among children with a history of COVID 19 infection when compared to those who had no history of infection. Kidney transplantation risks dropThe risk of death for kidney donors has dropped by more than half, according to a study led by faculty members at the NYUGSOM. The study was published online in August 2024 and challenges current mortality rate statistics. According to the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, roughly 6,000 Americans vol­unteer to donate a kidney each year. Before undergoing the procedure, donors are informed of the potential risks, including death. Based on data from 1995 through 2009, healthcare experts formerly predicted that about three of every 10,000 donors were likely to die within three months of the procedure. The authors of the new NYU Langone Health study argue that advances in surgical techniques, donor selection, and postoperative care have rendered that estimate outdated. Analyzing three decades of medical records representing 164,593 kidney donors from across the country, a team led by researchers at NYU Langone Health found that by 2022, fewer than one death occurred for every 10,000 donations. The new report is the first since 2009 to examine trends in mortality risk among living kidney donors. As a result, it better reflects the reality of organ donation when laparoscopic nephrectomy is standard practice.XenotransplantationIn April 2024, surgeons at NYU Langone Health performed the first combined mechanical heart pump and gene edit­ed pig kidney transplant surgery. The heart pump was surgically implanted days before embarking on the transplant, which included a gene edited kidney and a pig’s thymus gland to aid against re­jection. To date, there have been no documented instances of anyone with a me­chanical heart pump receiving an organ transplant of any kind. It is only the sec­ond transplant of a gene edited pig kidney into a living person and the first with the thymus combined. Unfortunate­ly, the kidney presented unique challenges working with the patient’s heart pump and it was electively removed for­ty seven days post transplant. By undergoing this procedure, this patient allowed NYU Langone Health to make an in­credible leap forward in xenotransplantation. This contribution to medicine cannot be overstated. NYU Langone Health still be­lieves this important innovation sets the stage for sanctioned studies as early as next year. Nearly 104,000 people are on the waiting list for a transplant, with approximately 89,000 of those waiting for a kidney. Nearly 808,000 people in the United States have end stage kidney disease, but only about 27,000 were able to receive a transplant last year.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 17SustainabilityAt NYU Langone Health, caring for patients and communities extends to its care for the environment. Climate change is a global health issue which affects the livelihood of patients, communities, and staff. Flooding, wildfires, heat waves, and other climate related hazards are becoming more intense, longer, and more frequent due to climate change. These hazards all carry significant health and economic impacts.NYU Langone Health’s work to significantly reduce its greenhouse gases will not only reduce the demand of natural resources through efficient operations and cleaner energy, but also build and support healthy and equitable communi­ties. As NYU Langone Health leads initiatives to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions from its facilities, it is equally as important for NYU Langone Health to leverage its voice and size to advocate for decarbonization throughout the healthcare value chain.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT18Energy Management & Greenhouse Gas Emission ReductionNYU Langone Health’s goals are continuously evolving to support New York City, New York State, and national climate all in service of the U.S. commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement. Reducing NYU Langone Health’s greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions offers a multitude of benefits such as improving the quality of air in the communities served, in­creasing resiliency and energy efficiency, supporting the local economy, and making the institution’s buildings healthier and more comfortable for patients and staff.NYU Langone Health is committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050 as signatories to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Health Sector Pledge. This goal affects every facet of NYU Langone Health, in­cluding design, construction, and operations. As an interim goal, NYU Langone Health has committed to a reduc­tion in Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity (MT CO2e/square feet) by 2030 from a 2021 baseline. By the end of 2023, NYU Langone Health reduced emissions intensity by . As outlined by the pledge, the institution is also currently working on a comprehensive Scope 3 emissions analysis. The results of both inventories will inform long term decarbonization strategies and goals. NYU Langone Health has also been a longstanding participant in the NYC Carbon Challenge for its owned and leased facilities in New York City, totaling roughly 6 million square feet of real estate. It achieved its first carbon reduction goal of in 2015, four years ahead of schedule. Building upon that success, the institution increased to a carbon reduction goal by 2025. As of 2023, NYU Langone Health has reduced its carbon emissions by under the Carbon Challenge framework.The organization’s sustainability program is built on a foundation of strong energy management practices and resilient energy infrastructure investments. The organization invests heavily in system wide programs and scalable capital im­provement projects such as LED retrofits, computer power management, state of the art equipment like ultra efficient chiller plants and on site cogeneration, and deep retrofits of energy systems to increase resiliency and reliability. These high impact projects are paired with continuous monitoring and building automation to make sure that systems are functioning optimally.In fiscal year 2023, NYU Langone Health achieved $11.7 million in energy savings (not including