space. Product • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be manufactured by o ACI o BAPI • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Combos by Application: Duct mounted averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of duct area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 525 2024 o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Product o RTD Element: ACI o Transmitter: Kele Preheat coil discharge sensors • General o Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Product o RTD Element: ACI o Transmitter: Kele Duct mounted non averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 18" or half the width of the duct. o A NEMA 3R electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections. o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI o Transmitter: Kele NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 526 2024 Liquid insertion type • Product o RTD Element: ACI o Transmitter: Kele • Freezestats General • Low Air Temperature Thermostats for Air (freezestats) shall be sized to provide complete coil coverage as defined below to ensure each coil has one or more dedicated switches and no two coils share a temperature switch. o The coil area must be covered by freezestats leaving 6 inches from each edge of the coil. o The maximum vertical distance between each pass of capillary shall be no more than 8 inches. o Switch actuation shall occur if any 12 inch length of capillary senses a temperature below set point. o Capillary length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. o If capillary is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o If multiple freezestats are provided, each device shall only cover its percentage of coil. For example, if there are two (2) freezestats, each covers . If there are four (4) thermostats, each covers . o Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. o Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Low temperature switches (freezestats), one (1) for each cooling coil section, shall follow the following sequence: o Pre time delay timeout: • Any freezestat installed on the inlet of the cooling coil shall initiate a safety shutdown sequence upon sensing a temperature below the low limit setting of 35°F, locally adjustable at each freezestat. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 527 2024 • Each normally closed freezestat shall have a unique input and identifier. • Any freezestat trip shall activate a time delay relay. • Upon activation of the freezestat switch status input, the following shall occur (before time delay timeout):  The unique freezestat switch status input will be ON.  The time delay relay will initiate the elapsed time countdown  A pre alarm condition indicator shall activate at the BMS graphics containing the unique freezestat identifier  Preheat low limit setpoint will raise 10°F (adjustable)  CHW control valve will open to at least (if it isn’t already greater than open) o Post time delay timeout: • Upon activation of any freezestat switch status input for a continuous elapsed time of 30 seconds via the adjustable time delay relay, the following shall occur:  The supply fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The return fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The chilled water valve shall open to  The preheat valves shall control to a preheat discharge temperature setpoint of 95°F (adjustable)  A five star alarm must be generated each time a freezestat time delay relay activates.  Each time delay relay shall have an independent five star alarm.  After the freezestat switch status turns off, the five star critical alarm can be manually set to OFF via the BMS. Once the alarm is off and the unit can be manually restarted via the BMS.  The outside air intake damper(s) shall close  The supply fan discharge damper(s) shall close Product • These thermostats shall be 2 position automatic reset type. • Approved manufacturers: a. Belimo b. Johnson Controls • Thermowells Immersion temperature measurement • All thermowells shall be type 304 stainless steel • Lagging extension shall be equal to insulation thickness NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 528 2024 • Insertion length shall be 1/3 to 3/4 of internal pipe diameter, but not more than 6" • Thermowells shall be rated for maximum system pressure, temperature and fluid velocity. • Internal bore of thermowells shall be sized to exactly fit the diameter of the sensing element to be installed. g. Weather Stations General • For use with cooling tower or economizer control. • Provide detail on ordering instructions to specify desired customized outputs to BAS. • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. Product • Manufacturer: Vaisala h. Actuators General (by application) • Valve Actuators o All two position actuators shall be provided with open and closed limit switches for remote monitoring at the BMS. o Actuators shall be factory mounted to valve body and factory tested to ensure proper operation. o Actuators shall be provided with manually operated declutchable handwheels for overriding the actuator in both emergency and normal operation. o Actuator shall be provided with an external position indicator. o Tandem mounted actuators are not acceptable. o Actuators, limit switches, manual override handwheels, position indicators, etc., that are located outdoors shall be constructed for outdoor use. All electrical devices shall be weatherproof and NEMA 4 rated. All exposed valve components (i.e., stem, shaft, gear operators, handwheel, etc.) shall be constructed of non rusting metal or factory coated with rust inhibiting paint. • Damper actuators serving automatic louver dampers o Housing shall be NEMA 2 o Manual override shall be provided o Include external direction of rotation switch o Actuators shall be UL listed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 529 2024 o Damper actuators are to be mounted on damper axels directly. Linkages are to be avoided. o Two Position  Actuators in two position (open/closed) service shall be 120 VAC electrically actuated spring return type. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. o Modulating  All automatic louvered damper actuators in modulating service shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC electrically actuated spring return type, and shall be fully proportioning, unless otherwise specified. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. Product • Valve Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Bray, Belimo • Louvered Damper Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Belimo • Control Valve Actuators Preheat coil • Return: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal Position: Open Steam to or water to water heat exchanger • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed Chilled water coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 530 2024 Reheat coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed i. Current Instruments • Current Sensing Switches General • Switches shall have field adjustable sensitivity for detecting AC current levels. • Relay contacts shall be Form C rated for 5A at 120VAC • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. j. Signal Transducers i. Relays Time Delay Relay • General o Time delay trigger and function shall be specified to meet the application requirements. • Product o Manufacturer: Magnecraft Plug In Terminal (Ice Cube) • General o Relays shall be plug in terminal type with a DPDT configuration o Contact material shall be silver cadmium oxide o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. • Product o Manufacturer: Idec NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 531 2024 k. Meters • Metering shall be provided at the service entrance of each utility to each building. • BTU for all Mass Flow Meters shall be a Hard Wired Interface • Utility Metering will be Bi Directional meters and shall be set up with positive values for exporting, and negative values for importing. • Meters shall be integrated to the BMS, when utilized for control the control variable must be hardwired • Meters shall also be integrated to third party data acquisition platforms as required. • Meter integration for Manhattan Main Campus:  The following outlines connectivity of Electric, Steam or Liquid meters to the BMS. The connectivity will vary based on two scenarios. Scenario one will be a connection to a single meter location as confined to a single Electrical Room or a Distribution Board. The second scenario involves a cluster of meters spanning multiple floors or buildings.  Individual Meters:  Defined as a single meter or multiple meters that are confined to a single location such as an Electrical Meter Room or a single, connected service distribution board. Such Meters shall be connected to the BMS Gateway Controller via a twisted, shielded pair communication wire. The communication protocol shall be Modbus RTU. Points to be mapped to the BMS are for trending and energy calculations. These points are not to be used as process variables in equipment control. Points mapped will vary depending on metered media and meter purpose and will need to be specified by NYULH.  Meter Clusters:  Defined as multiple groups of meters, spread throughout a building or floor. Meter Clusters are to utilize Modbus TCP Connection and are to connect directly to MCIT network switches. A single Meter Gateway, native to the brand of the meter is to be provided and connected to the MCIT network switch to interface with all meters in its cluster. A serial (RS 485) network connection is to be utilized to connect any meters over a twisted, shielded pair cable to pick up any meters that are not able to utilize an Ethernet connection. A second serial, RS 485 connection will be utilized to connect the Meter Gateway to the BMS. The communication protocol shall be Modbus RTU. Points to be mapped to the BMS are for trending and energy calculations. These points are not to be used as process variables in equipment control. Points mapped will vary depending on metered media and meter purpose and will need to be specified by NYULH. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 532 2024 • Projects shall provide building level submetering for steam, chilled water, natural gas and electricity. Chilled water submetering should be provided at each chiller. Specialty medical / lab equipment requiring chilled water shall be metered separately per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Chilled Water Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Volumetric Flow Rate in Gallon/Min • Volumetric Flow in Gallons • Heat Flow Total in Tons • Heat Flow Rate in Tons/Hr • Supply Temp • Return Temp • Communication Status o Steam Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Steam Temperature in TempF • Steam Density • Steam Pressure in psig • Mass Flow Rate in lb/hr • Mass Flow Total in lb • Communication Status o Electric Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Communication Status • Each phase, V, I and PF and Frequency • Energy (kWh In/Out) • Real Power (kW) ii. Networks a. Network Hardware • Switches General • Quantity of 10 gigabit ports is required • A minimum of 24 ethernet ports is required. For large buildings, 48 ports is preferred. • Switch must include redundant hot swappable power supplies Approved Products • Manufacturer: Juniper o Model: o Core and Distribution: EX 4650 (48 ports) o Access: EX 4100 (48 ports) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 533 2024 • Manufacturer: Netgear o Model: Netgear Pro Series • Manufacturer: Blackbox o Model: Gigabit Managed LG8 Series • Routers General • BACnet router between MS/TP and B/IP (BACnet over IP) as well as a BBMD (BACnet Broadcast Management Device) for transportation of BACnet broadcasts over an IP network with several subnets. • Routers shall comply with the latest version of ASHRAE Standard 135 for communications. • Routers shall be UL864 listed when connected to BACnet MS/TP network segments that contain UL864 listed devices being used in a smoke control application. • Device shall be capable of routing BACnet packets over Layer 3 IP network and shall support both the router and BBMD networking options. BBMD shall support registration of Foreign Devices. • Devices shall be password protected with additional security settings. iii. Piping & Panels a. Panel Enclosure General • The enclosure shall be made of steel or extruded aluminum with proper bracing for rigid wall or floor mounting. The enclosure shall not be attached to any piece of building equipment. All associated controller equipment shall be mounted in this enclosure such as controllers, power supplies, relays, switches, etc. • Hinged door shall contain a key operated lock. Lock shall be a cam style, in order for all the cores to be accessed via a master key. The key shall match existing control keys located in the facility. • Enclosures shall have a removable perforated backplane where all devices, din rail, and Panduit shall be secured and mounted. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 534 2024 • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. Product • Accepted panel manufacturers: o Unity o Hoffman o Hammond b. Terminal Block General • All control panels shall be provided with a terminal strip for field wiring Product • Terminal blocks shall be 300 volt rated, medium duty, channel mounted, with numbered marking strips. c. Labeling General • Provide an engraved nameplate for each enclosure, mounted on the face of the door, indicating the controller tag, device instance, system served and branch circuit number and electrical panel tag from which the enclosure is fed. • The control panel has to be labeled for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to be labeled. All labeling of controller devices, controllers, transformers, relays, wire, tags, etc. shall match labeling on approved as built drawings • Each control device (IE. Relays, fuses, etc.) mounted within enclosure shall be marked with a nameplate cross referencing it to the control diagram. • Wiring shall have identification sleeves at each termination at the terminal strip individually identified per control/interlock drawings, with adequate clearance for field wiring. d. Panels General • Enclosures shall be provided with space for future addition of instruments. Fully loaded enclosures shall not be acceptable. Enclosures shall be oversized by . NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 535 2024 • Separate terminal blocks shall be installed for 120 volt AC wiring and for low level signal wiring within enclosures. Terminal blocks for line voltage wiring shall be separated from low level signal wiring by a barrier partition. • Each enclosure shall be provided with a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door, which shall be used to contain “as built” control diagrams serving the respective system. Plastic sleeve to contain controller directory indicating all input and output points labeled as per “as built” drawings. • Provide a 120 volt, 60 hertz duplex convenience outlet within each enclosure. Convenience outlet shall be provided with dedicated circuit breaker protection 5 Amp max. • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips • All wiring shall be contained neatly within plastic panduit. o Low voltage and line voltage wiring shall be routed through separate panduits. • Enclosure shall be provided with all required transformers and a main circuit breaker to disconnect all power serving the enclosure. • All transformers shall be mounted within an enclosure. Transformers will not be permitted to be installed out of enclosures. • For pressure switch alarms, provide a manual reset pushbutton switch with indicating light mounted on the face of the enclosure door. o Pushbutton shall allow an operator to reset a pressure alarm. The system shall remain off until manually reset via the pushbutton. e. Control Panel All materials used for the control panel must be UL listed and wired up under the standards of the National Electrical Code. The BMS subcontractor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers, power supplies, transformers, relays, terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. See figure CPL 01 for references. If the control panel has an external power source, see Figure CPL 04 as a reference. The Control Panel must consider the following points: • Circuit Breaker (CB) The control panel must have a main circuit breaker (CB) whose label will be: CB MP. This CB must be selected according to the total load that will be used in the control panel; see figure CPL 01A as a reference for a power diagram. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 536 2024 • Power Supply (PS) If power supplies are used to feed 24 VDC to the controllers, the power supply must have a circuit breaker in the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrent. See Figure CPL 01A as a reference for the power diagram. • Transformers (TX) Each 120 / 24 VAC transformer used in the control panel must have a circuit breaker in both the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrents. See Figure CPL 01A as a reference for a power diagram. • Single Terminal and double level terminal block i. Single terminal block Use single terminal blocks for the 120 VAC main power supply connections to the control panel as well as the low voltage connections after the power supply and transformers. See Figure CPL 02 for details of the terminal block and circuit breakers for 120 VAC (TB P1) and for low voltage 24 VAC and 24 VDC (TB P2), and Figure CPL 1A for a wire diagram reference. ii. Double level terminal block Inputs and Outputs: All the signals from the field devices must be connected to these terminals. There should be a strip of double level terminal blocks for inputs and a strip of double level terminal blocks for the output signal for the field. See Figure CPL 03 TB 01 as references. The top level has an odd number for a positive signal, and the bottom level has an even number for a negative signal. Field Power devices: A double level terminal block strip; check terminal block TB FPW shown in figure CPL 03 to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimum of two double terminal block blue color for 24VAC (T3) and two double terminal block yellow color for COM (T4). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 537 2024 • Layout Spaces The control panel layout must use the minimum and maximum spaces shown in the table of Figure CPL 01, to install the DIN rail that holds the terminal block strip, circuit breaker, control relays, and controllers. • Labels The control panel has to have labels for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to have wire labels. • Wire duct The control panel layout drawing has to indicate the width and height of the wire duct (Panduit), as shown on Figure CPL 01 as a reference. The wire duct has to be selected according to the manufacturer's recommendations. f. VAV Control Box For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking, the BMS vendor must install a double level terminal block strip to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimal of two double terminal blocks blue color for 24VAC and two double terminal blocks yellow color for COM. See Figure CPL 01A, the 24VAC Field Devices terminal block, as a reference. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 538 2024 Reference InchMIN MAX A 5 5.5 B 5 6 C12D 1 2 E55.5 Figure: CPL 01 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 539 2024 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 540 2024 Figure: CPL 02 Figure: CPL 03 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 541 2024 Reference InchMIN MAX B 5 6 E 5 5.5 Figure: CPL 4 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 542 2024 iv. Power Systems & Equipment (AHU's, Chillers, etc.) fed from emergency power sources shall have their associated DDC controllers and DDC devices fed from the same emergency source. All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller, etc.) is on emergency power. If emergency power is not available or perceived as not available, notify the NYULH facility management team that emergency/standby power is not available for controller use and NYULH staff will provide direction. Any DDC controller that’s powered with Emergency Power shall be connected to a UPS power source. This includes Terminal units for Critical Spaces. All control power, 24V or otherwise, shall be protected with a line filter, surge suppressor, electrical breaker, and control fuse (last two need discussion). a. For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking: • Power to terminal unit controls shall be 120VAC with enclosure mounted 24VAC step down transformer, fuse and disconnect switch. b. For Fan Coil Units: • Power to fan coil unit controls shall use a line voltage to 24VAC step down transformer, fuse, and disconnect switch. • Control power shall come from the line side of the fan coil unit power (upstream of the disconnect), to prevent communication loss when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. c. Control Transformer General • Transformer shall be sized as follows for optimal performance and overheat issues. o Control Panels: Total VA of all controllers in the panel on the same power loop x 1.5 = Transformer size o Controllers with actuator: Total VA of all controllers and actuators on the same power loop x2 or x3 based on total devices = Transformer size Product • Manufacturer: Functional Devices, Inc. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 543 2024 d. Uninterruptible Power Supply for Network Hardware General • The UPS shall be monitored at the nearest network switch via an IP network wire in conduit. Product • Manufacturer: Schneider APC v. Wire General • Cables for 120/24 VAC wiring, communications wiring and low level signal wiring (i.e., 4 20ma, 0 10v) shall always be run in separate raceways. • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be plenum rated cable. • All wiring in Mechanical Equipment Rooms, communications or electrical closets shall be in approved raceway (conduit, EMT, etc.). • Wiring within inaccessible ceilings shall be installed in conduit. • Wiring within drywall cavities or enclosure or beneath raised floor construction shall be in conduit. • The supporting of wiring from other equipment, mechanical ductwork or piping shall not be acceptable. Provide individual supports for conduit and free air plenum cable. • No 300 volt insulated (rated) wiring shall terminate within or occupy any enclosure containing conductors operating at a voltage greater than 300 volts. This particularly applies to any analog or digital I/O wiring entering 460 volt motor starter enclosures or motor control centers. • Wire jacket/insulation must be compatible with duct seal putty. • BMS conduit color labelling shall be Orange background with Black lettering BMSBlack on OrangeTEXT NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 544 2024 • Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTU: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be bundled together and protected from mechanical damage. • Wiring shall be independently supported from the building structure with bridal rings and clips. • All control wiring internal to the panel shall be wired from the I/O of the controller to the terminal strip. Under no circumstance will field wiring be terminated from inputs or outputs directly to the controllers. • Terminations shall be mechanically and electrically secure. Twist type wire nuts shall not be acceptable. Insulated tinned copper lugs shall be provided. • Perform continuity and point to point testing for all wiring installed. • Wire stripping and terminations shall follow the correct installation procedure as shown below: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 545 2024 a. IP Network Wire General • All ethernet cable runs shall not exceed 100 meters in length. Product • Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. / Vextra b. Non IP Network Wire General • This section applies to cabling used in the following applications o ARC156 o MS/TP Networks o Modbus RTU Product • Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. c. Power Wire See NYU Langone Health Electrical Design Guidelines for power wire requirements at voltages equal to and above 120 Volts. d. Wire Labels & Labeling General • All wires terminating at each field device, terminal box, field equipment cabinet, DDC control unit, or any other terminals shall be identified by labels. • Identification shall be consistent with the tagging indicated on the approved shop drawings. • All communication wiring shall be tagged with the previous and post devices on the network. • The same identification code shall be carried through from the field device to the final termination point. • After identification is complete, the wire markers shall be anchored using a single layer of non yellowing clear Mylar tape. H. Smarts i. Alarms General Requirements: • All digital input points shall be alarmed on change of state from normal state. Include a 60 second time delay on make unless specified in Alarm Parameters. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 546 2024 • All analog input points shall be alarmed. Provide adjustable deadband to prevent nuisance alarms. Include a 300 second time delay on make and appropriate deadband unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • Nuisance alarms (i.e., repeating alarms) will be corrected during warranty period. Nuisance alarms are considered alarms that repeat due to poorly configured alarms or if smart alarms are not installed and cause unnecessary lower tier alarms. • All systems that are capable of automatic restart after a shutdown/alarm condition shall be able to have remote alarm clearing and acknowledgement ability through the BMS. Local clearing of alarms shall only be necessary with systems that can only be reset locally. • For projects on the Manhattan Main Campus and Long Island Main Campus, alarming shall be integrated in to Virtual Facility Alarm Triage. Smart Alarming: • Smart alarming feature shall be implemented when an equipment failure will trigger multiple secondary alarms causing unnecessary data transmission and operator alarm acknowledgement. Smart alarming shall be utilized to prevent unnecessary alarming of points. • Smart alarms shall be implemented for the following systems: o Air handling units o Chilled, condenser and hot water systems o Secondary water systems o Generators, ATS and breaker interfaces o Rooms that are monitored via door contacts and room pressure monitors o The following are some examples:  Air Handling Unit Run Failure On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on or air handling unit shut down due to a safety device, or if an air handling unit is off, provide a software program which shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and humidity sensor associated with the air handling unit. On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on, an alarm should trigger for the fan status loss, but no pressure sensor alarm or supply air temperature alarm or normal room temperature alarms. On failure of an air handling unit with more than one (1) fan, one (1) alarm shall generated for failure. All individual fan fail alarm will disabled. All VAV boxes or other terminal units reliant on airflow from the AHU will have their alarms disabled upon air handling unit failure to run or has not proven status. All safety devices (pressure switches and freezestats) shall remain active and capable of alarming. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 547 2024 In general, space temperature alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall be disabled. However, extreme room temperatures or freezing preheat temperatures should annunciate (Note: There may be critical rooms such as cold rooms which will continue to be monitored for alarm.) All space pressurization alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall continue to be monitored for alarm. Upon a smart alarm activation, the alarm message must read that this is a smart alarm and some alarms have been suppressed. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Secondary Water System Failure On failure of all pumps associated with a secondary water system, provide a software program that shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and flow sensor associated with the water system. All alarms associated with equipment that is disabled (i.e., off) shall be inhibited from operating. When a piece of equipment is off, all alarms associated with the equipment, as well as alarms associated with areas served by the equipment or secondary equipment served, shall be disabled. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Generators, ATS and Breakers Interface All failure alarms associated with generator interface shall be enabled and annunciated. All normal operating status alarms shall be disabled. All breakers status alarm, such as open/closed status, shall be disabled. Breaker failure and tripped alarms shall be enabled. All ATS transition statuses alarm, such bypass to emergency, bypass to normal, connected to emergency, etc. to shall be enabled. All additional alarms shall be disabled.  Filter Alarm All filters shall be provided with a differential pressure transmitter that shall be monitored at the BMS. Dirty filter alarms shall be generated when the differential pressure across the filter has exceeded setpoint (adj.). Filter alarms based off runtime are not acceptable. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 548 2024 Alarm Parameters: • Alarm parameters shall be structured as follows: AlarmDelay on Make (seconds) Delay on Break (seconds) Multiple Fan Array Fail Individual360060Multiple Fan Array Fail Unit3000Single Office Fan Fail6000Single Lab Fan Failure3000Single Critical Fan Failure600Pump Failure600Fan/Pump VFD Common Alarm1800600Fan Filter846003600Fan Temperature 60060Fan/Pump Pressure (Static/DP)30060Fan AirFlow72003600VAV Room Temperature60060VAV AirFlow3600600Leak Detector6010Freeze Detector6010 Alarm Syntax: • Alarm syntax shall be structured as follows: o Priority Designation,