CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E APPENDIX E: PATIENT PRIVACY AND RIGHTS UNDER THE IRF PPS This chapter includes the following documents: • Privacy Act Statement (English) • Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (English) • Privacy Act Statement (Spanish) • Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (Spanish) IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 1 rn Replry Refer To: HDA~A CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 2 PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT HEALTH CARE RECORDS This statement gives you notice of a data collection as required by law (section 552a(e)(3) of the Privacy Act of 1974). This statement is not a consent form. It will not be used to release or to use your health care information. I. The authority for this data collection is given under section 1886(j)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act, which authorizes the Secretary to collect the data necessary to establish and administer the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility (IRF) Prospective Payment System (PPS). Medicare participating Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF) must do a complete assessment that accurately reflects your current clinical status and includes information that can be used to show your progress toward your rehabilitation goals. The IRF must use the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Patient Assessment Instrument (IRF PAI) as part of that assessment, when evaluating your clinical status. The IRF PAI must be used to assess every Medicare Part A (Fee for Service) and Part C (Medicare Advantage) inpatient, and it may be used to assess other types of inpatients. The information that is collected on the IRF PAI is submitted to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which uses the information to be sure that the IRF is paid appropriately for the services that they furnish you, and to help evaluate whether the IRF meets quality standards and gives appropriate health care to its patients. CMS safeguards the IRF PAI data in a data system. The system limits data access to authorized users and monitors such users to ensure against unauthorized data access or disclosures. This system conforms to all applicable Federal laws and regulations as well as Federal government, Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), and CMS policies and standards as they relate to information security and data privacy. The applicable laws and regulations include, but are not limited to: the Privacy Act of 1974; the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002; the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; the E Government Act of 2002; the Clinger Cohen Act of 1996; the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003; and the corresponding implementing regulations. While you have the right to refuse to provide information to the IRF for the assessment, this information is very important in ensuring that the IRF is paid appropriately for the services it provides, meets quality standards, and furnishes appropriate health care to its patients. We hope that you will cooperate with your IRF in gathering the necessary data. As explained below, any information that you provide to the federal government through this assessment will be protected under the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 in accordance with the IRF PAI System of Records Notice. Furthermore, you will always have the right to see, copy, review, and request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information in the IRF PAI System of Records. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 3 II. PRINCIPAL PURPOSE FOR WHICH YOUR INFORMATION IS INTENDED TO BE USED The information collected will be entered into the IRF PAI System of Records No. 09 70 0521. The information will primarily be used to support payments for Fee for Service care provided to Medicare Part A beneficiaries by IRFs under the IRF PPS. This information may also be used or disclosed for additional purposes that are related to the principal purpose for which the data was collected. These additional uses are called “routine uses,” which are discussed in detail below. III. ROUTINE USES The following “routine uses” specify the circumstances when CMS may release your information from the IRF PAI System of Records without your consent. Prior to receiving data under one of these routine uses, each prospective recipient must agree in writing to ensure the continuing confidentiality and security of your information. Furthermore, disclosures of protected health information authorized by these routine uses may be made only if, and as, permitted or required by the ‘Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information.’ (45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which are commonly referred to as the “HIPAA Privacy Rule.”) The routine uses are: 1. To support agency contractors, consultants, or grantees who have been engaged by the agency to assist in the performance of a service related to this System of Records and who need to have access to the records in order to perform the activity. 2. To support Quality Improvement Organizations (QIO) in connection with review of claims, or in connection with studies or other review activities conducted pursuant to part B of Title XI of the Act, and in performing affirmative outreach activities to individuals for the purpose of establishing and maintaining their entitlement to Medicare benefits or health insurance plans. 3. To assist another Federal and/or state agency, agency of a state government, agency established by state law, or its fiscal agent to: a. Contribute to the accuracy of CMS’s proper payment of Medicare benefits; b. Enable such agency or agent to administer a Federal health benefits program, or as necessary to enable such agency or agent to fulfill a requirement of a Federal statute or regulation that implements a health benefits program funded in whole or in part with Federal funds; or c. To improve the state survey process for investigation of complains related to health and safety or quality of care and to implement a more outcome oriented survey and certification program. 4. To an individual or organization for a research, evaluation, or epidemiological projects related to the prevention of disease or disability, the restoration or maintenance of health, or for understanding and improving payment projects. 5. To support the Department of Justice (DOJ), a court or an adjudicatory body when: a. The agency or any component thereof; b. Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 4 c. Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the DOJ has agreed to represent the employee; or d. The United States Government is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and by careful review, CMS determines that the records are both relevant and necessary to the litigation and the use of such records by the DOJ, court or adjudicatory body is compatible with the purpose for which the agency collected the records. 6. To a CMS contractor (including, but not necessarily limited to fiscal intermediaries, carriers and Medicare Administrative Contractors (MAC)) that assists in the administration of a CMS administered health benefits program, or to a grantee of a CMS administered grant program, when disclosure is deemed reasonably necessary by CMS to prevent, deter, discover, detect, investigate, examine, prosecute, sue with respect to, defend against, correct, remedy, or otherwise combat fraud or abuse in such program. 7. To assist another Federal agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States (including any State or local governmental agency), that administers, or that has the authority to investigate potential fraud or abuse in whole or part by Federal funds, when disclosure is deemed reasonable necessary by CMS to prevent, deter, discover, detect, investigate, examine, prosecute, sue with respect to, defend against, correct, remedy, or otherwise combat frauds or abuse in such programs. 8. To assist a national accrediting organization that has been approved for deeming authority for Medicare requirements for inpatient rehabilitation services (e.g., the Joint Commission for the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, the American Osteopathic Association and the Commission of Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities). Data will be released to these organizations only for those facilities that participate in Medicare by virtue of their accreditation status, and even then, only if they meet the following requirements: a. Provide identifying information for IRFs that have an accreditation status with the requesting deemed organization; b. Submission of a finder file identifying beneficiaries/patients receiving IRF services; c. Safeguard the confidentiality of the data and prevent unauthorized access; and d. Upon completion of a signed data exchange agreement or a CMS data use agreement. 9. To assist insurance companies, third party administrators (TPA), employers, self insurers, manage care organizations, other supplemental insurers, non coordinating insurers, multiple employer trusts, group health plans (i.e., health maintenance organizations (HMO) or a competitive medical plan (CMP)) with a Medicare contract, or a Medicare approved health care prepayment plan (HCPP), directly or through a contractor, and other groups providing protection for their enrollees. Information to be disclosed shall be limited to Medicare entitlement data. In order to receive the information, they must agree to: a. Certify that the individual about whom the information is being provided is one of its insured or employees, or is insured and/or employed by another entity for whom they serve as a third party administrator; b. Utilize the information solely for the purpose of processing the individual’s insurance claims; and CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 5 c. Safeguard the confidentiality of the data and prevent unauthorized access. 10. To appropriate Federal agencies, Department officials and contractors, as well as CMS contractors, to respond to a suspected or confirmed breach of the security or confidentiality of the information maintained in this System of Records. IV. EFFECT ON YOU IF YOU DO NOT PROVIDE INFORMATION The IRF needs the information contained in the IRF PAI in order to comply with the Medicare regulations. Your IRF will also use the IRF PAI to assist in providing you with quality care. It is important that the information be correct. Incorrect information could result in payment errors. Incorrect information also could make it difficult to evaluate if the facility is giving you quality services. While this information is important, there is no federal law basis for your IRF refusing you services if you refuse to provide the requested information. CONTACT INFORMATION If you want to ask the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to see, review, copy or request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information, which that Federal agency maintains in its IRF PAI System of Records: Call 1 800 MEDICARE, toll free, for assistance in contacting the IRF PAI System of Records Manager. TTY for the hearing and speech impaired: 1 800 820 1202 CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 6 Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities This notice is a simplified plain language summary of the information contained in the attached “Privacy Act Statement Health Care Records” As a hospital rehabilitation inpatient, you have the privacy rights listed below. • You have the right to know why we need to ask you questions. We are required by federal law to collect health information to make sure: 1) You get quality health care, and 2) Payment for Medicare patients is correct. • You have the right to have your personal health care information kept confidential and secure. You will be asked to tell us information about yourself so that we can provide the most appropriate, comprehensive services for you. We keep anything we learn about you confidential and secure. This means only those who are legally permitted to use or obtain the information collected during this assessment will see it. • You have the right to refuse to answer questions. You do not have to answer any questions to get services. • You have the right to look at your personal health information. We know how important it is that the information we collect about you is correct. You may ask to review the information you provided. If you think we made a mistake, you can ask us to correct it. CONTACT INFORMATION If you want to ask the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to see, review, copy or request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information which that Federal agency maintains in its IRF PAI System of Records: Call 1 800 MEDICARE, toll free, for assistance in contacting the IRF PAI System of Records Manager. TTY for the hearing and speech impaired: 1 800 820 1202 Note: The rights listed above are in concert with the rights listed in the hospital conditions of participation and the rights established under the Federal Privacy Rule. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 7 DECLARACIÓN DE LA LEY DE PRIVACIDAD EXPEDIENTES MÉDICOS Esta declaración es una notificación sobre la recolección de información requerida por la sección 552a(e)(3) de la Ley de Privacidad de 1974. Esta declaración no es una autorización. No se utilizará para divulgar o para usar su información médica. I. La sección 1886(j)(2)(D) de la Ley del Seguro Social autoriza a la Secretaría a recopilar la información necesaria para establecer y administrar el Sistema de Pago (PPS en inglés) de los Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos (IRF en inglés). Los centros de rehabilitación para pacientes internos que participan en Medicare deben hacer una evaluación completa que refleje con precisión su condición clínica actual e incluir información que pueda usarse para demostrar su progreso hacia las metas de rehabilitación. El centro de rehabilitación para pacientes internos debe usar el Instrumento de Evaluación del Paciente en Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos (IRF PAI en inglés), cuando se evalúa su condición clínica. El IRF PAI debe usarse para evaluar a cada paciente internado bajo la Parte A (pago por servicio), la Parte C (Medicare Advantage) y podría usarse para evaluar a otros tipos de pacientes internados. Esta información se presentará a los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid (CMS en inglés) para garantizar que se les pague correctamente a los IRF por los servicios que le proveyeron y para ayudar a determinar si los centros cumplen los estándares de calidad y ofrecen a sus pacientes el cuidado apropiado. CMS guardará los datos de IRF PAI en el sistema de expedientes. El sistema limita el acceso a las personas autorizadas y controladores que vigilan el uso no autorizado de la información o la divulgación de la misma. El sistema se ajusta a las leyes federales aplicables y reglamentaciones, así como a las disposiciones y estándares del gobierno federal, del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (HHS) y de CMS relacionadas con la seguridad y confidencialidad de la información. Las leyes y reglamentaciones aplicables incluyen, pero no se limitan a: la Ley de Privacidad de 1974; La Ley Federal de Control de la Seguridad de la Información de 2002; la Ley de Fraude y Abuso por Computadora de 1986; de la Ley de Transferencia y Responsabilidad del Seguro Médico de 1996; la Ley de Servicios Gubernamentales Electrónicos (E Government) de 2002; la Ley Clinger Cohen de 1996; la Ley de Modernización de Medicare de 2003; y las reglamentaciones para aplicarlas. Si lo desea, usted puede negarse a proveerle al IRF la información para la evaluación. Sin embargo, la misma es importante para garantizar que los IRF reciban el pago correcto por los servicios que le brindaron, que cumplan con los estándares de calidad y le brinden la atención médica que usted necesita. Esperamos que coopere con el IRF brindándole la información solicitada. Tal y como lo explicamos abajo, cualquier información que le provea al gobierno federal a través de esta evaluación, estará protegida por la Ley de Privacidad de 1974 según lo indicado por el Aviso del Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. Además, usted tiene el derecho de ver, copiar, revisar y solicitar la corrección de su información médica personal incorrecta o incompleta en el Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 8 II. PROPÓSITO PRINCIPAL PARA EL CUAL SE USARÁ SU INFORMACIÓN La información recopilada se entrará en el Sistema IRF PAI Número 09 70 0521. La información se usará principalmente para respaldar el sistema de pagos IRF PPS por los servicio de la Parte A de Medicare brindados por el IRF a los beneficiarios de Medicare. La información también puede usarse o divulgarse para otros asuntos relacionados con el propósito principal para el cual se solicitó la información. A estos usos adicionales se les conoce como “usos de rutina” y se los analizará en detalle a continuación. III. USOS DE RUTINA Estos “usos de rutina” especifican las circunstancias en las que los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid podrían divulgar su información del Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI sin su consentimiento. Antes de recibir su información para estos “usos de rutina”, cada destinatario potencial debe garantizar por escrito la continuación de la confidencialidad y la seguridad de su información. La divulgación de la información de salud protegida autorizada para estos usos de rutina podrían hacerse sólo si, y como lo permitan o lo requieran los ‘Estándares de Privacidad para la Información de Salud Identificable Individualmente’ (45CFR Partes 160 y 164 a la que se le conoce como “Norma de Privacidad de HIPAA”). La divulgación de la información podría ser para: 1. Brindar apoyo a los contratistas, consultores o donatarios utilizados por la agencia para proveer algún servicio relacionado con el Sistema de Expedientes y que para realizar dicha actividad, deben tener acceso a la información. 2. Para ayudar a las Organizaciones para Mejoras de la Calidad (QIO en inglés) en la revisión de las reclamaciones, o actividades relacionadas con estudios u otras revisiones de la Parte B, estipuladas en el Título XI de la Ley, y actividades para establecer y mantener la elegibilidad de las personas para los beneficios de Medicare o de los planes médicos. 3. Para asistir a otra agencia federal y/o estatal, una agencia de un gobierno estatal, una agencia establecida por una ley estatal o su agente fiscal a: a. Contribuir al pago correcto de CMS de los beneficios de Medicare; b. Permitir que dicha agencia o agente administre el programa federal de beneficios de salud o, cuando sea necesario, para permitir que esta agencia cumpla con un requisito de un estatuto o reglamentación federal que implementa un programa de beneficios de salud subvencionado en forma parcial o total con fondos federales, o c. Mejorar el proceso de encuesta estatal para la investigación de quejas relacionadas con la salud, seguridad o calidad de los servicios y para implementar una encuesta de opinión orientada a los resultados y un programa de certificación. 4. A una persona u organización para una investigación, evaluación o proyectos epidemiológicos relacionados a la prevención de enfermedades o discapacidades, el restablecimiento o el mantenimiento de la salud o para comprender y mejorar los proyectos de pagos. 5. Para apoyar al Departamento de Justicia (DOJ en inglés), tribunal o cuerpo judicial cuando: CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 9 a. La agencia o cualquiera de sus componentes; o b. Cualquier empleado de la agencia en su capacidad oficial; o c. Cualquier empleado de la agencia en su capacidad individual donde el empleado sea representado por DOJ; o d. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos; es una de las partes del litigio o tiene un interés en este litigio y mediante una revisión cuidadosa, CMS determina que los expedientes son relevantes y necesarios al litigio y el uso de estos expedientes por el DOJ, el tribunal o el cuerpo judicial es compatible con el propósito para el cual la agencia recopiló los expedientes. 6. Para ayudar a un contratista de CMS (incluyendo, pero no necesariamente limitado a los intermediarios fiscales y agencias de seguros) que asiste en la administración de un programa de beneficios de salud administrado por CMS o a un beneficiario o a un programa de beneficiarios administrado por CMS, cuando la divulgación se considera razonablemente necesaria por CMS para prevenir, impedir, descubrir, detectar, investigar, examinar, enjuiciar, demandar con respecto a, defender contra, corregir, remediar, o combatir el fraude y el abuso en estos programas. 7. Apoyar a otra agencia federal o a una agencia de cualquier jurisdicción gubernamental dentro o bajo el control de los Estados Unidos (entre ellas, cualquier agencia gubernamental estatal o local) que administre, o que tenga la autoridad para investigar el posible fraude o abuso total o parcial a los fondos federales, cuando la divulgación se considera razonablemente necesaria por CMS para prevenir, impedir, descubrir, detectar, investigar, examinar, enjuiciar, demandar con respecto a, defender contra, corregir, remediar, o combatir el fraude y el abuso en estos programas. 8. Asistir a una organización nacional acreditada que ha sido aprobada como la autoridad para considerar los requisitos de Medicare para servicios de rehabilitación para pacientes internos (éstas son, la Comisión Conjunta para la Acreditación de Organizaciones al Cuidado de la Salud, la Asociación Americana de Osteopatía y la Comisión para la Acreditación de Instalaciones de Rehabilitación). La información se divulgará a estas organizaciones sólo para aquellos centros que participen en Medicare por estar acreditados y aún así, solamente si cumplen los requisitos siguientes: a. Proporcionen información identificable para los IRF acreditados por la organización que lo requiera. b. Presenten un expediente que identifique a los pacientes/beneficiarios que reciban servicios de IRF; c. Protejan la confidencialidad de la información y eviten el acceso no autorizado; y d. Hayan firmado un acuerdo de intercambio o acuerdo de utilización de la información de CMS. 9. Para ayudar a las compañías de seguros, administradores de terceros (TPA en inglés), empleadores, compañías de seguros por cuenta propia, compañías de seguros no coordinadoras, fideicomisos de empleadores múltiples, planes de salud grupales (por ejemplo, Organizaciones para el Mantenimiento de la Salud (HMO en inglés) o un Plan Médico Competitivo (CMP en inglés) que tenga un contrato con Medicare, o un plan médico prepagado aprobado por Medicare (HCPP en inglés), directamente o a través de un contratista, y otros grupos que proveen protección a los miembros del plan. La CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 10 información divulgada se limita exclusivamente a aquella autorizada por Medicare. Para recibirla, deben: a. Certificar que la persona sobre la cual se provee información es uno de sus asegurados o empleados, y que está asegurada y/o empleada por otra entidad para la cual ellos rinden servicio como un administrador de terceros; b. Utilizar la información sólo para propósitos de procesar las reclamaciones de seguros del individuo; y c. Proteger la confidencialidad de la información y prevenir el acceso no autorizado. 10. A las agencias federales apropiadas, funcionarios de Ministerios y sus contratistas y a los contratistas de CMS para responder a la sospecha o confirmación de una violación a la seguridad o confidencialidad de la información del Sistema de Expedientes. IV. LAS CONSECUENCIAS SI DECIDE NO PROVEER LA INFORMACIÓN El IRF necesita la información del Sistema IRF PAI para cumplir las normas de Medicare. Su centro para la rehabilitación para pacientes internos también usará el IRF PAI para brindarle cuidado de calidad. Es importante que la información esté correcta para evitar errores en los pagos. La información incorrecta también podría hacer más difícil la evaluación de la calidad de los servicios provistos por el centro. Si bien esta información es importante, no hay una ley federal en la que pueda ampararse su IRF para negarle servicios si usted decide no proporcionar la información solicitada. INFORMACIÓN DE CONTACTO Si desea que CMS vea, revise, copie o corrija la información incorrecta o incompleta sobre su salud que consta en el Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI: Llame gratis al 1 800 MEDICARE si necesita ayuda para comunicarse con el Gerente de Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. Los usuarios de TTY deben llamar al 1 800 820 1202. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 11 Resumen de Información de Recopilación de Datos para Pacientes en Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos Este aviso es un resumen en lenguaje simplificado de la información que aparece en el documento adjunto “Declaración de la Ley de Privacidad Informes de Cuidado de la Salud” Como paciente interno de rehabilitación en un hospital, usted tienen los siguientes derechos de privacidad: • Usted tiene el derecho de saber por qué necesitamos hacer preguntas. Se nos requiere por ley federal recopilar información de salud para asegurarnos que: 1) usted obtiene cuidado de salud de calidad, y 2) el pago para los pacientes de Medicare esté correcto. • Usted tiene el derecho de mantener la información del cuidado personal de su salud en confidencialidad y seguridad. Le pediremos información sobre usted para poder proveerle los servicios apropiados y completos. Mantendremos la información que nos brinda en confidencialidad y seguridad. Esto significa que sólo podrán verla aquellos que tienen permiso legal para usar u obtener la información recopilada durante esta evaluación. • Usted tiene el derecho de negarse a responder a las preguntas. Usted no tiene que responder a ninguna pregunta para obtener servicios. • Usted tiene el derecho de ver su información de salud personal. Sabemos cuán importante es que la información que recopilemos sobre usted esté correcta. Podría pedir revisar la información que usted proveyó. Si considera que hemos cometido un error, puede pedirnos una corrección. Además, podría pedir a los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid ver, revisar, copiar o solicitar correciones de información de salud personal perdida o incorrecta que esta agencia federal mantiene en su Sistema de Informes IRF PAI. Para INFORMACIÓN DE CONTACTO o una descripción detallada de sus derechos de privacidad, refiérase a la DECLARACIÓN DE LA LEY DE PRIVACIDAD INFORMES DE CUIDADO DE LA SALUD adjuntos. Nota: Los derechos en la lista anterior están de acuerdo con los derechos en la lista de las condiciones de participación del hospital y los derechos establecidos según la Norma Federal de Privacidad. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E This is a Medicare & Medicaid Approved Notice. IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 12


UPDATE ON M. ABSCESSUS AND NEW THERAPIES FOR NTM Doreen J. Addrizzo Harris, MD, FCCPProfessor of MedicineCo Director, NYU Bronchiectasis ProgramAssociate Director, Clinical and Academic AffairsDivision of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep MedicineFinancial Disclosures• PI for clinical trials with Insmed/Zambone/Hill Rom (all bronchiectasis/NTM related)Case • 59 y/o F without significant PMH• Recurrent respiratory infections over 3 years;• CXR revealed mild increase in airways disease; • CT finally performed after 3 years of coughCT Chest from 2016Case • M. Abscessus subspecies abscessus• Recurrent courses of combination of oral antibiotics with IV therapy for weeks to months• IV tigecycline and IV amikacin with clofazimine and tedizolid for 3 months• Then on oral therapy bedaquiline, clofazimine and inhaled amikacin• And back on IV and then oral and back and forth…...............Mycobacterium abscessusIsolated in 1950 from synovial fluid and buttock lesions in a 63 year old womanMoore M et al. J Invest Derm. 1953;20:133•Mycobacterium abscessus was first identified in a patient with a knee infection and SQ abscesses•M. abscessus is the 2nd 3rd most common cause of lung disease due to NTM and the most common cause of lung disease due to a rapid grower•The organism is highly resistant to antibiotics with current in vitro methodsM. abscessus group 3 subspecies•Tigecycline IV•Amikacin IV•Cefoxitin IV•Imipenem IV•Moxifloxacin PO or IV•Along with oral options• Clofazimine• Oxazolidinones Current Common Options for TreatmentMycobacterium abscessus• In patients with m.abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a macrolide containing multidrug treatment regimen (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). • In patients with m.abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we suggest a macrolide containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatoryproperties although the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).• In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we suggest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesTreatment of M. abscessusM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesTreatment of M. abscessusMacrolide?≥2 other drugs Amikacin2 +mosMacrolide?≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacinM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesMacrolide?≥2 other drugs AmikacinMacrolide≥1 other drug AmikacinImipenem (IV) Cefoxitin (IV) Tigecycline (IV) Linezolid Clofazimine MoxifloxacinBedaquilineAvibactam/ceftaz (IV)OmadacyclineMacrolide?≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacinMacrolide≥1 other drugInhaledAmikacinTreatment of M. abscessus(Duration 12 months culture negativity)2+ mos2+ mosM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense• Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients With Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST2015; 148(2):499 506• A case series of off label use of bedaquiline caused by MAC or Mab.• 10 patients were reviewed ( 6 MAC, 4 Mab)• Patients had refractory disease and were treated for 1 8 years prior to starting bedaquiline• had macrolide resistant isolates• Dose was 400mg daily with food for 2 weeks followed by 200mg TIW.• All patients completed 6 months of therapy with bedaquiline and remain on therapy.• Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients With Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST 2015; 148(2):499 506• After 6 months of therapy, ( 6/10) had a microbiologic response with (5/10) having one or more negative cultures.• Side effects Nausea () Arthralgias () Anorexia and subjective fever ()• No abnormal ECG changes were observed.• A small preliminary study that highlights the potential clinical and microbiologic activity of bedaquiline in patients with advance MAC/Mab.• A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination regimen might add activity to the treatment of clinically relevant non tuberculousmycobacteriaRuth M, J Antimicrob Chemother 2019; Ijakko van Ingen• In TK assays, bedaquiline showed a bacteriostatic effect. Clofazimineextended the bacteriostatic activity of bedaquiline against MAB and yielded a slight bactericidal effect against M. avium.• A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination might add activity to MAB and MAC treatment. The bedaquiline/clarithromycin combination might have lower activity compared with bedaquiline alone for MAC treatment.Emerging Pharmacologic Therapies BedaquilineA New Approach Avibactam with Carbapenems??• Combination of avibactam and carbapenems exhibit enhanced potencies against drug resistant Mycobacterium abscessus. Kaushik, A et al Future Microbiol 2017 28 resistant isolates of M abscessus• Avibactam was able to restore the MICs of tebipenem, ertapenem, and panipenem against M abscessus to therapeutically achievable concentrations• New Tetracycline Analogs• Omadacycline (oral) / Eravacycline (IV)• In vitro data against drug resistant M. Abscessus• Promising alternative to IV Tigecycline• Favorable MICs• Lower toxicityEmerging Pharmacologic Therapies tetracycline analogsBax H, et al. J Antimicrob Chemother 2019 (Netherlands) Kaushi, A, et al Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 2019 (Hopkins)Surgery • Indications for surgery: medication unresponsive (drug resistant; large cavities); hemoptysis; uncontrolled symptoms; ? Debulking of disease (Robotic Surgery in NTM: Abstract in preparation on NYU experience)• Safety Mitchell, J Ann Thorac Surg 2008; Eur Journ CV surg 2011• Microbiologic efficacy Griffith AJRCCM 2006; Nelson Ann Thor Surg 1998; Griffith AJRCCM 1993 M abscessus disease treatment success• Jeon 2009 (med) vs (med + surg)• Jarand 2011 (med) vs (med +surg)Possible Future Treatments New antimicrobial formulations•Oral amikacin•Inhaled clofazimine Non antimicrobial drugs•Inhaled GS CMF•Inhaled nitric oxide Other•BacteriophageTHANK YOU!Section Chiefs MeetingOctober 23, 2017Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine