approved for children 5 to 11, care teams at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital have been hearing this question a lot. And teams from Sala Institute have worked hard to make getting this vaccine, and other needles and procedures, as pain free as possible for children. One of the care teams’ priorities is making sure that children are able to successfully manage the experience, says Chris Brown, director, Therapeutic Recreation, Child Life & Creative Arts Therapies, part of Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care. Brown and her team have expertise in providing age-appropriate information and helping to keep children distracted during the procedure. “We always consider what we can do to make the experience positive,” she says. Tucker, age five, is comforted by sitting on his mother’s lap while receiving a COVID-19 vaccination, part of Sala’s Comfort 5 Plan “When you think of going to a hospital, it’s rarely something you look forward to, but when it came to getting my kids vaccinated at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, the experience couldn’t have been any more pleasant,” says David, who brought his daughter and son to Hassenfeld from their home in Hoboken, NJ, to be vaccinated. Lessening anxiety before it builds The COVID-19 vaccination needle is very thin and the vaccine is given very quickly, but of course, some children still get anxious, says Brown. Anxiety can build while waiting. Since the Vaccine Center is located in the lobby of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Brown and her team use the giant wall mural of Manhattan sights to entertain children, asking them to find different landmarks. Inside the treatment bays where vaccines are administered, kids can play with bubble guns, glitter wands, toys, and other fun items. “They couldn’t wait to get behind the curtain the instant they saw the bubbles floating,” says David. “When all was done, it was the bubbles, the stickers, and the staff’s distractions that they recalled. They seemed to have missed that a needle was used at all.” “Once a child is upset, they usually can’t calm down easily,” says Brown, “so it’s best to distract them and give them an alternative to focus on besides the needle.” Distractions also include counting games and singing, according to Brown, who worked with the nurses in the vaccine center on several techniques. Five steps to maximize comfort Distraction is one technique in the Comfort 5 Plan, a protocol implemented by the Sala team to decrease pain and increase comfort consistently for all pediatric patients during an invasive procedure. The Comfort 5 Plan includes five steps: Partnership with patient/family Positioning the child for comfort Numbing Distraction Sucrose/Breastfeeding When the COVID-19 vaccine was approved for children, Ashley Kydes, MD, medical director of Sala’s Pediatric Pain Management Program, collaborated with the nursing staff on a refresher program on comfort measures while giving an injection. A big part of the process is giving children control, Dr. Kydes says. “A lot of pain and anxiety management rests on letting a child decide how they want to be treated,” she adds “First, we partner with the patient and the family, asking them if there’s anything we can do to make it better for them. “We ask if the child would like to sit on a parent’s or caregiver’s lap, or sit alone,” she says. “We let them decide if they want to be distracted by a toy or a song, and give them the option of what will make it better. Sometimes the parent will help guide them in a decision.” Dr. Kydes also suggests that parents begin preparing children beforehand for any type of shot by discussing the benefits. “Explain that it’ll only pinch for a second, but that the lasting effects will protect them from getting sick and prevent future pain,” she says. The comfort and distraction measures are working, according to the clinicians, who say the COVID-19 vaccine program is going very well. A Manhattan mother says her children had a very good experience getting vaccinated recently at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. “It was an excellent experience with amazing nurses who were kind, caring, and gentle. They provided activities to distract the children that helped pass the time,” she says. “It was great to be scheduled so quickly, easily, and conveniently.” Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program We have doctors in New York City and on Long Island. 844-698-4636 Many conditions that can affect the health of your unborn baby can be diagnosed prior to birth, thanks to advances in medical technology. At NYU Langone’s Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program, our doctors provide the expert care needed to ensure the healthiest birth possible for you and your baby. includes leading experts in maternal–fetal medicine, genetics, and diagnostic testing, as well as highly specialized pediatric experts from . Their specialties, which are uniquely focused on infants and children, include general surgery , neurosurgery, cardiovascular surgery , neonatology, urology nephrology , and ear, nose, and throat care. We have received advanced perinatal care certification from The Joint Commission, recognizing our excellence in caring for mothers and newborns. Our , along with our obstetric and maternal–fetal medicine services, have been designated by New York State as a Regional Perinatal Center, meaning our doctors provide the highest available level of care for high risk pregnancies.  In our Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit , our doctors provide treatment for the most complex heart conditions, and our has the best risk-adjusted survival rate of any hospital in New York State. Prenatal Diagnosis We use the latest diagnostic technology to determine the health of your baby while he or she is still in the womb. This includes three- and four-dimensional ultrasound, fetal MRI, and fetal echocardiogram starting as early as 11 weeks of pregnancy. Imaging appointments take place at our locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Our experts provide screening, monitoring, and treatment for expectant mothers experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn About Our Maternal–Fetal Services Prenatal tests to evaluate the health of your baby, including fetal blood sampling, chorionic villus sampling, fetal tissue biopsy, amniocentesis, and fetoscopy, are available. We also offer genetic screening for chromosomal abnormalities and other conditions that can be inherited from one or both parents. We manage a host of conditions that can be diagnosed before birth, including complications that can occur during twin pregnancies and developmental conditions that can affect your baby’s heart, lungs, abdominal wall, and other body systems. Prenatal Treatments If your baby has a condition that can be treated before birth, experts at the Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program are skilled at the following procedures: amnioreduction to achieve a healthy amount of amniotic fluid fetal injections of medications fetal shunt placement to treat urinary tract blockage or fluid buildup in the chest fetal blood transfusion to treat anemia ex utero intrapartum treatment, also known as EXIT procedure, to treat airway obstruction, severe lung lesions, and certain tumors radiofrequency ablation to treat certain fetal tumors fetoscopic laser photocoagulation of placental vessels, a minimally invasive treatment that stops blood transfer between fetuses in twin pregnancies Our team of neonatologists care for your child after birth, providing immediate access to any additional treatment or therapies your child may need. If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, or an expectant mother who has received a diagnosis at another hospital and would like to refer yourself for care, please call 844-NYU-4MFM ( Our medical team includes experts in maternal–fetal medicine, neonatology, genetics, and numerous pediatric specialties. Ashley S. Roman Program Co-Director Jason C. Fisher Tracy Adams Max M. April Pediatric Otolaryngologist Sean M. Bailey Neonatologist Donna J. Better Sara G. Brubaker Melissa A. Busovsky-McNeal Martin Chavez Anne J. Chun Roberto L. Flores Pediatric Plastic Surgeon Viktor Flores Pediatric Urologist Gillian L. Henry Hye J. Heo Eveline Teresa Hidalgo Emina Hodzic Grace S. Hyun Wendy L. Kinzler Keith A. Kuenzler Pediatric Surgeon View All 53 Doctors & 53 Resources for Children and Families We partner with children and their families to deliver expert medical and surgical care. Learn More About Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital We care for children with congenital heart defects and other heart problems. Learn More About the Pediatric Congenital Heart Program We provide cardiac care to babies and children before and after heart surgery. Learn More About the Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit Care for Newborns A Clinical Collaboration Helps Mothers & Their Babies Sala partners with NYU Grossman School of Medicine to provide lessons in family-centered care and communications to pediatric residents. Since its inception, has collaborated with the Pediatric Residency Program at NYU Grossman School of Medicine to teach trainees best practices in family-centered care and communication. The cornerstone of this partnership is the Pediatric Residency Communication Curriculum, in which residents benefit from the expertise of both experienced clinicians and Sala’s Patient and Family Faculty members. Patient and Family Faculty are teens or parents of children who are receiving or recently received care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. “Effective physician-parent communication skills are foundational in Pediatrics,” says Heather B. Howell, MD, director of the Pediatric Residency Program. “The objective of the communications curriculum program is to provide the residents with tools to optimize their communication skills.” Over 100 pediatric residents have participated in Sala’s Pediatric Residency Communication Curriculum developed in partnership with the Pediatric Residency Program at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Building skills over three years The curriculum’s challenging, real-life scenarios take place over the course of the trainee’s three-year residency. Each scenario involves role-plays with an actor and are observed by an experienced clinician and a family faculty member. “The simulations we provide to residents allows them to learn about and practice family communication in a very hands-on way,” says Rachel Ramsey, MHA, administrative director at Sala Institute. “They receive direct, actionable feedback from Sala Family Faculty members and experienced physicians that they can apply in their everyday interactions with patients and families.” Practicing increasingly difficult conversations In year one, the focus is on learning to deliver relationship-centered care. An actor plays the family member while the resident goes through a simulation disclosing a minor medical error to the family. After the simulation, the resident, actor, family faculty, and physician debrief using Sala’s patient and family-centered core competencies as their guide. In year two, residents learn skills to handle challenging conversations with patients or parents. This time, the simulation involves a baby who is unintentionally not receiving enough food at home. The resident must make the actor parent aware of the child’s failure to thrive while maintaining rapport. Debriefs review how to have conversations with families in challenging circumstances that impact their child’s health and wellbeing. “Recently, I had to tell a mother that her premature infant was not responding to the therapies used to treat his illness. The mother had been suffering and experiencing significant distress,” says Dr. Dr. Jenna Berson, a recent graduate of the Pediatric Residency Program. “I could feel myself wanting to jump in and reassure her, but I was guided by the discussion with the Sala family advisor and spent more time quietly listening to this mother share what she was feeling without offering her blanket statements of reassurance.” In their final year, residents learn to manage difficult conversations in three simulated discussions: expressing concern for the family’s intentional physical harm to a child, a conversation in the emergency room about a possible new cancer diagnosis after what was supposed to be a routine well baby visit, and disclosing a serious medical error. The third year closes with an interactive session co-led by Family Faculty members and the residency program director. Family faculty offer their personal perspectives on doctor-family communication during some of the most pivotal moments in their children’s lives. Lasting impact on graduates “What families shared was often directly applicable to the next conversation I was having with a parent and the feedback has stayed with me during my residency and now into my fellowship,” says Dr. Berson. To date, more than 100 pediatric residents have participated in at least one year of the program, which began in 2019. In June 2022, all 20 graduating residents were the first cohort to experience all three years of the curriculum. Sala Institute provides vital supportive services and resilience programs to children and families and partners with healthcare providers to deliver the safest, highest quality care possible at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. This powerful combination of services helps children heal and families feel supported. This type of care is absolutely essential, and it is made possible with generous philanthropic support. Support the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care. A story by Mahathi V. A lot can happen in a year. You can receive life-changing news, go from healthy to hospital-bound, and make new connections that will stay with you for a lifetime. For me, 2022 was a year I could have never imagined. In February, I was diagnosed with gastric cancer. In March, I had surgery. In the summer, chemo. The winter, immunotherapy. As a PhD student studying epidemiology at NYU School of Global Public Health and research coordinator in NYU Langone Health’s Department of Population Health, I was used to viewing health in terms of statistics and scientific research, so when my diagnosis came in, I was scared about my own health and future—and where I would land among the numbers. The challenges piled up from there, and during each setback and success, I had supporters by my side: my husband and parents, but also my surgeon, my gastroenterologist, my oncologist, nurses, technicians, therapists, and staff in all corners of NYU Langone and its Perlmutter Cancer Center. I found it was the people in my life—old and new—that got me through the toughest moments. It started as heartburn. At least I thought it was. Like most early 30-somethings, I was hopeful Tums and some light diet changes would solve my issues. Everyone gets heartburn. Why would an otherwise healthy young person need to see a doctor about it? But when my heartburn transformed into debilitating stomach pains, my family urged me to seek help. After an emergency room visit and appointments with different doctors, I ended up at NYU Langone with GI specialist Bart Kummer, MD. My first endoscopy revealed a large peptic ulcer. A follow-up uncovered something more drastic: behind the ulcer was a cancerous tumor. From there, Dr. Kummer and a team of other outstanding specialists helped me navigate my immediate future. Paul Oberstein, MD, met with me about my cancer outlook, Elizabeth Fino, MD, consulted with me about my husband’s and my family planning, and Paresh Shah, MD, met with me to discuss my surgery options. About a week after my initial diagnosis, we had a plan in place for my next steps. Mahathi and Dr. Paresh Shah My surgeon became like an uncle to me. From Day 1, I felt very connected to Dr. Paresh Shah. He seemed like an incredibly kind person, and I trusted him immediately. I think that’s critical for a patient, especially for someone who’s never had surgery before in her life. The surgery was no easy task either. Dr. Shah, with the help of a robot, laparoscopically removed 80 percent of my stomach and 100 percent of the tumor. He cared not just about doing the surgery right and doing the surgery well but also about my quality of life after the surgery. It didn’t feel like he was focused only on getting the job done and moving on to the next patient. It felt like he was really invested in me as a patient and my well-being, and my parents felt the same way. My parents were essential to my recovery, and they also built deep connections with my NYU Langone care team. When my dad had three pages of questions following my surgery, Dr. Shah patiently answered every single one and gave my dad time out of his very busy schedule. When I suffered a terrifying episode weeks after the surgery and fainted in the shower, my parents took me all the way from their home in Princeton, New Jersey, where I was recovering, to NYU Langone’s Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services in Manhattan. Everyone stepped up to help me through my journey. Four weeks after surgery and a frightening bout with COVID-19, I received pathology results showing my journey was not yet complete. I needed chemotherapy. Dr. Oberstein at Perlmutter Cancer Center is truly the nicest person that I have ever met. He’s so calm and kind, and I think being an oncologist is the perfect profession for him because when you meet him, your worries just dissipate. They just go away. My bonds within NYU Langone deepened over the next few months. My weekly chemotherapy visits, while exhausting, turned into social meetups with the nurses. I looked forward to seeing the people who cared for me, formed real friendships with them, and even requested to see certain nurses on a regular basis. We connected and got to know each other, and I got the chance to talk about something other than my health, like discussing the latest Beyoncé album with Ginelle and Adiel. I never felt scared or alone there. I always felt like I could ask questions and be heard. I look to the future with hope. A year after receiving my cancer diagnosis, I’m continuing immunotherapy and looking forward with hope and positivity. I faced challenges I certainly hadn’t expected, but after surgery, chemotherapy, and countless visits to NYU Langone’s clinics, I’m trying to resume a part of my old life: completing my PhD, working, spending time with friends and family, and planning to start a family of my own. For me as a researcher, it’s important to know that my doctors are keeping up with the current literature and incorporating the latest innovations into their practice. I could see how much my providers were doing behind the scenes to make sure they were on the front lines of their work. My experience as a patient at NYU Langone has had an impact on my work for my PhD as well: I’ve decided to alter my research topic to focus on adults who smoke cigarettes and vape e-cigarettes with gastric ulcers, gastrointestinal bleeding, and gastric cancer. I have tremendous gratitude for my new NYU Langone family. I never knew the extent to which my colleagues and community would go to support me as well as the other thousands of people facing cancer in New York. When I asked Dr. Shah what I could do to repay him for his lifesaving care, he simply replied, “I just want you to finish your PhD. Send me a photo of you at graduation. That’s what I want to see.” That’s something my dad would have said to me. The kind of care NYU Langone provides—it really does make you feel like you’re part of the family. Our doctors see patients in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Endometriosis Symptom Questionnaire At NYU Langone’s Endometriosis Center, we understand the profound impact that can have on various aspects of your life. The condition, which occurs when tissue from the uterine lining spreads and attaches to other pelvic areas, goes beyond mere physical discomfort—it can cause profound pelvic pain, especially during menstruation and sexual intercourse. Endometriosis can also impact fertility, sexual health, and overall quality of life. Endometriosis Center Webinar Series Our experts host live webinars on topics related to endometriosis, including pain, fertility, and treatment options. Learn More About Our Webinars At NYU Langone, our team understands these challenges. We know that the success of any treatment plan lies in focusing on you. Our treatment strategies address your symptoms and prioritize your personal health goals. Diagnosing Endometriosis When you first meet with us, we want to learn as much as we can about your medical history, including how long you have experienced symptoms and when they occur. We also perform a targeted physical examination to better understand the source of your pelvic pain. This thorough assessment forms the foundation of your treatment plan. VIDEO: Gynecologist Dr. Kathy Huang talks about her team of medical experts at the Endometriosis Center who specialize in treating women who have endometriosis. In advanced cases, endometriosis can spread to surrounding areas, such as the bowel or bladder. If this is suspected, we may recommend additional diagnostic measures. Our skilled radiologists, who specialize in endometriosis imaging, may conduct an MRI scan or targeted pelvic ultrasound to better understand the best treatment approach, which may include surgery. Our Treatment Approach If you prefer nonsurgical options and are not actively trying to conceive, our specialists can work with you to determine the most suitable medical treatment . This may include oral contraceptives, hormone therapy, and pain medication. When surgical treatment is the best option for relieving your symptoms, you are matched with the surgeon best suited to your treatment needs. Our surgeons use minimally invasive techniques, including laparoscopic and robotic-assisted surgical techniques , to remove endometrial growths and scar tissue. These techniques rely on very small incisions, which result in faster recovery time and less discomfort. These procedures can increase the ability to conceive. If endometriosis has spread to surrounding organs, we bring together a team of surgeons who ensure that every aspect of your condition is addressed with expertise and precision. Our commitment is to provide you with a holistic and personalized treatment journey that leads to a reduction or elimination of symptoms, promoting your wellbeing at every step. Recognizing the debilitating impact of pain on both physical and emotional health, we offer advanced pain relief therapies, including nerve blocks and trigger point injections, to alleviate pain and reduce swelling and inflammation. Additionally, we can connect you with who provide rehabilitation therapies to ease pelvic pain. Our Support Programs and Services At NYU Langone, our mental health providers, including our sexual health therapist, address concerns involving intimacy and the emotions that can accompany life with endometriosis. The Leveraging Integrative Health in the Treatment of Endometriosis (LIGHTE) Program offers resources to help you manage the physical and emotional effects of endometriosis treatment. Our weekly meditation group, held in partnership with NYU Langone’s , promotes improved sleep, stress reduction, and overall wellbeing. Patients can also benefit from other integrative health services, including the Mind–Body Patient Bedside Care Program during a hospital stay and outpatient services such as acupuncture treatment. In this free series, our diverse team of experts covers topics such as pain management, fertility, and sexual wellness. Visit NYU Langone’s YouTube channel for an archive of all our videos. Connect with an Expert By providing information about your symptoms, we can connect you with an endometriosis expert to learn more about diagnosis and treatment options. Submit the Endometriosis Symptom Questionnaire Connect with Our Experts Many individuals with endometriosis experience years of pain and unnecessary delays in diagnosis before receiving care. We encourage you to take our to connect with one of our experts and learn more about diagnosis and treatment options. Your journey to relief and wellbeing begins with us. Our surgeons, radiologists, reproductive endocrinologists, and experts in pain management and sex therapy address all aspects of life with endometriosis. Kathy Huang Chady Atallah Colorectal Surgeon Mitchell A. Bernstein Catherine W. Chan Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgeon Erica Dun Gynecologist Christopher N. Eswar Nicole M. Hindman Abdominal Imaging Specialist William C. Huang Urologic Oncologist Meera K. Kirpekar Kelsey Kossl Kopal S. Kulkarni Interventional Radiologist Ted T. Lee Director, Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Frederick L. Licciardi Reproductive Endocrinologist Ruth A. Tessler Virginia A. Sadock Psychiatrist 212-545-5400 At age 60, I ran my first marathon for NYU Langone As a palliative care social work manager, it’s my job to reach beyond medicine to comfort people with serious illnesses. I supervise a team of social workers at NYU Langone Health who have dedicated their careers to understanding the needs of patients and giving them fulfilling experiences in the face of health crises. Sometimes it’s a simple gesture like helping a family member with parking. Other times, it’s coordinating a wedding in our hospital so terminally ill parents can see their adult children get married. Our days our often not easy, but having the ability to bring people together during a time of need can be a very beautiful thing. I find it a privilege to be able to enter the lives of patients and families and witness their most tender moments. Over the years, my brother Brian has led a life dedicated to helping others as well. As the executive director for sales for the New England Patriots and a passionate sports fan, Brian started the nonprofit Golf Fights Cancer alongside his longtime friend Jay Monahan, who is now the commissioner of the PGA Tour. Their goal was to harness the philanthropic power of the sports community and raise funds for cancer-related charities in honor of a friend who died from cancer. Brian has run more than 25 Boston Marathons in association with Golf Fights Cancer, fundraising for cancer-based organizations in the Boston area and beyond. At age 60, I thought it was time to start catching up with Brian and decided to run my first marathon in support of NYU Langone’s palliative care team. Doing the hard work with a mission to help When I got the idea to run the Boston Marathon, I knew it was now or never because I’m getting older. After a trip to Boston’s famous Heartbreak Hill early on in my training, I experienced the strain of how difficult this feat would be. There was definitely some heartbreak involved during that day of training, but my brother and I laugh about it now knowing what we ended up achieving. From January to April, I took advantage of the mild winter and ran through the neighborhoods near my new home in Westchester and visited the NYU Langone running clinic to get some tips on how to maximize my potential as a runner. Throughout these months, I also reached out to the people in my life to help with my fundraising goal. The support I got from friends and family was totally overwhelming and heartwarming. Across the board, everyone has been touched by cancer—either themselves or with a family member. It’s a cause so universal that everyone has a story to tell and a personal reason to give. Together, we ended up raising $226,200, a fitting and symbolic number for the race’s 26.2 miles. Across the board, everyone has been touched by cancer—either themselves or with a family member. It’s a cause so universal that everyone has a story to tell and a personal reason to give. The funds raised will help my colleagues on the palliative care team continue to go above and beyond for their patients. A windfall of new possibilities for palliative care There are many services we’ll be able to offer with the funds raised. We can be as creative as possible to provide patients care beyond their expectations. While the marathon was a gut-wrenching multi-hour event, bringing my loved ones together and awarding my team at NYU Langone with the ability to change lives was 100 percent worth it. I’ve still got more than 25 marathons to go to catch up with Brian, but this one meant the world to me—and to the cancer patients in the palliative care unit where an everyday gesture can change one’s outlook forever. Thank you to everyone who helped me and donated to this life-changing work. And if you’ve ever thought about running a marathon in support of a cause that is meaningful to you, go for it! Samara Sweig shares her experience of having twin girls prematurely and how she’s giving back today through Sala Institute In the fall of 2013, Samara Sweig gave birth to twin girls, Tilly and Ivy, at just 28 weeks. During the many weeks that followed, specialists at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital cared for the twins around the clock in the KiDS of NYU Langone Foundation Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and tended to the needs of Samara and Louis, her husband. Today, Tilly and Ivy are thriving—and Samara participates in the Sala Family Advisory Council to pay forward her family’s transformational experience. What was it like to give birth to twins at just 28 weeks? Samara: It was frightening. There were so many unknowns and fears that came along with their birth. We didn’t know if they would be born alive, or if they would be able to breathe, because they were born so early and were so small. It was overwhelming and scary. How did you manage this fear when Tilly and Ivy were brought to the NICU after they were born? For the first 24 hours, I was really afraid to see them. But once I did, as any mother would feel, I wanted to do anything I could for them. In the NICU, babies have so many medical needs that parents can sometimes feel like bystanders. In time and with the help of the NICU staff, my husband and I learned of the different ways that we could participate in their care. I pumped around the clock so they could have Mamma’s milk. We provided them kangaroo care for hours every day. We talked to them, held their hands, and were eventually able to bottle-feed and change them. Samara, Louis and ten-year-old twins, Tilly and Ivy How are Tilly and Ivy doing now? They’re our little miracles. They’re nine years old. They’re fierce, smart, and kind. They’re tall, like their father, and beautiful. They’re strong; Ivy recently completed a 5K run and Tilly just finished the soccer season. They truly amaze us, and I constantly remind them that they can do anything—because they’ve already done the hard part. Babies born at 28 weeks don’t always thrive the way that Tilly and Ivy did, so I count my blessings every day. Receiving the care and support of this amazing children’s hospital was a huge part of their really hard and miraculous journey. The support that we got from the hospital didn’t just end the day that the girls were discharged from the NICU. It continued as we met with an interdisciplinary care team every six months for the first two years to see if they’d need any extra support during those early times. Tell us about the Sala Institute Family Advisory Council. Why did you join and what is your role? After our last visit with the NICU follow-up team eight years ago, the woman running the program told me about the Sala Family Advisory Council and asked if I might be interested in joining. It sounded exactly like something I wanted to do. After spending so much time in a hospital, you have so many thoughts on what worked well and what could have been better. It’s remarkable to be included in an opportunity where feedback from families is sought after with the goal of providing exceptional care to patients and their families. I’ve been a part of the Family Advisory Council for eight years. As council members, we’ve weighed in on unbelievable initiatives and met with the heads of most departments. We’re asked what we think of new projects and we share ideas for how to make them better. This work sounds really unique. It really is. It’s best in class. We’re very fortunate to have this caliber of children’s hospital in the New York area—one that exceeds medical standards and puts children and families at the center of its work thanks to Sala Institute. I thought I had 90 days to live. Now I’m a national powerlifting champion and training for the 2025 Senior Games in pole vault. At 70 years old, I had lived an accomplished life. I was a husband and the father of three, and had a successful career as a New York Times advertising executive. However, many of my greatest feats were yet to come: tackling cancer, dedicating my life to physical fitness, launching a championship-winning weight-lifting career, and becoming a role model for anyone who’s looking to make a change. Over Thanksgiving weekend in 2019, I was diagnosed with stage four liver cancer. I was staying with family in our country home in Upstate New York when I received the diagnosis from a local hospital and quickly made my way to New York City and NYU Langone, where I had long received care. I was shocked and stunned. After some initial research, I assumed I had about 90 days to live. But after a biopsy, NYU Langone oncologist Paul Oberstein, MD, and his team reassured me that the cancer was slow-growing and that I had every chance to live, with the caveat that I must improve my physical health, change my diet, and exercise more. “You don’t have to tell me twice,” I told Dr. Oberstein. “I’m going to be the most physically fit patient you’ve ever seen in your entire life!” What may have seemed like a joke turned into a deeply committed personal declaration. At that point, I wasn’t super active. I had quit smoking 15 years prior, but no one told me the downside of alcohol during my days entertaining international clients in the advertising world! I needed to create a regimen that would improve my fitness and help me beat this disease. From there, I was determined to be as fit as I could possibly be. I started by walking 30 minutes a day. Then I ran. I lifted weights. Then heavier weights. I changed how I ate and virtually quit drinking. I watched hours of YouTube tutorials on abdominal workouts, push-pull-legs workouts, and everything in between. My wife, Juliana, and I built a fully equipped home gym in our three-car garage during COVID to safely work out; our cars became relegated to the driveway. I logged sub-nine-minute mile times and bench-pressed my weight. Then, this past year, after five years of health progress, a minor skin cancer scare, and hours upon hours of working out and getting stronger, I entered the American Drug-Free Powerlifting Federation National Competition. Embodying my rallying cry of being the most physically fit patient ever, I won my age/weight class and was crowned over-75 champion. As Juliana put it, “If we’re going to drive five and a half hours for this, you better win…No pressure!!” Over the course of my health journey, I’ve been lucky to serve as an inspiration to my family and loved ones. My son, Paris, and daughter Tiffany now compete in body-building competitions, and my daughter Caroline has started her fitness program as well. All have developed an affinity for fitness. Having been forced to make changes myself, I now love helping others reach their health goals. “Just move!” I say. No matter your age or your fitness level, you can start with walking and simple exercises like jumping jacks to get on a path to better health. NYU Langone’s care changed my life. Although it took immense self-motivation to become a powerlifting champion, my doctors and nurses were the expert guides I needed to take on cancer. Every time you go into NYU Langone, you feel like you’re somebody special. You feel like people care for you and they bend over backward to give you the best experience they can. Another reason I love my care at NYU Langone is the online MyChart app. I can contact all my doctors, ask questions, make appointments, review all my test results, and check my medications all in one place, online 24/7. I don’t feel like a number or an ID when I’m there. I feel like I’m Paul Perkins, and they’ve done their research; they know who I am. I learned their stories, too, and have been inspired by who my doctors and nurse practitioners are as people. It took a team of healthcare professionals to get my health on course and give me the strength (no pun intended) to achieve my goals. A special thank you to Paul E. Oberstein, MD, Shantal Ginsberg, RN, Zefie Kanos, NP, Kent P. Friedman, MD, and Irvine Lee for my liver cancer treatment; Jennifer Ann Stein, MD, and Maressa C. Criscito, MD, for my skin cancer treatment; Kenneth Vera, MD, my primary care physician; and Gregory M. Katz, MD, for my heart health. Next year,