can be higher in patients who received a haploidentical transplant versus fully matched donors. As this is a disparity issue, we have been very active in conducting research to decrease the incidence of GvHD in the setting of haploidentical transplant. , we reported encouraging results using an innovative approach to prevent GvHD in patients undergoing a haploidentical transplant. In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor. A Vision for Continued Success Looking ahead, what is your vision for the future of the program? What advancements are on the horizon? Let me start by pointing to the remarkable progress that has been achieved in the past five years. As a comprehensive program accredited by the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy , we now perform a large number of transplants both in the outpatient and inpatient setting, and we maintain outstanding outcomes, which is a testament to our commitment to providing high-quality patient care. “As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past.” As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past. We will also continue to expand our transplant services for patients affected by non-cancer illnesses, such as rheumatologic conditions. Lastly, we hope to improve access to transplant for racial and ethnic minorities, which underpins our motivation to continue to develop novel haploidentical transplant approaches. Additionally, in New York State, it can be challenging for patients to come to Manhattan to receive treatment, and thus we plan to continue expanding our services to Long Island. Our mantra is: “We’re going to the patients, rather than them having to come to us.” Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA, is a clinical professor of medicine and executive director of the Blood and Marrow Transplant Program. His research interests include the development of more effective prevention regimens for graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic transplant. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Resolving a Complex Cascade of Symptoms A 35-year-old female was admitted via the ED at NYU Langone Health’s Tisch Hospital with one week of fever, nausea, intense abdominal pain, and diffuse bone pain. She had a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) with a triple-positive aPL antibody profile, HELLP syndrome, and chronic thrombocytopenia. Given the patient’s medical history, lab and imaging results, fever, and intense pain, , co-director of the Lupus Center, concluded that her presentation reflected a flare of atypical catastrophic APS (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia with involvement in her bone, bone marrow, and hepatobiliary tract. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphspholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS.” Worsening symptoms, including acute bilateral blurry vision and a nonoliguric acute kidney injury with nephrotic range proteinuria, led Dr. Belmont and colleagues to order atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) genetic testing. The test revealed variants in both the CFB MCP CD46 ) genes for complement regulatory proteins. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphospholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS,” he says. Effectively managing and eventually resolving the case relied on unveiling and treating the atypical HUS and consulting with specialists in multiple departments to address the refractory CAPS complicated by bone, bone marrow, liver, biliary, choroid/retina, kidney, and jejunum involvement. One month after her hospital admission, the patient was well enough to be discharged. “Close and frequent consultations allowed our interdisciplinary care team to quickly respond to an evolving and cascading suite of symptoms,” says Dr. Belmont. A Highly Complicated Presentation The patient’s test results revealed a highly complicated presentation and included anemia, thrombocytopenia, mild peripheral schistocytes, and elevated liver enzymes. A CT scan showed increased focal intrahepatic biliary ductal dilation; magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) showed new focal biliary dilation and hypodense hepatic lesions; and MRI showed biliary stricture, likely portal vein thrombosis. The ADAMTS13 result was normal. The initial diagnosis was flare of atypical catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia. Managing a Cascading Crisis To manage a cascading crisis, treatment included heparin, plasma exchange, steroids, cyclophosphamide and rituximab, and supportive care. However, complications included atraumatic Purtscher’s retinopathy, diffuse microvascular injury involving chorioretina and glomerular microvasculature, complement-mediated hemolytic uremic syndrome, acute hematemesis and hematochezia with severe acute blood loss anemia, and thrombotic microangiographic hemolytic anemia. Interdisciplinary Treatment Interdisciplinary treatment was required and included eculizumab to prevent generation of C5a and C5b-9 complement components, nicardipine IV for accelerated hypertension, and anticoagulation, plasma exchange, and steroid therapy. For the resolution, the patient’s visual loss was restored; nausea, bleeding, and elevated liver tests were resolved; significant bicytopenia with anemia and thrombocytopenia and narcotic-requiring diffuse bone pain were resolved; and the acute kidney injury improved. H. Michael Belmont, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director of clinical affairs in the Division of Rheumatology. He is medical director of NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, where he also serves as director of infusion services, and co-director of the Lupus Center. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 A 52-year-old female presented to the emergency department at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn complaining of acute-onset middle back pain that had started three days prior. She described the pain as sharp and radiating to her neck, rated the intensity as 8 on a scale of 1 to 10, and stated that it worsened with deep inspiration or other movements. Three weeks before her visit, the patient had experienced sinus pain, a cough, and a low-grade fever. She tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and self-quarantined. Her medical history included a diagnosis of scleromyxedema (SM). The condition causes papular and sclerodermoid eruption in the setting of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. The patient had also been diagnosed with Hashimoto’s disease and asthma, and had been receiving intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) for the past seven years. In the ED, however, she did not present with associated symptoms such as fever, chills, shortness of breath, chest pain, abdominal pain, or headache. “We have learned that SARS-CoV-2 triggers a severe inflammatory response that leads to a cytokine storm and endotheliitis, resulting in arterial and venous thrombosis,” says Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH , who led the rheumatology team involved in the patient’s care. “My initial thought was that our patient could have had an acute pulmonary embolism. However, she lacked the hallmark presenting complaint of chest pain.” Arriving at an Aortitis Diagnosis The patient was alert and oriented, and her vitals were normal with the exception of an elevated 154/94 blood pressure reading and heart rate of 90. Her heart, lung, abdomen, and extremities exams were all normal, with no rash, skin tightness, or lymphadenopathy. An initial electrocardiogram and chest X-ray were both unremarkable. Likewise, the patient had a normal complete blood count and C-reactive protein levels, but an abnormally high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 120 mm per hour, indicating inflammation. The ED team performed a chest CT with IV contrast, which was negative for pulmonary embolism but showed distal aortic stranding, a concerning sign of aortitis. Subsequently, the patient underwent an abdominal CT with contrast that revealed wall thickening and perivascular stranding of the distal thoracic aorta extending inferiorly to the level of the origin of celiac axis, a finding consistent with segmental aortitis. Multiple non-infectious and infectious etiologies for aortitis have been described and Dr. Homsi’s team ruled out many of them through extensive lab tests. The patient’s antinuclear antibody test titer of 1:160 showed a homogeneous pattern, however. She tested positive for SS-A/Ro antibodies and borderline positive for anti-RNP and anti-CCP antibodies, but negative for rheumatoid factor, anti-dsDNA, anti-Smith, and anti-SSB antibodies. Treatment Resolves Painful Condition After the patient was placed on high-dose (500 mg per day) intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 days, she was switched to oral prednisone (60 mg per day) and her back pain resolved during the hospitalization. Methotrexate was added to her treatment regimen and she was successfully tapered off prednisone. A repeat abdomen/chest CT three months later showed that her aortitis had completely resolved; her ESR had also normalized. The patient continues to receive methotrexate, as well as IVIG for her SM, without any signs of relapse. Beyond established etiologies of aortitis, doctors have reported large vessel vasculitis after infection with SARS-CoV-2, while others have linked systemic vascular dysfunction and endothelial cell injury in the setting of an aberrant cytokine response to the viral infection.. In fact, clinicians have described multiple vasculitic phenomena such as cutaneous vasculitis, Kawasaki-like disease spectrum, and pauci-immune thrombogenic vasculopathy in association with COVID-19. As probable explanations, they have proposed factors such as direct viral endotheliitis, complement-mediated vascular injury, and autoimmunity. Because the patient developed aortitis very shortly after her SARS-CoV-2 infection, Dr. Homsi says he believes a hyperinflammatory state triggered by SARS-CoV-2 was likely behind her acute condition. Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan “Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan,” Dr. Homsi says. “Fortunately, an immunosuppressant therapy including intravenous methylprednisolone has shown to be effective in treating the hyperinflammatory state in such patients.” Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and section chief of Rheumatology at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Study results show that 16 percent of 329 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) had a reactive SARS-CoV-2 antibody test, compared with approximately 20 percent seroprevalence in New York City. Seropositive patients were more likely to be Hispanic, and no association with immunosuppressant medications, hydroxychloroquine, or steroid use was found. ADAPTED FROM: Lancet Rheumatol. 2021;3(8):e585–594. Among patients with SLE and COVID-19, 83 percent developed an antibody response to SARS-CoV-2; 62 percent were on immunosuppressants, 88 percent retained an antibody response for up to 10 weeks, and 70 percent retained an antibody response for up to 40 weeks. ADAPTED FROM: 2021;3(8):e585–e594. The immune dysregulation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and frequent treatment with immunosuppressants have prompted concerns that these patients could be at greater risk for COVID-19. A large study in led by assistant professor of rheumatology , however, found that neither lupus-specific factors nor immunosuppressant use increased the risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2. Among patients in a multiracial and multiethnic cohort who tested positive, most produced a significant and durable SARS-CoV-2 IgG response. “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants.” “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants,” Dr. Saxena says. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks Congenital heart block (CHB) is a key consideration when managing rheumatologic patients during pregnancy. The disorder complicates 2 percent of anti-Ro/SSA antibody-positive pregnancies and carries substantial perinatal morbidity and mortality. Almost all of the survivors require lifelong cardiac pacing. Data suggests ant-inflammatory treatment of primary and secondary (emerging) CHB can prevent progression to complete block, yet the optimal surveillance strategy to detect emergent conduction disease is unknown. To investigate an at-home method in which pregnant women listen for rhythm abnormalities, , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, is collaborating with Bettina Cuneo, MD, a professor of pediatrics and obstetrics at the University of Colorado. Their Surveillance and Treatment to Prevent Fetal Atrioventricular Block Likely to Occur Quickly (STOP BLOQ) trial, supported by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, launched in 2020. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything.” The multicenter trial is assessing whether anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers can utilize doppler-based fetal heart rate monitoring (FHRM) at home to identify second degree block, and whether rapid treatment with dexamethasone and intravenous immunoglobulin can reverse the conduction defect. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything,” Dr. Buyon says. At-Home Monitoring Enables Early Warnings To date, the team has enrolled 158 patients. The trial is first stratifying anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers, based on research conducted by Robert Clancy, PhD , professor of medicine, that evaluates the levels of anti-Ro60 and anti-Ro52 antibodies. Mothers with high titers—defined as being above or equal to the lowest titer obtained for 50 mothers with previous offspring with CHB—are instructed by video and personal interviews to perform FHRM. From 17 to 25 weeks of gestation, the mothers conduct FHRM three times per day in addition to undergoing weekly or biweekly fetal echocardiograms. Mothers text the audio sounds to a central data site. For those FHRM results that the mothers deem abnormal, their texts are immediately sent to an on-call cardiologist for evaluation. If the results are considered abnormal, the mothers are referred for an emergency fetal echocardiogram within six hours. Enrolled mothers have had good overall compliance with at-home FHRM so far, and early experiences have helped refine the trial methods, says Dr. Buyon. After one mother reported difficulty using the monitor, concern over the potential for an abnormality prompted an early echocardiogram that showed tertiary block that was refractory to treatment. The results prompted additional teaching to help enrolled mothers improve their ability to conduct the at-home surveillance. Successful Reversal After Early Detection Another mother reported an abnormality based on her own monitoring that prompted an urgent echocardiogram confirming second degree block. Treatment was initiated within several hours and six days later the fetal heart rate had increased from 70 to 150 beats per minute, with most periods showing a normal sinus rhythm. “That reversal after the abnormality was detected and treated in less than 12 hours is a remarkable milestone. It supports the importance of what this study is trying to accomplish,” Dr. Buyon says. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care.” Although the initial results are encouraging, Dr. Buyon cautions that the study is still in its early stages, with a goal of enrolling 1,300 patients over the next four years. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care,” Dr. Buyon says. New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services A new program embedded within the rheumatology service provides genetic evaluations of patients with atypical autoinflammatory disease manifestations. The program builds on pioneering research findings that point to common genetic underpinnings across certain rheumatic conditions. “When we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them.” “Clinical diagnoses are helpful, but when we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them,” says , an assistant professor in the Dr. Beck joined the faculty in 2021 and launched the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program a few months later. While Dr. Beck is leading the genetic evaluations, genetic counselor Anna Cantor, MA, MS, works with patients and their families to understand the testing procedure, its implications for their care, and the potential genetic risk to other relatives. The program is accepting referrals of patients whose inflammatory conditions have not responded well to treatment, or for those with unusual clinical presentations. New Options for Vexing VEXAS As a complement to his clinical work, Dr. Beck’s research uses cellular and animal models to explore the genetic and molecular underpinnings of rheumatic diseases with unexplained inflammation. Among adult patients, for example, recent research has underscored the importance of somatic mutations in driving age-related diseases. In a groundbreaking 2020 , Dr. Beck and colleagues reported that somatic mutations in the UBA1 gene on chromosome X cause VEXAS (vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, somatic) syndrome, seen almost exclusively in male patients. In 2021, the American Society of Hematology named the research group’s new disease discovery “ This Year’s Best in Hematology Diagnosis Many of the patients in the study were previously given different rheumatic and hematologic diagnoses, such as relapsing polychondritis or myelodysplastic syndrome, but carried the same genetic mutation. “It shows that these seemingly different diseases have the same underlying etiology,” Dr. Beck says. “Secondly, it helps us understand that in some cases, the clinical diagnosis isn’t anywhere near as helpful as the genetic diagnosis.” Leveraging the information from the genetic evaluation has guided clinicians toward more effective VEXAS syndrome therapies such as bone marrow transplants, Dr. Beck explains. Expanding Genetics-Driven Insights Dr. Beck envisions that genetic evaluations will open up new diagnostic and therapeutic options for many atypical conditions. “You can take patients out of these undiagnosed categories and give them a very highly specific diagnosis, which can have big prognostic and treatment implications,” he says. The Center for Human Genetics & Genomics has placed a growing emphasis on integrating genetics-driven personalized medicine into medical specialties. Given NYU Langone Health’s robust clinical practice in rheumatology, Dr. Beck says, it made sense to merge that strength with the medical center’s unique genetics infrastructure. “This is pairing the best of both worlds,” he says. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis Upon examining DNASE1L3 activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), researchers found the vast majority of patients with SLE had no mutation in the DNASE1L3 gene, and more than 50 percent of patients with sporadic SLE and kidney involvement had reduced DNASE1L3 activity. ADAPTED FROM: JEM . 2021;218(5): e20201138 Researchers also found autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3 increase: Patients with sporadic SLE also have more neutralizing autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3, suggesting a physical—not genetic—activation. ADAPTED FROM: Rare inherited null mutations in the DNASE1L3 gene cause childhood lupus characterized by high titers of anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies and renal involvement. In a Journal of Experimental Medicine , researchers led by Boris Reizis, PhD , examined DNASE1L3 enzyme activity in a cohort of patients with severe sporadic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Their research identified a surprisingly common nongenetic disease mechanism, in which autoantibodies harbored by the patients react with the DNASE1L3 enzyme. “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent.” “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent,” Dr. Reizis says. The DNASE1L3 enzyme helps break down microparticle-associated extracellular DNA. A reduction in its activity leads to an increase in extracellular DNA, which can prompt the immune system to increase the level of dsDNA antibodies and potentially result in SLE with nephritis. “Rare genetic mutations can put a spotlight on the protein target, and by knowing the underlying problem one may be able to apply it to a much larger population of patients,” Dr. Buyon adds. Boris Reizis, PhD, is the Samuel A. Brown Professor of Medicine and a professor of pathology. He is also co-director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity and director of the Translational Immunology Center. His research focuses on stem cells in normal hematopoiesis and leukemia; dendritic cell development and function; and mechanisms of autoimmunity. Hearing & Balance Center Vestibular Testing and other balance disorders are diagnosed by an otolaryngologist—an ear, nose, and throat doctor—or a neurologist. These specialists may use a physical exam, medical history, and results from assessments conducted at the Hearing and Balance Center to help determine the cause of a balance problem in adults and children. Treatment for children is provided through the pediatric vestibular and balance disorder services Our audiologists offer a variety of balance tests, including the following: an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test to assess how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area electrocochleography, to determine whether excess pressure in the inner ear is caused by fluid buildup rotary chair testing, to assess eye movements originating in the vestibular system in response to a chair turning back and forth vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials testing, to measure the natural response of your neck muscles, eye muscles, and vestibular system to certain sounds videonystagmography, visual and sensory tests to evaluate your inner ear function Please consult your physician one week before your rotary chair or videonystagmography test regarding food, medication, and alcohol restrictions. On the day of your test, please arrive in flat shoes and comfortable clothing, and do not wear any makeup or cream. Wear your contact lenses if you use them, but bring your case, solution, and glasses, as you may need to remove your contacts. that our doctors conduct helps advance knowledge of the many conditions that affect the ear. We work to enhance our patients’ care through innovative methods of identifying causes for vertigo and loss of balance. offer evidence-based clinical services to help individuals and organizations prevent and manage injury and disability, as well as early symptoms of musculoskeletal disorders. Our clinical services include evaluation and treatment in the following areas: orthopedic medicine ergonomics . We also have a work conditioning program that addresses the many obstacles an individual who has been injured faces before resuming their everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership between our providers and patients, and all patients are encouraged to become active participants in their care. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital has been named a Level 1 Children’s Surgery Center by the American College of Surgeons (ACS)—the highest designation a hospital can receive—for providing high-quality children’s surgical care. It is one of only two pediatric hospitals in New York State to achieve this prestigious verification, and among five in the Northeast. recently spoke with , director of children’s surgical services at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, about the collaboration, innovation, and excellence that go into building a world-class children’s surgical program. A Whole-Hospital Effort Dr. Fisher, congratulations on this designation. Besides meeting the rigorous qualifications for a Level 1 center, what is the secret to building a strong children’s surgical program? Dr. Fisher: Thank you, we are thrilled. It has been a whole-hospital effort. A surgical program is so much more than a well-trained surgeon. It’s the anesthesiologists, nurses, scrub team, radiologists, pathologists, social workers—the list is a mile long. But it’s also people who don’t often get recognized: the building staff; the people who turn over the rooms, who ensure all our instruments are there. It’s the patient technicians, who spend more time with the patients before and after surgery than anybody else. “NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles.” There’s an incredible inherent trust we take on when doing this job. We take that trust very seriously, and we couldn’t confidently say things are going to go perfectly if we didn’t trust each other, as well. NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles. Advocates for Patients and Families How does this collaborative, nimble environment translate to creating a culture of family-centered care? One of the big drivers that helps us deliver on that promise is . With Sala Institute, we have support from a full-time staff and innumerable support services for children. Early on, the institute focused its efforts on improving quality, safety, and family-centered care for the children in the hospital, but so many of their efforts never touched the operating room. Now, with any new initiative Sala Institute is supporting, if it even remotely involves children that will be going down a surgical pathway, our program is involved. We can push things out to all the pediatric surgeons in a block, get information back from them, and push this out to the children’s hospital and to families. This allows us to speak in a much more unified voice. For example, we listened to families and learned we weren’t communicating with them in the ways they wanted while their children were undergoing surgery. Partnering with Sala Family and Youth Advisory Councils, we’ve designed pathways to communicate more effectively with families before, during, and after surgery—and improve communication among our clinical staff. Collaboration Combined with Innovation Are there stand-out initiatives in children’s surgical services you’d like to highlight? One thing we’re proud of is that we’re able to solve complex problems in very unique ways. For instance, three out of four babies don’t survive congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS). In a recent case, we assembled a team that included maternal–fetal medicine, pediatric surgery, pediatric otolaryngology, pediatric anesthesiology, and pediatric ECMO to perform a lifesaving procedure in a partially delivered fetus. “As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives.” We also have a great collaboration between our pediatric surgeons and our adult surgical colleagues. Dr. Robert J. Cerfolio , a world-renowned thoracic surgeon, performed a on a young girl’s trachea to remove a mass—a minimally invasive approach that saved her from being in the hospital for months. In our pediatric spine program, Dr. Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri is employing spinal tethering as a way to treat scoliosis, using a series of ropes and tethers along the spine. People fly in from all over the world for this expertise. Dr. Jun Tashiro in our Adolescent Healthy Weight Program offers that puts teens on a whole new trajectory for their lives. Our pediatric cardiac surgery outcomes are some of the best in the nation, and our pediatric cardiac ICU is fantastic. While most children’s hospitals use adult interventional radiologists, NYU has a pediatric interventional radiologist, Dr. Frederic J. Bertino , who can address a host of issues for which patients would have to go elsewhere or receive more invasive procedures. Impacting Healthcare Today and Tomorrow In closing, in what ways do the families you serve here in New York inspire you? I feel blessed to practice in a city that constantly inspires us to practice in culturally sensitive ways. We’ve made sure that this spirit of achieving equity in our care models is a central pillar of our children’s surgical program, carrying through from the small projects to the big ones. Children’s surgical care requires resiliency—in your surgeons, in your processes, and especially in your families; things don’t always go as planned. I feel that we very much benefit from the fact that New Yorkers are strong and resilient. As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives and not becomes patients with chronic conditions who must rely on resources and continuous access to the healthcare system. , surgeons Flavio Malcher, MD David K. Halpern, MD Xavier Pereira, MD , specialize in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction. A hernia is considered complex if it is larger than 8 centimeters, or slightly more than 3 inches; has recurred after surgery; or results in a large portion of the abdominal contents bulging through the hernia, a condition called loss of abdominal domain. Without proper repair and abdominal wall reconstruction, complex hernias can develop complications or recur. Our surgeons have advanced training and are among the most experienced in the repair of complex hernias and abdominal wall reconstruction. They use the most sophisticated robotic surgical techniques, reducing the likelihood of recurrence. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions in Chicago Below are notable sessions this year featuring our faculty and trainees (see a full listing of ). One presentation of special interest was the late-breaking abstract, ISCHEMIA-EXTENDed Follow-Up Interim Report , which outlined interim results from the groundbreaking ISCHEMIA trial Saturday, November 5 Biomarkers of Adverse Cardiovascular Events in Chronic Coronary Disease: Data from the ISCHEMIA Trial Session: Novel Biomarker Utilization in Stable and Unstable CAD , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Rebecca Anthopolos, DrPH , Assistant Professor, Department of Population Health; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Oral Session #S103D Time: 3:24–3:34 p.m. A Circulating Genetic Signature in Psoriasis Associates with Future Cardiovascular Events Session: Prevention in Special Populations Authors: , Assistant Professor, Departments of Medicine and Pathology; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; Kamelia Drenkova; Caron Rockman, MD , Florence and Joseph Ritorto Professor of Surgical Research, Department of Surgery; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Maria Florencia Schlamp, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #3135 Time: 3–4 p.m. Development and Pilot Implementation of Two Targeted Approaches to Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support for Cardiologists to Optimize Medical Therapy for Heart Failure Session: Thinking Outside the Box: Novel Methods of Delivery of Care , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine NYU Langone Authors: Rod Aminian; Saul Blecker, MD , Professor, Department of Population Health; Ruth-Ann Diah; , Professor, Department of Population Health; , Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Department of Medicine; Arielle Nagler, MD , Associate Professor, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology; Archana Saxena, MD , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine; Adam Szerencsy, DO , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Yuhe Xia, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #2205 INOCA and MINOCA: Clinical Syndromes, Imaging and Risk Session: Not Your Father’s Heart Disease: Microvascular Coronary Function and Its Contribution to Disease Author: Location: Main Event Hall II Time: 3:20–3:30 p.m. Whole Blood Multi-Omic Characterization of the ISCHEMIA Cohort Reveals Vulnerable and Resilient Subtypes of Chronic Coronary Disease Session: Emerging Clinical Applications of Genomics and Genetics , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Ze Chen; Macintosh Cornwell; , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #1097 Time: 11 a.m.–12 p.m. Sunday, November 6 Does the Choice of Blood Pressure Agent Matter? Session: Pregnancy Compilations and Cardiovascular Outcomes Dan Halpern, MD Location: Cardiovascular Seminar N140 Time: 8:24–8:32 a.m. Session: Late-Breaking Science: Drugs and Strategies in ACS and Revascularization , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone , Professor, Department of Medicine; Michelle Chang; Aira Contreras; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Stephanie Mavromichalis; Yifan Xu, MPH , Assistant Research Scientist, Department of Population Health, NYU Langone Time: 5:39–5:49 p.m. Monday, November 7 Approach to Diagnostic Evaluation and Treatment of MINOCA Session: Ischemic Heart Disease and ACS in Women Location: Cardiovascular Seminar A101A Time: 9:54–10:06 a.m. Prevalence and Predictors of Normotensive Shock in Intermediate-Risk Pulmonary Embolism Session: Vascular Medicine Medley Location: Moderated Poster Session Science and Technology Hall Level 3 Time: 1:40–1:45 p.m. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Compared to general or spinal anesthesia, MAC-STILA anesthesia is better at maintaining a normal interoperative heart rate, yields lower pain scores, and requires a lower dose of narcotics. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. MAC-STILA is a safe and effective alternative to general or spinal anesthesia, and may reduce episodes of delirium. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct