other remote methods as needed. Information for All Visitors Please visit your loved one only when you are feeling healthy and well. All visitors must wash or sanitize hands frequently, and must stay with the patient at all times unless directed otherwise by our staff. Wearing a mask is optional, except in certain areas where it may be mandated. All visitors must wear a mask in our emergency departments. Visitors under the age of 12 are not permitted at this time, with certain exceptions. They may visit a parent who is an obstetric patient or a patient who is in an imminent end-of-life situation. Young visitors also are allowed to accompany their parent on a pediatric outpatient visit. In all cases, visitors under 12 do not count toward the two-visitor maximum. Visitors under the age of 18 must be accompanied by an adult. If a support person becomes ill during their visit, they will be asked to leave and a different support person may be designated. Visitors are required to show identification and provide information including their name, contact information, dates of visits, and the name of the patient they are visiting. Patients with confirmed COVID-19 may be permitted visitors only when our staff determines it is safe. We may need to restrict visitors to these patients when it is not possible to sufficiently control the spread of infection. Visitors who do not comply with the guidelines will be asked to leave. Visitor Policies for Our Inpatient Locations At Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street , the following policies are currently in effect. Visitors must wear any personal protective equipment (PPE) issued to them by the clinical team and be diligent in performing hand hygiene. All adult patients are permitted two visitors from 7:00AM to 9:00PM, and one visitor from 9:00PM to 7:00AM. Exceptions are made by our clinical team only when a support person is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing, such as for patients who have cognitive impairment, intellectual disability, or developmental delay. Visitation requests are granted in accordance with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service (CMS) guidelines. Pediatric patients are permitted up to six approved visitors, which may include parents, grandparents, guardians, family care partners, or other support people. Only two of these approved visitors may be at the bedside with the patient at the same time. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Labor and delivery patients are permitted two support people, including a doula if the patient has one, throughout the labor, delivery, and postpartum period. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Labor and delivery patients may also be visited by their minor children between 7:00AM and 9:00PM. In the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at Tisch Hospital , the NICU at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn , and the NICU at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island , each infant is allowed up to six approved visitors, which may include parents, grandparents, guardians, family care partners, or other support people. Only two of these approved visitors may be at the bedside with the patient at the same time. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Surgeries and Same-Day Procedures For patients having surgery or a same-day procedure at our hospitals and ambulatory locations, the following visitor policies are in place. Adult patients may be accompanied by two support people during the intake process, and they may rejoin the patient briefly during the recovery process and again during the discharge process. Visitors may wait in the designated waiting area. Exceptions may be made by our clinical team when it is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing. Pediatric patients are allowed two support people, who may be present throughout intake, recovery, and discharge process. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Our Emergency Departments In our emergency departments, including Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services The Home Depot Emergency Department at NYU Langone Health—Cobble Hill Emergency Department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Emergency Department at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island , the following policies are in effect. All visitors must wear a mask in our emergency departments. Adult patients may have one support person at the bedside, including a family member, caregiver, or another person of their choice. Exceptions are made by our clinical team only when it is medically necessary for a patient’s wellbeing. Pediatric patients may have two support people at the bedside, such as a parent, grandparent, family care partner, or another person designated by the child’s family. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for Our Ambulatory and Outpatient Locations At our ambulatory and outpatient locations, the following visitor policies are in place. Adult patients may be accompanied by two people for the duration of their visit. Pediatric patients may be accompanied by two visitors. At least one support person must be an adult age 18 or older. Visitor Policies for our Perlmutter Cancer Center Locations At our Perlmutter Cancer Center locations, the following visitor policies are in place. During Your Visit We ask guests to keep their voices low during visits so as not to bother other patients. You should also be considerate of your loved one’s personal preferences—he or she may like short visits, for example, or ask to have a day without guests. Patients know best how much social interaction they need while recovering. If you plan to care for your loved one after he or she returns home, use your visits to observe our nurses and ask questions. This can help you feel more secure and confident after your loved one is released from the hospital. Be respectful of the nurses and doctors, as well as your loved one, who may want privacy when being seen by the medical team. Please be mindful that all NYU Langone campuses, buildings, and exterior spaces are tobacco-free, including electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) and all other smoking devices. Smoking or the use of smoking devices is not permitted anywhere at NYU Langone. Patients are permitted to have a single mylar balloon at their bedside. Latex balloons or multiple mylar balloon arrangements are not permitted. Flowers and live plants are permitted in select areas in accordance with our Infection Control policies. They are not permitted in: Intensive care units Oncology, hemodialysis, infusion, and transfusion units and treatment areas Solid organ and bone marrow transplant units and treatment areas Operating rooms, interventional procedure rooms, post-operative units, and post-procedure units Labor and Delivery for immunocompromised patients All gift deliveries (e.g. a single mylar balloon, flower, gift hampers, etc.) by messenger/vendor, must be picked up by the patient’s support person(s) in the lobby of the facility. Most of all, consider the needs of the patient. People who are hospitalized need to rest in a relaxed environment. Whatever you can do to encourage your loved one’s recovery may allow him or her to return home quicker. NYU Langone does not restrict, limit, or deny visitation privileges based on race, ethnicity, language, national origin, socioeconomic status, mental or physical ability, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression. NYU Langone is a weapon-free zone. A weapon is any item capable of causing injury or harm, and includes firearms, knives, and any item that is illegal to own or use under the law. Licensed gun carriers and others may not enter with a gun unless they are law enforcement on active duty. Prepare for Your Visit Information About Your Doctor’s Office Visit What to Bring for Your Hospital Stay Parking in Midtown Manhattan Advance Care Planning Request Medical Records Sharing & Requesting Access to NYU Langone Health MyChart Frequently Asked Questions About Collecting Patient Data Insurance, Billing & Financial Assistance We’re here to help you navigate through any questions you have about your bill from NYU Langone, which includes Family Health Centers at NYU Langone as well as associated outpatient locations. You may receive separate bills for: your hospital stay emergency services the hospital portion of an outpatient visit doctor’s services Please contact us by phone or in person using the methods listed below if you have any questions about insurance or billing. Learn more about your hospital bill , your emergency care bill , or your physician services bill Important Information About Your Hospital Bill It is important for you to know that the hospital only bills you for hospital services. You will get separate bills from doctors. The doctors who care for you at the hospital may work in a private practice or they may be employed by the medical center. Some of these doctors may not be in the same health plan networks as the hospital. Ask the doctor admitting you to the hospital or scheduling your outpatient care if they participate in your insurance plan’s network. If a doctor or hospital is not in your plan’s network, your insurance provider will require you to pay more. In-Network Insurance Coverage: Hospital Benefits NYU Langone participates in many health plan networks. Each health plan creates a network of doctors and hospitals who have agreed to be in that network. It’s called “participating” in the plan. View the list of insurance plans in which we participate Some health plans use smaller networks for certain services, so it is important to check whether we participate in the specific plan that covers you. Our list will tell you if we are in a health plan’s network. In-Network Insurance Coverage: Physician Benefits You can look online to see if your doctors work for NYU Langone and if your doctors are part of the same networks as the hospital. View a list of insurance plans that most of our providers accept, or search for an individual doctor , including anesthesiologists, pathologists, and radiologists, to see if they are employed by NYU Langone and view their list of accepted plans. You should check with the doctor admitting you to the hospital or scheduling your outpatient treatment to find out whether other doctors will be involved in your care. Your doctor can give you their name, practice name, mailing address, and telephone number. Your doctor will also be able to tell you if you are likely to need the services of any doctors employed by NYU Langone, in which case you can obtain information at the above link. To help you understand the full impact of your financial responsibility as a patient, you can coordinate with your insurance company after your provider has identified the procedures likely to be performed, or call us at 877-648-2964 New York State Hospital Facility Fee Notice New York State law requires that patients be notified of possible hospital facility fees. Your upcoming or current service may include a facility fee. Facility fees cover a portion of your care within the hospital, such as the cost of supplies, equipment, diagnostic tests, and/or services completed by technicians, nurses, and other members of your care team. If applicable, a facility fee will appear on a good faith estimate or bill. Out-of-Pocket Costs Out-of-pocket costs for healthcare services may vary significantly across health systems, even for common procedures. At NYU Langone, we are committed to providing you with this information up front so that you can make the best choice for yourself and your family. We provide the following tools to help you estimate your out-of-pocket costs. In compliance with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) regulations, hospitals are required to maintain a comprehensive list of standard charges for the items and services they provide. This includes payer-specific negotiated charges for the range of items and services delivered. You may view the list of NYU Langone’s standard charges in machine-readable files. It is important to remember that standard charges do not reflect or represent the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays for these services. Each patient and episode of care is unique, and the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays may vary depending on the clinical services provided; your specific insurance plan, if you have one; the location where you received services; and other factors. For this reason, the listing may not be a useful tool for accurately understanding what patients and insurers pay for care. The list of standard charges also does not explain how patient safety and quality are factored into the cost of services provided at NYU Langone. At NYU Langone, better care leads to better outcomes. Our commitment to delivering the highest quality of care lowers costs by reducing unnecessary hospital readmissions and complications. Another way for you to get information on potential out-of-pocket costs is by viewing NYU Langone’s list of shoppable services . NYU Langone provides a list of 300 shoppable services. A shoppable service is a service that a patient can schedule in advance. These services are routinely provided in nonurgent situations, allowing you to learn more about the costs for services before receiving them. Examples of common shoppable services include imaging and laboratory services, medical and surgical procedures, and outpatient doctor visits. Similar to the list of standard charges, the shoppable services list serves as a starting point. It is important to remember that the charges for the shoppable services do not reflect or represent the actual out-of-pocket cost a patient pays for these services. To obtain the most reliable out-of-pocket fee for a service at NYU Langone, it is important to speak with your insurance company. They will be able to assist you with information regarding deductibles, copayment, and coinsurance related to the services received and in accordance with your insurance policy. When you need emergency care or are unexpectedly treated by an out-of-network provider at an in-network hospital or ambulatory surgical center, you are protected from being charged more than your insurance plan’s copayments, coinsurance, or deductible. Learn more about your rights and protections against surprise medical bills If you do not have health insurance, please call us at 212-263-1481 to get information about an out-of-pocket cost estimate, or to learn more about our Financial Assistance Policy and your eligibility for subsidized health insurance through programs such as Medicaid. Paying Your Hospital Bill and the will send you a bill for inpatient and outpatient services, listing the charges for the care you received. A “daily care charge” on the inpatient bill covers the basic everyday work of the hospital. It includes 24-hour nursing care, food, housekeeping, and other support services. Following the terms of your insurance plan, insurance covers most of these costs and you pay the remainder. “Optional personal charges” on an inpatient bill are for any extra services received. You may have requested a meal for a family member or a private room. Health insurance does not usually cover these extra items. To make payment as simple and straightforward as possible, we ask every insured patient to pay the deductible, coinsurance, or copayment at the time of any non-emergency service. You may pay by cash, check, or major credit card. This time-of-service payment is based on our estimate of your bill, but it is only an estimate. After discharge, we will send a final bill to your insurance company. They will send you an explanation of benefits (EOB) showing what we charged and what they paid. We will send you a final bill showing the balance you owe and how to pay it. This should match the information on the EOB. If you are in active labor or require emergency services, our first priority is to take care of you. We won’t ask about payment until the doctors have told us your condition is stable. You will be asked to pay for any charges not covered by your insurance after you are discharged. Prenatal Care Assistance Program The Prenatal Care Assistance Program, also known as PCAP, is insurance for pregnant women available through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. PCAP provides coverage for prenatal care, childbirth, and postpartum care up to two months after your baby is born. PCAP coverage is available to any pregnant woman regardless of age or immigration status. An application is required. Our patient service advocate can help determine if you are eligible. To learn more, please call 718-630-7136 Financial Counselors and Financial Assistance for Hospital Bills If you do not have health insurance or your insurance only covers a portion of your hospital bill, you may be eligible for financial assistance. Please see the hospital’s charity care and financial assistance policy billing and collections guidelines frequently asked questions . To apply, please follow the instructions on the financial assistance application. You can also talk to a financial counselor by visiting or calling one of the locations below weekdays between 8:00AM and 5:00PM: Tisch Hospital and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital financial assistance application : 560 First Avenue, Room SK, Manhattan, 866-486-9847 NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn financial assistance application : 150 55th Street, Suite LB 2940, Brooklyn, 718-630-6252 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island financial assistance application : 131 Mineola Boulevard, Suite 105, Mineola, 516-663-8373 If you are receiving services at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and you do not have health insurance or your insurance only covers a portion of your hospital bill, you may be eligible for financial assistance. Please contact the site where your appointment has been scheduled to discuss financial assistance options. Financial Assistance Summaries Arabic Bengali Chinese English Farsi Greek Haitian–Creole Italian Korean Polish Portuguese Russian Spanish Financial Assistance Applications Questions About Payment If you have questions about payment, please call 800-237-6977 Your Emergency Care Bill A bill from the Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center , or the includes charges for the nursing services and supplies provided during your emergency care. Imaging tests, laboratory tests, and pharmacy services are individually listed on this bill. Some portion of these charges may be covered by your insurance company. The bill for the doctors who participated in your care will be sent separately. These services may or may not be covered by your insurance company. Please see below for more information on physician billing. For questions about your emergency care bill, please call Your Physician Services Bill Patients at NYU Langone receive separate bills for services provided by doctors, whether as part of your hospital stay, emergency care, or doctor’s office visit. You can check individual physician participation by searching for a doctor You may also receive a bill for ancillary doctor’s services, such as anesthesia, radiology testing, pathology, or other services. Though you may not meet these doctors face-to-face, they provide vital care. In addition, you may receive a separate bill from a doctor who is affiliated with NYU Langone, but has a private practice. View this sample doctor bill to learn more about the information on your bill. Our Faculty Group Practice Financial Assistance Program provides discounts for low-income individuals who do not have health insurance or who have exhausted their health insurance benefits and meet certain income guidelines for eligible services. View the application in English or in To speak with a customer service representative about your doctor’s office bill, please call the number on your statement or call At NYU Langone, we know that pregnancy can be an exciting but sometimes overwhelming time in your life. There is much to learn and many decisions to make. That’s why we are firmly committed to providing soon-to-be parents with the education and support they need to have healthy, happy pregnancies and the best possible birth experiences. Our certified birth educators teach you how to advocate for yourself throughout your pregnancy, what to expect during childbirth, how to care for a newborn, and ways to ensure your baby’s safety. Our parent classes and support groups and our eClasses are offered through NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation. Delivering Your Baby at NYU Langone To learn more about why you should choose NYU Langone for your delivery, we invite you to view our recorded Ready, Set, Baby! hospital information session . This presentation introduces you to our facilities and explains the NYU Langone birth experience. A Commitment to Breastfeeding and Infant Safety are designated Baby-Friendly Hospitals, a distinction awarded by Baby-Friendly USA in acknowledgment of our commitment to breastfeeding support and education. Studies have shown that breastfeeding can reduce infant hospitalizations and pediatrician visits. Through our breastfeeding classes and support groups , our lactation consultants and lactation counselors provide you with the support you need to get off to a good breastfeeding start, continue breastfeeding after returning to work, and overcome any nursing challenges you face along the way. NYU Langone receives consistent recognition for safety and quality. We are certified by The Joint Commission for excellence in advanced perinatal care, which is the time before, during, and after childbirth. In addition, all of NYU Langone’s inpatient facilities are Magnet® certified, which is the gold standard for nursing excellence. We also earn the highest ratings from the Leapfrog Hospital Safety grade. As part of our commitment to infant safety, we follow and educate new and expecting parents about infant safe sleep guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). For more information about our programs, please email NYUBaby@NYULangone.org Collapse submenu Parent Education Classes & Support Groups Parent Education eClasses Preparing for Childbirth Information Session Resources for Before & After Your Baby Arrives Our Parent Education Program Staff While you or a loved one receive care at NYU Langone, our Guest Services team is available to make your visit as comfortable and convenient as possible. Whether you need assistance navigating the surrounding neighborhoods or our facilities, or need to find an NYU Langone doctor’s office, we can help. The Guest Services team can assist you with the following: information about services available at NYU Langone directions and assistance finding your way throughout NYU Langone car service reservations and help with other transportation needs, such as valet parking and parking garage options, as well as mass transit information and directions hotel and restaurant reservations notary public services beautician services for inpatients sightseeing and special event information including museums, theaters, art, and music in New York City Guest Services can be reached at the following locations: At NYU Langone’s , please call 212-263-2092 or email hospitality@nyumc.org . At Tisch Hospital, you can also visit us at the information desk located in the lobby. 212-598-6336 , please visit our information desk located on the second floor main lobby or contact us at 718-630-7000 If you are traveling to the United States from abroad in search of medical care, the experts from NYU Langone’s International Patient Services can help coordinate your journey. When you choose NYU Langone for your healthcare needs, we develop a personalized medical plan for you. This includes arranging any medical services you need. When necessary, we collect your medical records so they can be reviewed by our world-class doctors. The International Patient Services team works quickly to provide you with a reliable estimate for the cost of your care . We then schedule your doctor appointments, lab testing, and procedures, so your schedule is set prior to your arrival. Our goal is to make the process as easy as possible so you can focus on your treatment and recovery. Learn more about our support services and how to Choosing NYU Langone NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers and one of the top-ranked hospitals in the country on ’s “Best Hospitals.” Learn more about our nationally ranked programs, quality and safety, and groundbreaking research If you require care in the hospital, your treatment may take place at one of our several inpatient locations: , or . Children’s healthcare services are provided through Many patients come to us from around the world for our services in cardiology and heart surgery diabetes and endocrinology orthopedics , neurology and neurosurgery epilepsy rehabilitation services cosmetic and reconstructive surgery services We are also home to a large network of outpatient locations. We are unique in providing same-day executive check-ups and healthcare focused on the individual needs of men and women at Joan H. Tisch Center for Women’s Health Preston Robert Tisch Center for Men’s Health NYU Langone at Trinity International Patient Services Team Our International Patient Services program is led by the following experts in medical care and care coordination: Dr. William Macaulay , medical director (Languages: English, Spanish) Yasmin Hani, senior director of the international, language, and volunteer services departments (Languages: English, Arabic) Nadine Hamido, Manager (Languages: English, Arabic) News for Our International Patients As you research which medical center to choose as your medical home away from home, we invite you to learn more about our latest news and updates When you contact International Patient Services, please include your name, country of origin, preferred contact method, and preferred language. We will get back to you within 24 hours. Reach out to us by phone at 1-212-263-3588 , by email at InternationalServices@NYULangone.org , or by fax at 1-646-501-5296 Preparing for Your Visit Financial Information At NYU Langone Health, we provide a welcoming environment for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ+). Our providers and staff strive to offer equitable care to all, while also acknowledging and respecting the specific needs of the LGBTQ+ community and their loved ones. NYU Langone has been recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation Healthcare Equality Index (HEI) Report , a certification that acknowledges medical facilities where staff provide equal healthcare access to LGBTQ+ Americans. The HEI certification, which NYU Langone has received 10 years in a row and recognizes all of our locations, is obtained through an annual survey that evaluates a healthcare provider’s nondiscrimination policies and staff training, patient services and support, employee benefits and policies, and patient and community engagement. On these criteria, NYU Langone earned a perfect score of 100. We follow the best practices in LGBTQ+ healthcare and follow standards of care provided by GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBTQ Equality and WPATH: World Professional Association for Transgender Health. Our Commitment to the LGBTQ+ Community We provide healthcare, treatment, and services to all regardless of a person’s sexual orientation, assigned sex at birth, or gender identity or expression. This policy is part of the NYU Langone Patients’ Bill of Rights , which also prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, disability, source of payment, or age. If you are a patient in the hospital, our guest policy ensures that your partner and family may visit you. We also abide by New York City’s LGBTQ Health Care Bill of Rights , which affirms your right to privacy and confidentiality. We support your right to choose who can make medical decisions for you in case you are unable to do so for yourself, and can assist with advance directives and establishing a healthcare proxy At NYU Langone, we abide by the NYC Commission on Human Rights and respect your right to be addressed by your chosen name and pronouns. Your Medical and Surgical Care We provide primary and specialized care for the LGBTQ+ community, including gender-affirming surgical care . Please tell your healthcare provider the name and pronoun you use. You can also add this information to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account We encourage you to build a relationship with your healthcare professional and to schedule annual physicals. Your provider can advise you about what preventive screenings and medical tests are recommended for you. Primary care services are available at many of our In addition to well visits, services provided by our doctors include the following: preventive healthcare, including immunizations and screening for breast cancer cervical cancer rectal cancer mental health screenings and treatment treatment for hepatitis and liver disease HIV testing and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) treatment to protect against HIV As a leader in gender-affirming surgery, our plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists perform more than 550 surgeries per year. Our transgender health team also provides fertility preservation, hormone therapy, and rehabilitation care. Gender and Sexuality Service Transgender Youth Health Program , both part of , our pediatric experts offer sensitive care and support for transgender, gender-nonconforming, and gender-diverse children and their families. The NYU Langone Fertility Center NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York provide a full range of care, including family planning services, reproductive endocrinology, donor eggs, donor sperm, and gestational carriers to help members of the LGBTQ+ community start a family. LGBTQ+ Advisory Council Our LGBTQ+ Advisory Council includes advocates from across the NYU Langone community, including physicians, nurses, administrators, educators, and staff. Council members are dedicated to creating an environment of inclusion, acceptance, equality, and healing for patients, employees, and students who identify as LGBTQ+ as well as their friends and families. Council members are professionals who patients and staff can turn to for support. They advocate for inclusive policies, create opportunities to build community, and lead educational efforts around LGBTQ+ health. For more information on our LGBTQ+ Advisory Council, please contact #outtoheal@nyulangone.org At NYU Langone, Kevin Moore, our assistant director for LGBTQ+ clinical services, serves as patient liaison and is dedicated to meeting the specific needs of this community. For more information, please email lgbtqpatientliaison@nyulangone.org NYU Langone provides interpretation and translation services for patients and their family members who prefer to communicate in a language other than English. Resources are also provided to people with disabilities to help you communicate with your care team. Language Services We offer interpretation and translation assistance, both orally and in writing. Certified Medical Interpreters For families and patients who prefer to communicate in a language other than English, we provide professional medical interpreters free of charge. Interpreters can help you and your family during all phases of your care, whether you are visiting us for testing or treatment or have been admitted to the hospital. We provide face-to-face interpreters as well as remote video and telephone interpreting services. Translation of Medical Documents Vital documents, including advance directives and informed consent forms, are available in the most frequently spoken languages, which include Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and Arabic. These and other written materials, including educational information, are available and can be translated to your preferred language upon request to your healthcare team. In addition, if you have important documents such as medical records that are written in another language, we can facilitate having them translated into English for you. Please speak with a member of your healthcare team for more information about translation services. Disability Services We offer support to patients who have vision or hearing loss Services for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing If you communicate using sign language or have a family member who does, we can provide a certified interpreter free of charge. If you are admitted after-hours or on the weekend, we offer remote interpreting that connects you via video to an interpreter until a face-to-face interpreter can be assigned. Other aids and services are available as well, including assistive listening devices such as amplifiers, UbiDuo face-to-face communicator, and white boards. Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired For people who are blind or visually impaired, vital documents are available in Braille and in large print. Please speak with a member of your healthcare team for more information about document availability. For more information or to access language and disability services at NYU Langone’s , and NYU Langone outpatient locations, please call 212-263-3762 language.services@nyulangone.org To access these services at 212-598-6164 lohlanguageservices@nyulangone.org For language and disability services at 718-630-6537 lblanguage.services@nyulangone.org 516-663-1251 patricia.muniz@nyulangone.org Our patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart , allows you to easily access information about your medical history and manage your care online and through the . With proper consent, patients age 12 and older can grant access to their MyChart account to a trusted family member or caregiver. For children age 11 and younger, parents and guardians may request proxy access to their child’s health record. Follow these instructions to request proxy access or share access to a family member’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account. For more information about MyChart and shared access, please see our Requesting Proxy MyChart Access for Children Age 11 and Younger To request proxy access to your child’s NYU Langone Health MyChart health record, you must first have your own account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and don’t yet have an account, you can create your account online . If you are not a patient at NYU Langone, please call our MyChart Help Desk at 866-262-6458 so that we may create an account for you. After logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, follow these steps to request access to your child’s health record: From the Menu, scroll to Sharing and select “Share My Record.” Select “Friends and Family Access.” Under Records I Can See, select “Request Access to My Child’s Account (Under Age 12).” Enter your child’s information and review the agreement language. Check the box to accept the agreement, and then tap “Submit Request.” Please note that processing time for reviewing and approving proxy access may vary. You will receive a notification to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account when access to your child’s health record has been reviewed. Sharing MyChart Access for People Age 12 and Older People age 12 and older can create their own NYU Langone Health MyChart account and can choose to share access to their account with a parent, guardian, or other trusted caregiver or friend. Shared access to the accounts of people age 12 to 17 expires on their 18th birthday, in accordance with New York State law. The person can choose to share access again at that time. To share access, you must first create your NYU Langone Health MyChart account . The person with whom you are sharing access must also have an NYU Langone MyChart account in order to accept your invitation. If they are a patient at NYU Langone, they can create their account online. If they are not a patient at NYU Langone, they must call our MyChart Help Desk at so that we may create an account for them. After logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, follow these steps to share access: Under Who Can See My Record, select “Share MyChart Access with Family/Friend.” Enter the information for the person with whom you would like to share access. Review the agreement language, and check the box to agree to the terms and conditions. Select “Send Invite.” The person receives an invitation sent to the email account you provided for them, and must then complete the steps listed below. Accepting an Invitation for Shared Access To accept an invitation for shared access to someone’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you must complete the following steps: Log into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account using the link in the email you received. Enter the patient’s date of birth and choose “Accept Invitation,” or choose “Decline Invitation” if you do not wish to accept. For technical assistance with NYU Langone Health MyChart, please call our MyChart Help Desk at Better health starts with a better health system. At NYU Langone Health, we believe that better health starts with a better health system. A better health system goes beyond just treating a diagnosis or disease—it understands and addresses the unique needs of each patient. Achieving this requires an integrated approach, where we draw on the full expertise of our clinical care, medical education, and research teams to deliver the best patient outcomes. To be a truly exceptional health system, there can be no small jobs, no shortcuts, and no overlooked details. Every action matters. Our drive to be a better health system is illustrated by how we select and support our care teams, how we train future leaders in medicine, and how we relentlessly pursue discoveries that transform lives. It’s reflected in every aspect of our system—from our warm and welcoming facilities to the compassion and professionalism of every staff member to our exceptional hospital food. This personalized human experience, coupled with a single electronic health record and mobile app, gives patients and providers access to full medical histories, creating one standard of high-quality care across our more than 320 locations. We deliver excellence where it matters most. NYU Langone has achieved the lowest mortality rates, hospital-acquired infection rates, and length of stay in the nation, and the lowest readmission rates in New York. We’ve been named number one for quality care in the United States for the last three years in a row. Our innovative medical education has put us in a