Given that there is no single, specific treatment target, effective management of patients with CP requires close coordination of specialties—an approach to care that the Center for Children was built to provide. The center is one of only a select few offering truly comprehensive, multidisciplinary care for CP, placing special emphasis on ensuring that social determinants don’t hurt access to high-quality care. “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity. We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” Targeting Treatment Toward Functional Outcomes From referral—often directly from NYU Langone’s —through transition to early adulthood, the program aligns orthopedic surgeons like Dr. Karamitopoulos with neurologists, pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, therapists from , and other specialists to meet the evolving needs of each patient. Though the nature of CP limits the possibility of measuring outcomes with specific indicators, the comprehensive care approach results in higher patient satisfaction because it enables children to participate more fully in their daily lives. Goals communicated by patients and families encompass everything from a child seeking greater agility to kick a soccer ball, to caregivers needing an easier time working with children’s tight muscles to get them dressed. “Unfortunately, we can’t take away the underlying condition,” explains Dr. Karamitopoulos. “Instead, we ask how we can make life easier for each impacted child and family, to help that child meet their potential.” Data-Driven Surgical Expertise Surgical decision-making is at the center of the care plan. Though hip dislocation is common in patients with CP, hip reconstruction was not commonly recommended until recently. Dr. Karamitopoulos and her team apply a treatment algorithm to recommend reconstruction only when a patient’s hip is more than 50 percent displaced from the socket. “The thinking used to be that it’s better to leave the hips dislocated until the patient has pain,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We have the resources here to safely intervene sooner and hopefully mitigate the tightness and pain driven by the dislocation for certain patients.” Highly specialized care is also available for patients with severe spasticity, who may benefit from neurosurgery or treatment with the muscle relaxant baclofen, administered through the spine at a specialized clinic within the center. Overcoming Social Barriers with Coordinated Care In addition to supporting patients’ functional outcomes, the coordinated care model makes accessing care as convenient as possible for both patients and caregivers. With appointments streamlined, patients can see most specialists and therapists at the center within a single day, minimizing the burden that accessing care can place on work status and family needs. The center also assigns each family a social worker, who not only supports their social and emotional needs but also helps them manage the realities of life with CP—from housing, transportation, and social activities to navigating accessibility within the New York City Public Schools. Part of Dr. Karamitopoulos’s research has focused on social determinants impacting access to high-quality CP care, particularly among non-English-speaking populations, finding that pairing families with supports can minimize care disparities. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Providing every patient who has CP with equal access to the best possible care, as early as possible, is a mission Dr. Karamitopoulos and her center colleagues are dedicated to achieving. To address known disparities in time to diagnosis due to social determinants, she is working with physical therapists at Rusk Rehabilitation to implement universal CP screening for all premature infants in the NICU. Using a screening tool with infants as young as 6 weeks of age, Dr. Karamitopoulos says the team can predict with 85 to 90 percent sensitivity which babies will ultimately develop CP. “The sooner we can diagnose patients, the more we can use therapeutic interventions to take advantage of early brain neuroplasticity,” says Dr. Karamitopoulos. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Mara Karamitopoulos, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery, chief of the Division of Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, medical director of the Center for Children, and associate director of the Orthopedic Surgery Residency. Her research interests include pediatric orthopedic surgery, access to care, and social determinants of health. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED Despite nearly 1.4 million emergency department (ED) visits annually among patients with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, many of their clinical and social needs remain unmet, resulting in return visits to the ED. In a new five-year, $54.9 million study funded by a U19 award from the NIH, faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health will examine how to improve emergency and post-discharge care for those living with dementia and their care partners. NYU Langone was chosen as one of the lead sites for the study—dubbed ED-LEAD, or Emergency Departments Leading the Transformation of Alzheimer’s and Dementia Care—and will be responsible for coordinating and implementing the research activities of 82 participating sites nationwide. “Even with advances in geriatric emergency care, the ED is a suboptimal setting for this population, who often require care for multiple chronic conditions,” says Dr. Chodosh will co-lead the project with three other principal investigators, , of NYU Langone, and national colleagues Corita R. Grudzen, MD, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Manish N. Shah, MD, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Addressing Unmet Needs According to Dr. Chodosh, the symptoms of dementia place older adults at increased risk of requiring hospital and acute care services, often resulting in costly and under-reimbursed care. To reduce the overreliance on emergency care, researchers seek to test three different strategies to provide best care for persons living with dementia and their family care partners. Dr. Chodosh and his colleagues believe that many of these acute care visits could be avoided, maintaining that care could be provided in better-resourced settings. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” “We lack data on long-term clinical outcomes of patients with dementia who seek care in the ED,” he says. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” Examining Three Distinct Interventions For the study, interdisciplinary teams from all participating sites will evaluate different combinations of three interventions focused on care partners: Emergency Care Redesign (ECR), Nurse-Led Telephonic Care (NLTC), and Community Paramedic-Led Transitions Intervention (CPTI). With respect to outcomes, the effectiveness of these interventions on ED revisits, hospitalizations, and healthy days at home will be evaluated at specific time intervals—14 days, 30 days, and 6 months—post-discharge. Across the clinical sites, Dr. Chodosh will be implementing the ECR intervention, designed to optimize the workflow of emergency providers with digital alerts and structured collaborations with external partners. This intervention is specifically designed for those with dementia who live on their own in the community. “Our aim with this intervention is to redesign workflows from when patients first present to their discharge back into the community,” he explains. The NTLC intervention, directed by Dr. Brody, will provide psychosocial support and connect patients and their care partners to community support and services. The CPTI, led by Dr. Shah, will provide a coaching intervention delivered by community paramedics to empower patients and care partners to manage their healthcare with confidence. All three programs hope to reduce future ED visits and hospitalizations while improving transitional care, quality of care, and care satisfaction, Dr. Chodosh says. Laying the Groundwork for Change Given the size and scope of the project, the investigators believe that it provides a prime opportunity to establish best practices and optimize workflows for geriatric emergency and post-emergency care at a national level. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population.” Additionally, these interventions could be used to reduce costs for health systems. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Health systems may then better allocate scarce resources to where they can be best used.” Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH , a respected surgeon and expert in treating hepatobiliary and gastrointestinal cancers, was recently named chief of the Division of Surgical Oncology . Specializing in complex robotic procedures, he will serve as director of the hospital’s Robotic Surgical Oncology Program. Alongside his clinical expertise, Dr. Deutsch brings a passion for education and research to his leadership role in the division, which is part of . He was the founding program director of a surgical oncology fellowship program at his previous institution, having also served as program director for a general surgery residency, and has spearheaded innovative studies using smartwatches for surgical self-assessment. In this discussion, Dr. Deutsch reflects on his career transition and outlines his leadership goals, emphasizing that his primary driving force is to reduce the burden of surgery on patients. Drawn to the Benefits of Robotics Dr. Deutsch, can you tell us more about your surgical expertise and how you came to specialize in minimally invasive procedures? Dr. Deutsch: I’m board-certified in complex general surgical oncology, but I’ve developed a particular interest and expertise in robotic and minimally invasive approaches, especially for complex hepatobiliary and pancreatic cancers, and gastrointestinal malignancies. Early in my career, I became focused on finding ways to reduce the toll that cancer surgery can take on patients. Rather than just aiming to remove the tumor, I started exploring—alongside others in the field—how we could do these procedures in a less invasive way, using robotic technology. I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision. The difference in patient outcomes and recovery times between open and minimally invasive approaches is truly remarkable. “I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision.” Ultimately, I advanced to performing the most intricate surgeries, becoming a specialist in complex robotic surgeries, like the Whipple procedure for pancreatic cancer. Returning Home What drew you to this new role at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? I actually have a long history with this hospital. Growing up in East Meadow on Long Island, I volunteered here during my teenage years, back when it was Winthrop Hospital, before merging with NYU Langone. I’ve always held the hospital in high regard; it’s a special place with a long-standing history, an esteemed reputation within the local community, and a dedicated patient base spanning generations. Throughout my career, I kept an eye on the great things happening at NYU Langone, so when the opportunity became available to lead the Division of Surgical Oncology here, it seemed like the perfect fit—I jumped at it. With NYU Langone’s academic backing, research resources, and Comprehensive Cancer Center designation from the NCI—combined with its commitment to high-quality care and innovation—I saw an incredible opportunity to further elevate the level of cancer care on Long Island. It’s a chance to build on the strong foundation laid by my outstanding predecessors, Dr. Megan D. Winner Dr. John D. Allendorf , and pursue my passion for innovative, minimally invasive surgical approaches and reducing the burden of treatment for cancer patients. “One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program. It has the potential to further reduce the burden of surgery.” One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program . The program allows carefully selected patients to recover in the comfort of their own homes, with close monitoring and support from the hospital. To my knowledge, no other hospital in New York offers this. I believe select patients who have undergone minimally invasive cancer surgery would greatly benefit from this approach. It has the potential to significantly enhance the patient experience and further reduce the burden of surgery. Priorities as Chief What are your priorities as the new division chief? A big focus for me will be expansion of education and research. I’m passionate about training the next generation of surgical oncologists, and I’m eager to build on my experience directing surgical training programs at my previous institution—those experiences helped shape my view of what modern surgical education looks like. I see a lot of opportunities to attract top talent to the field of surgical oncology and support them through their training. On the research front, I plan to be very active by involving Long Islanders in the ongoing trials at NYU Langone and by opening new national trials at our site. I have had great success with clinical trials in the past. Although surgical oncologists usually find their place in the operating room, I believe there is significant value in having a surgical oncologist actively involved in the advancement of science. Filling the Self-Assessment Gap You’re also leading pioneering research using Apple Watches to objectively measure surgical performance. Can you tell us more about this? I realized early in my career that mastering safe robotic surgery requires extensive experience, mentorship, and objective feedback. At that time, there were no effective tools for assessing surgical performance. Typically, the success of a surgery was judged by the patient’s outcome. While this is important, I felt it was necessary to have a more nuanced evaluation method. To address this gap, I secured funding to conduct a novel study using Apple Watches to measure wrist movements during robotic surgery. By analyzing this data, we aimed to identify potential improvements and provide actionable feedback to surgeons. This pilot study has yielded promising preliminary data, which will be presented at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress in October. I am very excited about these findings and hope to continue similar research here. Surgeons need to have robust self-assessment tools, much like other professions, so we can continue to improve the surgical quality we provide. Although leaders at a national level, including the American College of Surgeons, are exploring this area, there is still no standardized, efficient, and affordable method to provide surgeons with concrete feedback on their performance. Bonding with Patients Is there anything else you’d like to share about your approach to patient care and the values you bring to your practice? One of the things I’m most proud of is the deep connections I’m able to form with my patients. Patients with cancer are often experiencing one of the most vulnerable points in their lives. They’re not only looking for someone who has the skill set to help them get better, but they’re also looking for someone they can trust and form a bond with. “I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do.” I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do. I believe that patients who feel that level of support will fare better in their tough battle with cancer. That human connection is something I’ll continue to prioritize as I take on this new leadership role. Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and chief of the surgical oncology division at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive cancer surgery. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Jonathan M. Gerber, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Jonathan M. Gerber, MD , has recently joined NYU Langone Health’s as chief clinical officer, where he will oversee the cancer service line across the entire network of locations throughout Brooklyn, Long Island, Manhattan, and Queens. As a seasoned clinician, Dr. Gerber has nearly two decades of experience in treating leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as extensive experience in blood and marrow transplant and cell therapies. He is also an accomplished translational researcher, focusing on the detection and targeting of leukemia stem cells. Dr. Gerber brings a wealth of experience in cancer leadership to the role, having previously served as director of the UMass Cancer Center and in leadership roles at the Atrium Health Levine Cancer Institute Here, Dr. Gerber shares his journey into leadership—including a sudden pivot to the COVID-19 response—and his vision for enhancing cutting-edge, personalized cancer care at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Lessons in Leadership What motivated you to pursue a leadership position in healthcare? Dr. Gerber: I happened into leadership roles a bit by circumstance. When I was still relatively junior in my career, an opportunity came up to help build the Levine Cancer Institute from the ground up in Charlotte, North Carolina. They had a bold vision of building a cancer center without walls and bringing cancer care closer to home. It was a rare opportunity that, for some, might have been intimidating due to the uncertainty, but for me it was an exciting challenge. I realized as a young physician that I didn’t want to be in the position of complaining about things without trying to fix them. We did everything from establishing the positions and hiring faculty and staff to drafting protocols and pathways and even designing future construction and renovations. We launched a leukemia program and a blood and marrow transplant program covering inpatient and outpatient services—truly building from scratch. It was a unique and invaluable learning experience that I really enjoyed. How did your experience in Charlotte shape your approach to leadership? I was trained as a physician–scientist, spending most of my time in the lab while on faculty at Johns Hopkins. So when I took the role at Levine Cancer Institute, I tried to apply the same rigor and due diligence to administrative problems as I would to a scientific experiment or patient care. Rather than dismissing issues, I made an effort to understand the context and find the best solutions by thinking creatively, being resourceful, engaging key stakeholders, and building consensus. “I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress.” Many people mistake leadership for simply having the authority to hire and fire or issue orders, but it’s really about solving problems and taking care of people. Hiring is fun, and it’s one of the most important things we do. It’s critical that we get that right and that we retain good people. Firing is an absolute last resort. Good leaders are often the hardest-working people in the organization. They’re receptive, responsive, and available to their team. They learn about the problems, and if a solution doesn’t work, they reassess and revise the plan. At the end of the day, it’s all about our patients and taking care of each other. I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress. A Pivot During the Pandemic During the COVID-19 pandemic, you helped develop convalescent plasma therapies—an area related to but outside your usual expertise. Can you tell us more about this experience? It was really a perfect storm of circumstances that led me to get involved in the COVID-19 response. When the pandemic hit, I had just recently taken on oversight of the Transfusion Medicine Division at UMass, merging it into the Hematology and Oncology Division; and I was therefore asked to mobilize an effort around convalescent plasma treatments. This put me in a somewhat difficult position, because the Transfusion Medicine Division was small, with only two faculty, who were excellent but had little clinical research experience. And the extent of my experience with transfusion medicine was a one-month rotation as a fellow. I drew on my background in leukemia and infectious complications, as well as my experience in building programs and with clinical trials, to quickly pull together the necessary resources and research expertise. I had a phenomenal team supporting me, including an experienced blood bank team. And through my role in the cancer center, I was also able to rely on the cancer clinical trials team. This was an absolutely outstanding group of research nurses, coordinators, and regulatory personnel who worked tirelessly alongside me, often around the clock and 7 days a week, including holidays. I did not take a single day off for 14 months, which I could never have survived without their help. It was an incredibly stressful time, but I was able to translate my skills into a different arena and employ a collaborative approach to tackle a new challenge. It was certainly a detour that I never anticipated in my career. Priorities as a Chief Clinical Officer As the new chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center, what are your top priorities? Clinical excellence is my North Star. The vision for the center is to be the absolute best in every area of cancer care. That means recruiting and retaining top talent; delivering cutting-edge, personalized, and compassionate care; implementing quality safeguards; performing innovative research to advance the standard of care; and driving continuous improvement. We also need to ensure consistency across our growing network of locations. We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible. “We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible.” Toward that goal, we’re working to standardize treatment pathways while still allowing for personalized approaches. We don’t want to make it so proscriptive that providers feel restricted in their practice, but we do want to provide some support and remove unnecessary variation. Leveraging our multiple locations throughout the region will help to eliminate disparities in care and barriers to access, including the availability of clinical trials. You also aim to position the cancer center as a leader in translational research. Can you elaborate on your plans? Fostering tight collaboration between our scientists and clinicians to advance translational research will be a key priority for me in this role. I want to create an environment where we are seamlessly moving discoveries from the bench to the bedside, and then using insights gleaned from patient care to inform new research directions. This bidirectional flow of knowledge is critical for driving innovation in cancer treatment, and it’s one of the things we need to do better at in medicine as a whole. Precision medicine is also a priority. We need to collect biospecimens and data across our network, feed that into our research programs to identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and develop new therapies. Increasingly, we will need to incorporate artificial intelligence into these efforts. While this is easier said than done, it will be crucial for improving cancer outcomes going forward. Another part of this involves establishing collaborations across departments and divisions within NYU Langone and with outside partners to explore how therapies introduced in cancer can be applied to other diseases. For example, the same CAR T cell therapies used to treat B cell lymphomas and other cancers have shown early promise in treating debilitating autoimmune diseases such as lupus. These therapies require the infrastructure and expertise that we have in blood and marrow transplantation to deliver them safely and effectively. So we’ve partnered with other specialties to bring these treatments to patients with autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is at the forefront of this pioneering approach, and I plan to remain closely involved with these and similar efforts to expand the applications of CAR T cells and related treatments to more diseases. Jonathan M. Gerber, MD, is the chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research and clinical interests include leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as blood and marrow transplant. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Clinical registries offer crucial benefits to the surgical sciences. Because there are fewer randomized controlled trials in surgery, registries are critical to supporting research, device monitoring, and trial development. Currently, they are costly to create and challenging to maintain, requiring the skilled labor of physicians or nurses to enter data manually into registries. In a study published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used neurosurgeons’ operative notes to inform an accurate and interpretable natural language processing (NLP) algorithm that could generate an automated registry of spine surgery. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text, and in doing so this method has the potential to reduce the time and cost that make scaling up manual registries challenging. This creates the potential to facilitate more clinical research opportunities and better monitor care. “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists. Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists,” says , senior author on the study. “Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” Human in the Loop This model is considered a human-in-the-loop approach, where a computational or artificial intelligence (AI) model greatly benefits from human interaction. According to Dr. Oermann, surgeons actively participating in training the model were asked questions like “How do you talk about surgery?” and “How do you write about surgery?” They then used a pattern-matching method within NLP to design classifiers that could order or categorize this information on a surgeon-by-surgeon basis. Researchers began with the NYU Langone “data lake,” which combines unstructured data from the electronic health record (EHR), billing department, imaging systems, and other sources of information. They ran a structured language query to collect 31,502 notes—including spine, cranial, and peripheral cases—for analysis. This data was processed using regular expressions (regex) classifiers, 650 lines of code, written in collaboration with operating surgeons and trainees. In this study, the relative simplicity of the regex method provided transparency in interpreting results as compared with more sophisticated AI models. AI models are often described as black boxes. It can be difficult to understand how they arrive at their decisions, making them challenging to deploy in healthcare settings. The generated autoregistry of operative notes that were run through the regex classifiers included 14 labeled spine procedures. NLP classifiers had an average accuracy of 98.86 percent at identifying both spinal procedures and relevant vertebral levels. They also correctly identified the entire list of defined surgical procedures in 89 percent of patients. Researchers were able to identify patients who required additional operations within 30 days, monitoring outcomes and quality metrics. Because of the specificity used in surgeons’ language, this study cannot be generalized to other hospitals. However, the study demonstrates the method could be replicated in other settings to generate additional autoregistries. This would require neurosurgery domain expertise and practical NLP programming skills. With relatively simple computing requirements, and cost-effective use of surgeons’ time, this method improves upon existing manual methods. Future directions for research include collecting additional spine outcomes data and comparing the regex classifiers against other machine learning models. Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Eric K. Oermann, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. He specializes in tumors of the brain and spine and is an expert in applying artificial intelligence to advance clinical care. Collaborative clinical care and careful evaluation help resolve the underdiagnosed and often debilitating neuropathic syndrome. Collaborative Evaluation Helps Diagnose and Relieve Pudendal Neuralgia A woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone Health for an evaluation of stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain that had persisted since her second vaginal delivery four years prior. Although that delivery was uncomplicated, it required an episiotomy and the woman began experiencing constant irritation and burning in her vaginal opening and sometimes in her rectum. “Pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it.” Through a careful and thorough evaluation, urologist , and pain specialist Meera K. Kirpekar, MD , developed high suspicion of a neuropathic condition called pudendal neuralgia. “I think pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it,” Dr. Rosenblum says. The pudendal nerve originates at the base of the spine and descends through the gluteal muscles until it reaches the pelvic floor, where it splits into three major branches. Damage to the nerve can cause overactive bladder syndrome and mimic a host of other conditions. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia.” One telling clue was a burning sensation in the patient’s vaginal introitus that intensified when she sat for long periods or sat on a hard surface. Pain that worsens with sitting but lessens with standing is consistent with compression of the pudendal nerve along its pathway across the ischial tuberosity. Dr. Kirpekar performed a pudendal nerve block, which can be both therapeutic and diagnostic. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia,” she says. After the 10-minute, X-ray-guided injection, the patient achieved full pain relief. “She was thrilled,” Dr. Kirpekar says. By four months, some slight pain had returned, but it was not interfering with the woman’s daily activities, and the physicians are continuing to monitor her progress. Pain Management, Anesthesiology Meera K. Kirpekar, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of anesthesiology, perioperative care, and pain medicine. She specializes in caring for patients with pelvic, neck, low-back, peripheral joint, or nerve pain. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine, and Reconstructive Surgery Nirit Rosenblum, MD, is a clinical professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and co-director of the Female Pelvic Medicine Fellowship Program. She specializes in clinical care for women with pelvic floor disorders and urinary incontinence. New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez and Ghanaian healthcare providers in the maternal–fetal medicine unit. Source: NYU Langone Health Rates of maternal and infant mortality in Ghana and other parts of West Africa rank among the highest in the world. Over the past two decades, Ghana has made significant progress in reducing these rates, yet the numbers remain high. Maternal deaths stand at approximately 319 per 100,000 live births , around twice the global average . Neonatal mortality in Ghana is around 23 per 1,000 live births , around seven times higher than in the United States and Europe. Policymakers and healthcare providers strive to continue lowering these rates, especially in northern Ghana, where improvements in maternal and infant health outcomes have lagged compared to other parts of the country. In support of these efforts, specialists from NYU Langone Health, working through the global health initiative AMPATH , have established a maternal-fetal medicine (MFM) unit at the sole tertiary referral hospital in northern Ghana. The unit is dedicated to monitoring high-risk pregnancies, an effort known to improve perinatal outcomes. “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies.” Sasha Hernandez, MD “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies,” says , a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at NYU Langone. “We also get referrals from nearby or district hospitals for more complicated cases.” Dr. Hernandez is currently serving as the lead obstetrician–gynecologist for AMPATH’s initiative in Ghana, and has made Tamale, Ghana, her full-time home since 2022. Replicating a Proven Model AMPATH, short for Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare, is a consortium that builds partnerships between universities and academic medical centers around the world. Its mission is to strengthen health systems and tackle health disparities in low- and middle-income countries. About 30 years ago, the first AMPATH partnership launched in western Kenya , with the success of the model driving the consortium’s expansion into Mexico Nepal , along with the ongoing partnership in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez with a patient and her newborn who received care at the MFM unit. The patient had experienced multiple neonatal losses in the past and was being monitored for growth restriction. Following intensive fetal monitoring and a closely supervised preterm delivery, she left the MFM unit with a healthy baby “At the core of the AMPATH model is the belief that long-term, sustainable global health partnerships are the key to improving health across the globe,” says Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH Section for Global Health , and an associate professor in the Dr. Vedanthan has been involved with AMPATH Kenya for nearly two decades. “AMPATH Kenya was one of the first programs in Africa to start a comprehensive HIV clinical care program,” he says. Care infrastructure was then extended to address cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, child and adolescent health, and more. Thousands of local medical students and trainees received specialized training in the process. “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers,” says Dr. Vedanthan. “I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers. I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” When AMPATH leadership set out to replicate the model in other countries, Dr. Vedanthan was asked to lead the organization and launch of AMPATH Ghana. “I jumped at the opportunity,” he says. Managing High-Risk Pregnancies AMPATH Ghana partnership connects NYU Langone with Ghana’s University for Development Studies and Tamale Teaching Hospital. Strengthening reproductive healthcare and launching the MFM unit were among the initial priorities. Activities began in fall 2022, involving comprehensive training for local healthcare providers in ultrasound techniques and specialized care, alongside the development of tailored protocols for managing high-risk pregnancies. By fall 2023, these efforts led to the official inauguration of the MFM unit. This phased approach not only streamlined the implementation process but also facilitated the development of trust and effective problem-solving, says Dr. Hernandez, fostering widespread support for the MFM unit from both healthcare professionals and patients in northern Ghana. Another boon of the MFM unit: it serves as a training ground for local residents seeking to acquire proficiency in obstetric and gynecological ultrasound. Since its inception, the unit has trained 20 physicians from the region, six of whom attained advanced ultrasound training, as well as five midwives. A medical officer and an OB/GYN resident perform an ultrasound scan in the MFM unit. Source: NYU Langone Health. With the MFM unit now operational, the focus has expanded to assessing how ultrasound screenings are impacting outcomes for both mothers and babies related to high-risk pregnancies, particularly those with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. “The number one cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in Ghana is hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, which includes pre-eclampsia and eclampsia,” says Dr. Hernandez. “Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy also increase the risk of stillbirth, fetal growth restriction, and neonatal death.” Dr. Hernandez is drawing insights from the outcomes tracking to validate the effectiveness of the MFM unit and pinpoint areas for improvement. Recently, the MFM unit secured a grant from the Consortium of Universities for Global Health to evaluate clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction associated with the new innovative care model over a two-year period. Foundation of Trust With a focus on building relationships grounded in mutual trust, respect, and benefit, NYU Langone has stationed additional faculty members, alongside Dr. Hernandez, at Tamale Teaching Hospital. These experts are leading projects in medicine, pediatrics, mental health, and population health. “These NYU Langone specialists are identifying priorities based on their day-to-day experiences and their discussions with their Ghanaian colleagues, and then translating these priorities into programs and initiatives,” says Dr. Vedanthan. The established foundation of trust and relationship-building now facilitates short-term visits by other NYU Langone faculty and trainees as well. “It’s a