Importantly, pain management often requires trying several treatment approaches to find what works. For instance, for the past year, I have followed a patient who presented with erythromelalgia, which causes pain and burning in the lower extremities. The patient was experiencing frequent emergency room visits and hospital admissions for pain crises. After attempting a combination of medications and periodic nerve block treatments without significant improvement, we implanted a neuromodulation device, a peripheral nerve stimulator, which has meaningfully reduced his pain. His pain still fluctuates, but we were able to keep him out of the emergency room for the past 10 months. Finally, what inspired you to specialize in both pain management and pediatric rehabilitation medicine? My interest stemmed from observing the profound impact pain has on a patient’s function and quality of life during my pediatric rehabilitation medicine training. We see many patients who suffer from chronic pain, which profoundly impacts their overall wellbeing, both physically and emotionally. I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Pain Management, Pediatric Rehabilitation Jinpu Li, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, he specializes in multidisciplinary approaches to managing chronic pain in children and adolescents. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption New study links psilocybin to a major decline in heavy drinking and complete cessation in nearly half of participants. IMAGE SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Excessive alcohol use kills roughly 95,000 Americans every year. In a new study in JAMA Psychiatry , NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators found that two doses of psilocybin derived from psychedelic mushrooms, in combination with multiple psychotherapy sessions, reduced heavy drinking by 83 percent on average among participants with alcohol dependence. By contrast, the double-blind placebo-controlled trial of 93 men and women—the first of its kind—found that participants given two doses of an antihistamine placebo reduced their heavy drinking by 51 percent. Eight months after the first dose, 48 percent of those given psilocybin stopped drinking altogether—double the rate for the placebo group. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage,” says , director of NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine and senior author of the study. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage.” All participants received up to 12 psychotherapy sessions during the study and reported the percentage of heavy drinking days during weeks 5 to 36. Hair and fingernail samples helped confirm the presence or absence of alcohol use. All participants, including those initially treated with placebos, were offered a third session that included psilocybin. The research team plans to conduct a larger, multicenter trial under the FDA’s Investigational New Drug Application sponsored by the nonprofit life science company B.More Although more research is needed to confirm the drug’s effects and clarify appropriate dosing, Dr. Bogenschutz says the results so far suggest it may aid other disorders. “This approach may prove useful in treating addiction to other drugs such nicotine, cocaine, and opioids.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts in psychiatry joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2024 annual meeting in New York City. The theme is “Confronting Addiction from Prevention to Recovery.” View full conference information and abstract titles Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Poster Psychiatric Sequelae of Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome: A Literature Review and New Case of ODS-Induced Mania NYU Langone Presenter : Hager Koraym Saturday, May 4, 2024 Presidential Session The Leading Edge of Psilocybin Therapeutics: Psychiatric and Existential Distress in Advanced Cancer, Alcohol Use Disorder, and Major Depression Stephen Ross, MD : 10:30AM–12:00PM : Rooms 3D04, 3D09, Javits Center Sunday, May 5 General Session Advances in Molecular Biomarkers for PTSD Diagnosis, Risk, and Complications Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD : 8:00–9:30AM : Room 1E13, Javits Center Tuesday, May 7 Words Will Never Hurt Me: Examining the Stigma of Addiction NYU Langone Discussant Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD : Room 1E10, Javits Center Wednesday, May 8 Advancing Precision Medicine for Alcohol Use Disorders NYU Langone Speaker : 3:45–5:15PM : Room 1E08, Javits Center Classifying Glioma in Minutes New AI-driven screening system could transform the molecular diagnosis of diffuse gliomas. New research from neurosurgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health’s , unveils DeepGlioma , a deep learning–based screening system that could allow clinicians to accurately predict diagnostic mutations associated with diffuse gliomas without the need for conventional sequencing methods. With the capacity to achieve an accuracy of 93 percent in less than 90 seconds, the artificial intelligence (AI)–based tool enables rapid molecular subtyping to occur in the operating room. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes.” “DeepGlioma is a game changer for patients,” Dr. Orringer says. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes. This expedites care and allows the surgeon in the operating room to tailor the surgical approach.” NYU Langone was involved in testing the diagnostic screening tool and was one of the first clinical sites in the country to use the technology. Trained on Label-Free Imaging Molecular classification is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of diffuse gliomas, enabling accurate prognostication and personalized treatment. “Access to molecular diagnostic testing remains variable for brain tumors, which complicates prognosis determination, surgical decision-making, resection goals, and selection of chemoradiation regimens,” says Dr. Orringer. “Without real-time genetic testing, it’s not possible to know how aggressive we should be surgically and whether a patient is likely to respond to conventional chemotherapy and radiation.” In designing the system, the researchers trained the model using a multimodal dataset that included stimulated Raman histology (SRH) , a breakthrough in optics that allows for imaging of fresh tissue without sectioning or staining. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” “Using SRH images only, DeepGlioma can determine molecular classification in less than two minutes without the need for tissue processing or human interpretation,” Dr. Orringer explains. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” Streamlining Molecular Classification While the system can scale to an arbitrary number of diagnostic mutations, Dr. Orringer notes the focus is on the major molecular diagnostic alterations used by the World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System (WHO CNS5) classification scheme: IDH mutations, 1p19q chromosome co-deletion, and ATRX loss. Remarkably, the new system achieved a mean molecular classification accuracy of 93.3 percent, ranging from 91.0 to 94.7 percent, depending on the mutation subtype. Across various institutions, the performance of the system generalized well with distinct patient populations, clinical presentations, as well as personnel and infrastructure, Dr. Orringer says, helping providers to define surgical goals with a better-calibrated risk–benefit analysis. Ensuring Access As they employ DeepGlioma for more and more cases, Dr. Orringer and his team are utilizing the tool to expedite the delivery of precision surgical and medical care. “Having a fully autonomous system that is separate from the traditional pathology infrastructure allows patients from lower-resource settings to access effective treatments sooner,” Dr. Orringer says. “Some commercial detection assays are not universally accessible across the country.” He and his team are also developing the system behind DeepGlioma for other cancers. “The use of optical histology and AI to diagnose cancer will have implications for the way that many types of cancers are treated,” Dr. Orringer says. “People with cancer who receive treatment in a setting that has access to the most rapid and readily available molecular diagnostics have the potential to get a higher standard of care.” Neurosurgery, Skull Base Surgery Daniel A. Orringer, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and pathology. His clinical interest lies in skull base surgery and surgical management of brain tumors. His research interests include bioinformatics, neuroimaging, and novel applications of artificial intelligence in medicine. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A blend of traditional education methods and simulation teaches essential skills for virtual neurology evaluation. Neil A. Busis, MD A team of neurologists at NYU Langone Health has crafted a first-of-its-kind training program to instruct neurology residents in performing virtual exams. The unique program includes a simulation component, enabling trainees to rehearse with an actor portraying a patient they will likely see in clinical practice. “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills, which will become increasingly important as the field evolves,” says , an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills.” Since its launch in 2020, the three-year teleneurology program has educated at least 68 neurology residents. A recent study in Neurology: Education details the program’s effectiveness and discusses strategies for adjusting hands-on examination methods for virtual settings. Adapting to the Virtual Setting While virtual healthcare technology has existed in some form for decades, physicians still receive little formal training in its use. “There are some suggested guidelines for teaching teleneurology, though no standard approach among programs,” says Dr. Kurzweil, who served as senior author on the new study. “This is a new frontier. We’re learning alongside trainees what will ensure the best outcomes for learners and patients.” The researchers found that neurology residents preferred various methods for teleneurology training, such as didactics with slides, live demonstrations, simulated experiences, and starting with live patients to reading materials or articles. Simulation Cements Proper Techniques Unlike many other training courses that emphasize telehealth communication skills, the NYU Grossman School of Medicine curriculum’s unique simulation component features a virtual exam. In these 10-minute sessions, residents are expected to diagnose their “patients” and discuss a treatment plan. Actors play “patients,” mimicking the symptoms of meralgia paresthetica, which results from injury to a nerve. “Since we often see patients with meralgia paresthetica, which is commonly misdiagnosed, we decided this was a practical teaching opportunity for virtual exams,” says study co-author , a clinical professor of neurology who also serves as director of the telehealth program in neurology. “It’s also much easier for actors to portray sensory loss than to accurately replicate motor loss found with other conditions.” “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” During the simulated exam, trainees are graded on hard skills such as accuracy and thoroughness. Soft skills, or “webside manner,” like maintaining eye contact, are also evaluated as these behaviors, the authors say, can be lost during the shift from in-person exams to remote ones. Additionally, trainees are required to guide the on-screen “patient” in adjusting their camera so their whole body is visible, and in resolving basic technical issues like unmuting. “Overcoming challenges like poor lighting in the patient’s home, which are realities in daily practice that can limit our ability to evaluate the patient accurately, are an essential skill,” says Dr. Busis. Since the trainees cannot touch the patients in a virtual encounter, Dr. Busis stressed how they must be able to coach patients to conduct self-assessments. “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” Curriculum Increases Comfort with Virtual Exams The new report surveyed trainees with no prior education in virtual care and no previous experience with teleneurology before the program. The authors found that comfort with virtual exams improved from an average score of 2.8 out of 5 (5 representing maximum confidence) to 3.8 out of 5 after the first year. Interest in telehealth grew as well, increasing from an average score of 3.5 out of 5 (5 representing the highest interest) to 4.3 out of 5. The Future of Teleneurology Training Telehealth has become an integral part of medical practice, particularly in neurology clinics where a blend of in-person and remote encounters are emerging as the standard for routine care . According to a recent report from Dr. Kurzweil, Dr. Busis, and colleagues, both patients and neurologists agree that the vast majority— over 90 percent —of teleneurology encounters are effective. Multimodal learning with a simulation component appears to be the key to success in teleneurology training. The team, alongside other colleagues, has added a telestroke simulation to the curriculum for senior residents and may also incorporate new neurologic symptoms like headache, weakness, and dizziness into the simulated encounters. Neil A. Busis, MD, is a clinical professor and associate chair of technology and innovation in the Department of Neurology, and director of NYU Langone’s telehealth program in neurology. His research interests include telehealth, health information technology (HIT), coding, documentation and billing for medical services and procedures, burnout, career satisfaction, and physician wellbeing. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet This month’s case presentation describes a patient with multiple urological complaints, including erectile dysfunction, who experienced significant improvements after adopting a healthy plant-based diet. As urologists, we have the power not only to help our patients with their genitourinary issues but also to optimize their overall health and longevity. Counseling patients about eating more healthy plant-based food is an important way to promote cardiovascular and metabolic health, which has also been associated with better erectile and urinary function—a win-win. Urologists may not have the time, resources, or expertise to directly support patients with a change in nutrition. However, building collaborations with qualified professionals and providing referrals are essential ways to deliver additional patient support. Below, we share how we counseled the patient on healthy plant-based eating. We also outline the resources and referral networks we use to connect patients with additional information and expert support. The patient was on tadalafil to manage his erectile dysfunction and Flomax for urinary symptoms. He expressed confidence in making a lifestyle change and was referred to a health coach and dietitian. After several months on a vegan diet, he discontinued both medications, lost weight, and improved his hypertension. Patients can be directed to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine Plant Powered Metro New York , and other resources for further support in adopting a plant-based diet. Patient Case The patient, a 69-year-old male with a history of hypertension and being overweight, presented to the urology clinic with erectile dysfunction and lower urinary tract symptoms. He was taking tadalafil (20 mg, as needed) and Flomax (0.4 mg, daily) for these conditions. The patient had read about a lower risk of erectile dysfunction with a plant-based diet and was interested in adopting the diet. He expressed motivation to change his diet within the next month and scored his confidence in making a lifestyle change as a 9 out of 10. Because the patient was ready to change his diet, we discussed his goals and what resources he would need. We referred the patient to a health coach and dietitian experienced with plant-based nutrition and provided a list of resources. During subsequent visits, we reviewed his action plan, discussing progress and barriers. After successfully adopting a vegan diet for several months, the patient was able to discontinue medication for erections and urinary symptoms. In addition, at the most recent follow-up, he had lost 11 pounds and his blood pressure had improved (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s health status and medication usage before and after adopting a plant-based diet. Source: NYU Langone Health These health improvements provided satisfaction and motivation for him to continue the plant-based diet. Plant-based diets are popular due to the many benefits for health and the environment. According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, vegetarian and vegan diets are nutritionally adequate at all stages of life and provide health benefits. Indeed, there is a large body of literature supporting the role of plant-based diets in the prevention and management of chronic diseases, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease. This is particularly germane to erectile function, often called the “canary in the coal mine” (meaning an early warning sign) for cardiovascular disease. Several recent studies have looked at the role of plant-based dietary patterns in erectile function. For example, using data from a survey performed in the United States, Carto et al. reported that greater consumption of a healthy plant-based diet (e.g., fruits, vegetables, grains, and legumes) was associated with a significantly lower risk of erectile dysfunction after adjusting for other factors. Similar results were reported by Yang et al. in a large cohort of male health professionals, in which greater consumption of healthy plant-based food was associated with a lower risk of erectile dysfunction. With regard to lower urinary tract symptoms, a study from Australia reported that a “vegetable” dietary pattern was associated with significantly lower odds of surgically treated benign prostatic hyperplasia. Even among patients with a history of prostate cancer treated by radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy, consuming more plant-based food and less animal-based food was associated with significantly better scores for posttreatment erectile function and urinary quality of life. National guidelines recommend notifying patients that erectile dysfunction is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and recommending lifestyle modifications like diet and physical activity. Healthful behavior change is an individualized process that evolves over time. In the field of lifestyle medicine, the transtheoretical model is often used to conceptualize the stages of change, which includes precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, maintence, and termination. The goal is to identify each patient’s readiness to make a change in a particular behavior, such as their diet, and to help them develop an action plan if they are considering a change before the next visit. A helpful strategy is for the patient to set SMART goals (“Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Timebound”) for the desired behavior. To direct patients to more information, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine website offers numerous handouts and recipe guides for plant-based nutrition, as well as a directory to locate nearby health professionals with expertise in plant-based nutrition. There are also many online programs with dietitians and health coaches who can provide more hands-on support for patients, such as the 21-Day Plant Powered Jumpstart program , offered virtually by Plant Powered Metro New York. 1. Melina V, et al. J Acad Nutr Diet . 2016;116(12):1970-1980. 2. Yannas D, et al. Int J Impot Res . 2024;36(4):452–453. 3. Carto C, et al. . 2022;161:76–82. 4. Yang H, et al. BJU Int . 2022;130(4):514–521. 5. Ambrosini GL, et al. . 2008;101(7):853–860. 6. Loeb S, et al. . 2024;130(9):1618–1628. 7. Burnett AL, et al. J Urol . 2018 Sept;200(3):633–641. 8. Prochaska JO, Velicer WF. Am J Health Promot . 1997;12(1):38–48. Stacy Loeb, MD Stacy Loeb, MD, a professor of urology and population health, is a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center and a noted expert in prostate cancer. Her research interests include early detection, active surveillance, the importance of lifestyle, and the impact of social media on decision-making. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis A CT scan of the patient's UTUC. Source: NYU Langone Health. Patient interest in kidney-sparing treatment options for upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is growing. At NYU Langone Health, we have seen excellent success with one such treatment, chemoablation with UGN-101 (Jelmyto), and treat a large number of patients with the agent. In this Case of the Month, we present an elderly patient with a low-grade UTUC obstructing her only remaining kidney. Over a decade earlier, she had undergone a nephroureterectomy for the disease, but now faced a new primary tumor threatening her renal function and raising the possibility of dialysis. Hoping to avoid such an outcome, she sought alternatives to surgery that could preserve her quality of life. Her case underscores the important role of innovative therapies that provide patients the chance to spare their kidney. A 91-year-old female with a history of UTUC and prior left nephroureterectomy presented with a tumor obstructing her right ureter. She underwent endoscopic resection to preserve her remaining kidney, followed by UGN-101 induction to reduce recurrence risk. She remains recurrence-free over 18 months later. At NYU Langone, UGN-101 is widely used, with around 10 percent of cases involving patients with a single kidney. The 91-year-old female patient was healthy and functional, with a history of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC). Over 11 years ago, she underwent a left nephroureterectomy for this disease. Unfortunately, due to the recurrent manner of UTUC and the metachronous occurrence, she presented now with a low-grade tumor obstructing her remaining kidney. The tumor was located in the ureter on the right side (Figure 1) and she was experiencing a slight decline in her renal function. She wanted to avoid dialysis, which would be necessary if her kidney were to be removed. Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s upper tract urothelial carcinoma, located in her right ureter. We performed a ureteroscopy with laser resection of the ureteral tumor and complete visual removal of the mass. A ureteral stent was left in place after surgery to prevent any ureteral stricture from the area of the laser ablation. The patient had a strong understanding of the disease and recognized the risk of recurrence to be upward of 60 percent or even higher in some reports. The patient expressed ongoing worry about her age, which made further surgical resections and ablations less ideal. At this point, we discussed Jelmyto, a reverse thermal hydrogel installation of mitomycin. The gel is liquid at low temperatures, allowing it to be easily instilled via a catheter, and it solidifies at body temperature, enabling prolonged local drug exposure to the tumor site. It is typically administered once weekly for six weeks. In the first experiences with this formulation in a real-world setting, the complete response rate of the cancer after a complete endoscopic ablation was over 75 percent in patients with low-grade UTUC. Long-term data is not yet published, but at the American Urological Association’s 2024 annual meeting, an abstract was presented on this topic: in those patients who had a complete response after UGN-101 induction, the median survival was not reached, and recurrence-free survival at 24 months was over 85 percent. For our elderly patient seeking options to improve her overall quality of life, the results have been very similar. After complete endoscopic tumor removal and induction UGN-101, she has remained recurrence-free for over 18 months. UGN-101 was approved in early 2020, and since then its use for low-grade UTUC has continued to grow in the United States. At NYU Langone, we offer it alongside other new therapies for patients with all disease states. The experience has been positive and has been widely adopted by all urological oncologists and endourologists within the Department of Urology . Roughly 10 percent of our UGN-101 treatments are for patients with a single remaining kidney. In the case presented, a patient with one kidney sought to avoid a rigorous dialysis regimen in her remaining years. Tumor resection made this possible, while UGN-101 helped address her concerns about recurrence. To support informed treatment decisions, the American Urological Association released its first UTUC guidelines in 2023. The resource allows for risk stratification and the judicious use of aggressive treatments for high-risk disease and less-aggressive therapies and interventions for low-risk disease. Woldu SL, et al. Urol Oncol . 2023;41(3):147.e15-147.e21. Feldman AS, et al. . 2024;211(5S):e891. Coleman JA, et al. . 2023;209(6):1071-1081. Katie S. Murray, DO Katie S. Murray, DO, is a professor of urology and chief of the urology service at Bellevue Hospital Center. Her clinical practice focuses on prostate, testicular, bladder, kidney and ureter cancers. TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst MRI of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health We recently made an uncommon diagnosis: a recurrent midline prostatic cyst causing partial ejaculatory duct obstruction and infertility. The patient had severe oligoasthenozoospermia and reported ejaculatory symptoms of delayed, uncomfortable, and low-volume ejaculate. While cyst aspiration at another center temporarily alleviated the ejaculatory symptoms, they quickly returned. At our office, transrectal sonography confirmed the cyst’s recurrence, prompting a successful transurethral resection of the ejaculatory ducts (TURED). This Case of the Month highlights the rare but treatable nature of midline prostatic cysts as a cause of male infertility, with properly performed TURED offering significant symptom relief and improved fertility outcomes. The 28-year-old male presented with fertility concerns and ejaculatory symptoms, with a history of an aspirated midline prostatic cyst and bilateral varicoceles. Given that cyst aspiration is not definitive, and varicoceles could not explain all symptoms, we suspected cyst recurrence, confirmed by imaging. TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy were performed without complication. Ejaculatory symptoms resolved immediately postsurgery; semen analysis at 10 months showed sustained success, with normal ejaculate volume and near-normal semen parameters. The 28-year-old male presented to our clinic for evaluation and management of ejaculatory pain and male infertility. He complained of chronic low-ejaculate volume and post-ejaculatory pain. Previous evaluation for male fertility concerns and painful ejaculation had shown low sperm count and motility, as well as abnormal morphology. A prostate MRI one year prior to his visit revealed a 19-cc prostate with a midline cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm × 1.3 cm (Figure 1). The patient had undergone cyst aspiration under ultrasound guidance. This resulted in a transient improvement in ejaculate volume and resolution of peri-ejaculatory pain. Within three months, the patient developed recurrent symptoms with low-ejaculate volume and pain after ejaculation. Figure 1. MRI of the patient’s prostate with a midline prostate cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm x 1.3 cm (arrow). Source: NYU Langone Health Medical Examination Physical Exam—Genitourinary Findings Penis Normal circumcised appearance, no lesions or palpable plaques. Glans without hyperemia, normal meatus. Epididymis Non-tender bilaterally. No evidence of fullness. Testis Palpable in dependent scrotum bilaterally symmetric. Both slightly small (15 to 20 cc), no masses palpable. Vas Deferens Palpable bilaterally. Left grade 3 varicocele. Right grade 1 varicocele Labs Results Semen Analysis Volume 1.4 mL (low; no collection issues) pH 8.2 Concentration 4 million/cc (low Motility 14% (low) Morphology 2% (low) Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 4.8 (normal) Testosterone 679 ng/dl (normal) Diagnosis and Management Varicoceles may result in abnormal semen parameters. However, the resurgence of painful and low-volume ejaculate suggested a recurrence (refilling) of the prostatic cyst as the cause of the patient’s symptoms, as cyst aspiration is typically not definitive. After transrectal sonography confirmed recurrence of the previously aspirated midline prostatic cyst (Figure 2), the patient was diagnosed with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction due to midline prostatic cyst, along with bilateral varicoceles. Figure 2. Transrectal sonogram showing a recurrence of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient underwent TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy. The verumontanum, which had a typical appearance that was full and bulbous, was resected using pure cutting current using a conventional resectoscope. Flow of milky-appearing fluid from the open ducts was seen after the resection. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before and after TURED are shown below (Figures 3 and 4). Figure 3. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Figure 4. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum after TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Following the procedure, the patient had complete resolution of the ejaculatory pain with increased ejaculate volume. He remained asymptomatic at a 10-month follow up. Semen analysis showed a normal volume ejaculate (2.5 cc) with improved Kruger morphology, normal concentration, and sperm motility. This case demonstrates how TURED can offer rapid and lasting symptom relief for patients with ejaculatory duct obstruction. TURED is minimally invasive and highly effective, addressing both fertility concerns as well as discomfort related to ejaculation and urination. The procedure provides durable outcomes, making it a rewarding option for patients. Ejaculatory duct obstruction is a rare cause of male infertility that is diagnosed in 1 to 5 percent of infertile men. The condition may be congenital or acquired, with the latter typically due to post-inflammatory scar formation in the prostate or seminal vesicle calculi. Congenital causes are attributed to ejaculatory duct atresia or stenosis and utricular cysts. Utricular cysts have been historically referred to as Müllerian (paramesonephric) duct cysts. However, immunohistochemical studies have shown evidence that the utricle is not a Müllerian duct remnant and instead has a distinct origin from the dorsal wall of the urogenital sinus. Cases of partial ejaculatory duct obstruction may progress to complete obstruction and diagnosis may be challenging, requiring a high index of suspicion. Although vasography can provide a definitive diagnosis, transrectal sonography with a 7 MHz probe alone is sufficient to establish the diagnosis, as it is less invasive and highly reliable. Our patient met two of the three typical indications criteria for intervention and treatment (infertility, ejaculatory pain, and hematospermia). Initially described for treatment of ejaculatory duct stenosis more than 50 years ago, TURED is performed using standard or pediatric resectoscopes under general or regional anesthesia using cutting current to minimize scarring and restenosis of the ejaculatory ducts. Since many patients undergoing the procedure are diagnosed during infertility workup and are younger, with smaller prostates, special attention should be paid to avoid bladder neck, rectal, or sphincteric injuries when resecting the verumontanum. Although use of the O’Connor drape for seminal vesicle palpation has been described, I have not found this to be necessary in the vast majority of cases. Ejaculation may resume in one week. Urethral catheterization for 24 hours after the procedure is optional. In my experience, relief of ejaculatory pain is usually immediate, but it may take a few months to achieve maximal ejaculatory volumes and improved semen parameters. The vast majority of appropriately selected patients with low volume azoospermia due to ejaculatory duct obstruction will have a dramatic improvement in ejaculatory volume and semen parameters, but 10 to 15 percent may convert to normal volume azoospermia due to more proximal or epididymal obstruction. Patients with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction will similarly see significantly improved ejaculate volumes, though a small percentage may become azoospermic due to postoperative ejaculatory duct fibrosis and are well advised to cryopreserve sperm prior to the procedure. Pryor JP, Hendry WF. Fertil Steril . 1991;56(4):725-730. Shapiro E, et al. . 2004;172(4 Pt 2):1753-1756. Modgil V, et al. Nat Rev Urol . 2016;13(1):13-20. Belker AM, Steinbock GS. . 1990;144(2 Pt 1):356-358. Xu B, et al. . 2011;108(2):263-266. Urology, Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Hossein Sadeghi-Nejad, MD, is a professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology. Dual fellowship-trained in male infertility and sexual dysfunction, he specializes in treating infertility, erectile dysfunction, Peyronie’s disease, testosterone deficiency, and urinary sytmptoms caused by an enlarged prostate. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions Chicago, IL. Source: Getty Images Our researchers and clinicians in cardiovascular disease will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association 2024 Scientific Sessions in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, November 16 Moderated Digital Poster Fitbit-Measured Physical Activity Is Inversely Associated with Incident Atrial Fibrillation Among All of US Patients (Abstract ) NYU Langone Presenters: Souptik Barua, PhD 10:00–10:05AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 15 Oral Abstract Session Sex Differences in Psychosocial Factors and Angina in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease Anais Hausvater, MD 10:30–10:40AM S103BC Presentation Dissecting the Cellular and Molecular Immune Interactions in Coronary Artery Disease 10:30–10:42AM S105ABC Demystifying Chest Pain in Women Harmony R. Reynolds, MD 1:48–1:57PM Main Event II Sunday, November 17 Discussion: Next Directions in Interventional Science Binita Shah, MD NYU Langone Moderator: Sunil Rao, MD 9:09–9:11AM S103D Suicide and Self-Harm with GLP-1 Receptor Agonists: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials 10:20–10:25AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 13 [Learn more about this new study by Dr. Heffron and team .] Clinical Studies and Trials to Reduce Cardiovascular Risks