Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request an Amendment Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to maintaining accurate, clear, and complete medical and billing records and to upholding a patient’s rights with respect to their health information. To this end, patients are permitted to request, in writing, that NYU Langone Health amend Protected Health Information (“PHI”) contained in NYU Langone Health’s Designated Record Set or in a Designated Record Set held by a NYU Langone Health Business Associate. This right applies only to factual statements contained in the record and not to the provider’s observations, inferences, or conclusions. The request to amend PHI may be denied if it is determined that the information recorded: • is accurate and complete, • was created by another provider (i.e., an external record or not originator of record), • is no longer maintained by NYU Langone Health (e.g., the record has been destroyed in accordance with the Records Retention policy), and/or • is not available for access by the patient (see chart reference in Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI policy). The patient may require NYU Langone Health to append a brief statement of disagreement prepared by the patient to the record at issue. The statement of disagreement should not exceed 500 words. The patient’s statement of disagreement must be released whenever the information at issue is released. Alternatively, the patient may request NYU Langone Health to release the patient’s request form and the denial letter whenever the information at issue is released. If the information at issue is Disclosed through an electronic transaction that does not permit inclusion of the statement of disagreement, the form, and/or denial letter, Health Information Management (“HIM”) personnel or other appropriate Workforce Member must separately transmit the material with the Disclosure or request. Procedure When an adult patient, a minor who is allowed to consent to his or her own Treatment, or the parent or guardian of a minor patient believes that the health information NYU Langone Health maintains in a Designated Record Set is inaccurate or incomplete, the patient may request an amendment to that information. Page 2 of 4 1. The patient must submit the request in writing, by completing a Request to Amend Protected Health Information form and submit it as follows: • to amend Tisch Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, and other NYU Langone Hospitals site records not listed, submit to: Patient Relations Office 550 1St Ave, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 6906) or the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer (One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). • to amend NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn records, submit to: Patient Relations Office 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (718 630 7314). • to amend NYU Winthrop Hospital records, submit to: Patient Relations Office, 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 (516 663 2058). • to amend Perlmutter Cancer Center records, submit to: HIM, Perlmutter Cancer Center, 160 E 34th St, 10th Floor, NY, NY 10003 (212 731 5096). • to amend Faculty Group Practice records, submit directly to the individual practice location/practice manager. • to amend Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health or the NYU Langone Health Home Care, submit to the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). • to amend Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records, submit to: 219 54th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (929 455 2099). • for any other location or if unsure where to submit, send to Patient Relations Office, 550 1st Ave, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 6906) or the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer at One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). 2. The receiving Workforce Member will acknowledge receipt of the form within seven (7) days. If a request for amendment is part of a formal, written patient complaint, Patient Relations will acknowledge receipt. 3. The appropriate Workforce Member, in consultation with the clinician of record and the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) as necessary, will determine whether to grant or deny the patient’s request to amend. 4. The appropriate Workforce Member must respond to the patient’s request within 60 days of receipt of the form. One 30 day extension is permitted so long as the patient is notified in writing of the reason for the extension and the date the patient can expect a response. 5. NYU Langone Health will accept or deny the requested amendment. The determination will be made by the treating clinician or author of the subject of the amendment, in consultation with other Workforce Members, including IACERM as necessary. i. If the patient’s request to amend is granted: • The clinician of record will amend or correct the record that is the subject of the request, dating and signing any amendment or correction in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy. Page 3 of 4 • The appropriate Workforce Member will notify the patient in writing of the decision and will make reasonable efforts to provide the amendment to persons identified by the patient and to persons, including Business Associates, whom NYU Langone Health knows has the information that is the subject of the patient’s request. • The amendment must be released whenever the information at issue is Disclosed. If the information is Disclosed through an electronic transaction that does not permit inclusion of the amended material, HIM personnel or the appropriate Workforce Member must separately transmit the amended material. ii. If the patient’s request to amend is denied, in whole or in part: • The appropriate Workforce Member will notify the patient in writing of the decision using the Request to Amend Protected Health Information Denied template letter, including:  the ground for denial,  a statement of the patient’s right to submit a statement of disagreement not to exceed 500 words,  a statement that the patient may alternatively request that NYU Langone include the patient’s form and the denial letter when disclosing information to others in the future, and  a description of how the patient may complain to the NYU Langone Privacy Officer, the U.S. Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the New York State Department of Health (or other appropriate oversight agency). 6. NYU Langone Health may prepare a written rebuttal to the patient’s written statement to be included in the patient’s record and released whenever the information at issue is released. NYU Langone Health must provide a copy of the rebuttal statement to the patient. 7. If NYU Langone Health is informed, by another provider, of an amendment to a patient’s record, Workforce Members, in consultation with IACERM, will make the requested amendment and will date and sign any amendment that is made in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy. 8. HIM, practice managers, and/or the clinician of record are responsible for ensuring that the patient’s form, denial letter, if any, rebuttal statement, if any, and NYU Langone Health’s rebuttal statement, if any, are appended to the record and information at issue, whether in paper or electronic form (e.g., scanned into Epic) and included in any subsequent Disclosure of the information at issue. Related Documents Designated Record Sets HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Request to Amend Protected Health Information Denied template Request to Amend Protected Health Information form Page 4 of 4 Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.526 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request Confidential or Alternative Communications Policy NYU Langone Health permits patients to request confidential or alternative communications with respect to their Protected Health Information (“PHI”). For example, a patient may request that NYU Langone Health communicate with them at his or her place of employment rather than his or her place of residence, or at a designated address or email address. All requests for confidential communications after initial patient intake should be submitted in writing, unless the request is made in an urgent or emergency situation. Workforce Members must document the date of the request and the alternative communication method or address in the patient’s medical record. NYU Langone Health will accommodate all reasonable requests for alternative communications. A request is unreasonable if it is impractical (e.g., a request to communicate with a patient only within a short period of time after office hours). The patient is required to explain why they are requesting alternative communication as a condition to accommodating the patient’s request. However, if appropriate under the circumstances, NYU Langone Health may require the patient to explain how payment for treatment will be handled, and/or to specify an alternative address, or other method of contact before providing the requested accommodation. The request form will be maintained by IACERM. All agreed upon confidential or alternative communications will also be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. To ensure compliance with patient requests, Workforce Members should review a patient’s medical record to determine whether a patient has requested confidential or alternative communications. Procedure 1. At the time of intake, Workforce Members will ask the patient for his or her preferred contact information. The Workforce Member will document the patient’s preferred contact information in the demographics section of the patient’s medical record. Should the patient request confidential communications, the confidential address or other contact information will be flagged in the patient’s medical record. Page 2 of 2 2. After initial intake, all patient requests for alternative communications must be made in writing. To request alternative communications, the patient should complete the Patient Request for Confidential Communications of Protected Health Information form. 3. Workforce Members will forward the patient’s completed form to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). 4. IACERM will determine whether NYU Langone Health will accommodate the patient’s request. IACERM will notify the patient of his or her decision in writing as soon as possible but no later than 30 days from the receipt of the request. 5. The alternative communication method or location must be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. 6. Before communicating with a patient, Workforce Members must review the patient’s medical record to determine if an alternative communication method or location is in place. 7. If the patient requests email communication, all such email communications may only be sent using a NYU Langone Health approved encryption method, such as SendSafe Secure Email. Related Documents Disclosure of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Patient Request for Confidential Communications of Protected Health Information form Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522(b) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Safeguarding PHI Policy NYU Langone Health will use reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to limit intentional or unintentional Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health will also use these safeguards to protect against the inadvertent Disclosure of PHI to persons other than the intended recipient. Workforce Members will only access PHI when there is a legitimate clinical, billing, or business reason to do so. NYU Langone Health will monitor all information systems, networks, hardware, and NYU Langone Health work sites to ensure compliance with this Policy. Procedures Administrative, technical, and physical safeguards include but are not limited to the following procedures: 1. All Workforce Members are required to read and sign the Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Statement. This form will be retained in the individual’s Human Resources file or where otherwise applicable. 2. Protecting Oral PHI: • Conversations in which PHI is discussed should be made, to the extent possible, in a manner and location that protects the confidentiality of the information discussed. • Conversations with patients or a patient’s family members in public areas should be conducted in a lowered voice, to the extent possible, so that unauthorized individuals cannot overhear the discussion. In emergency situations or where a patient is hearing impaired, take reasonable precautions to limit discussion of PHI. • Avoid using PHI in conversations in public areas, such as hallways or elevators. 3. Protecting Electronic PHI: • Store all PHI, Personally Identifiable Information (“PII”), and NYU Langone Health data on the network drive unless absolutely necessary to perform your job duties. If data must be stored on a portable device, that device must be encrypted (e.g., Iron Key). Page 2 of 3 • Emails containing PHI, PII, or other sensitive data to all non NYU Langone Health domain recipients (i.e., non @nyulangone.org or @med.nyu.edu) must be sent using NYU Langone Health’s secure, encrypted email, SendSafe. • If it is necessary to email PHI, only include the minimum amount of PHI necessary. Only send to the minimum number of recipients necessary, or those who ‘need to know’ to perform their jobs. • All laptops and portable devices, used to store NYU Langone Health data, must be encrypted. • Do not store any NYU Langone Health data, including PHI or employee information, on an unencrypted USB or external drive. The use of unencrypted USBs or external drives to store NYU Langone Health data will result in disciplinary action. If necessary to perform your job duties, encrypted Iron Key USB drives are available from Medical Center Information Technology (“MCIT”) by submitting a ticket to the MCIT Service Catalog. • PHI or PII may not be sent via text messaging (SMS), even if utilizing an MCIT managed device. SMS text messages are not secure. Other secure messaging systems may be available. Consult with the Privacy Officer and MCIT Security as necessary. 4. Protecting Written PHI: • All documents that contain PHI will be stored and maintained in a manner that minimizes the potential for incidental Use or Disclosure. Lock drawers and offices when possible. • Always double check, using double identifiers, to ensure that the correct paper document(s) is handed to the correct recipient. • All documents containing PHI will be properly disposed of, in compliance with all NYU Langone Health document retention and disposal policies. 5. NYU Langone Health will identify Workforce Members who need access to PHI to carry out their duties. When possible, restrictions to access only the minimum necessary amount of PHI to perform one’s duties are used. 6. All Workforce Members are responsible for entries and queries under their unique user identity (e.g., Kerberos ID). Users must not share their IDs and password. 7. Workforce Members must log out of databases or electronic health record systems before stepping away or leaving a work station to prevent inappropriate access to patient information. 8. Access to areas that contain PHI are monitored and controlled to the extent reasonably possible (e.g., lock doors and file cabinets). 9. All Workforce Members will follow NYU Langone Health policies on proper destruction and disposal of PHI. Do not discard or reprovision any device containing PHI without first assuring the PHI has been removed or obliterated by MCIT. Consult MCIT for proper disposal of electronic devices. Page 3 of 3 10. Measures to ensure that PHI is adequately shielded to prevent unauthorized Disclosures will be used (e.g., privacy screens on computers in public areas). Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Medical Center Information Technology Security Policies Medical Center Information Technology Workforce Members IT Policy Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Statement Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(c) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


RETURN SERVICE REQUESTED Please check box if below address is incorrect or insurance information has changed and indicate changes on reverse side.REMIT TO:PATIENT NAMESTREET ADDRESSCITY, ST ZIPNEW YORK UNIVERSITYPHYSICIAN SERVICESP.O. BOX 415662BOSTON, MA 02241STATEMENT DATE 11/02/16PATIENT NAMEFIRST LASTACCOUNT #XXXXTOTAL BALANCE$129.46PAY THIS AMOUNT$129.46AMOUNT PAID$PLEASE DETACH AND RETURN TOP PORTION WITH YOUR PAYMENT.STATEMENT SUMMARYAMOUNTBILLEDYOUR INSURANCE PLAN PAIDDISCOUNTSAPPLIEDYOUR PATIENTRESPONSIBILITYYOU ALREADY PAIDYOUR TOTALBALANCEAMOUNTDUE$420.00$0.00$290.54$129.46$0.00$129.46$129.46To pay by credit card or contact customer service please call: (877) 648 2964 or visit http://mychart.nyulmc.org.STATEMENT DETAILSServiceDateProviderDescriptionChargesCreditsInsuranceBalancePatientBalanceRADIOLOGY08/09/2016Chloe MuychouChhor, MD76641 ULTRASOUND OF ONEBREAST210.000.0064.73 YOUR INSURANCE PAID OSCAR0.00 DISCOUNTS APPLIED OSCAR YOUR DEDUCTIBLE IS: 64.73145.2708/09/2016Chloe MuychouChhor, MD76641 ULTRASOUND OF ONEBREAST210.000.0064.73 YOUR INSURANCE PAID OSCAR0.00 DISCOUNTS APPLIED OSCAR YOUR DEDUCTIBLE IS: 64.73145.27RADIOLOGY SUBTOTAL420.00290.540.00129.46YOUR TOTAL BALANCE129.46CURRENTPAST DUECREDIT BALANCETOTAL BALANCEPATIENTBALANCE$129.46$ 0.00$0.00$129.46Important Message Regarding Your AccountYou are responsible for the full balance of any out of pocket costs applied by your plan.To pay by credit card or contact customer service please call: (877) 648 2964 or visit http://mychart.nyulmc.org.PAGE 1 OF 1NEW YORK UNIVERSITYPHYSICIAN SERVICESP.O. BOX 415662BOSTON, MA 02241Amount to be PaidAddress to Mail Your CheckCheck this Box and mail back the statement with any updated informationYour Account NumberSummary of the billOur phone # and website for customer service and credit card paymentsDetails about your balances including the description of the service and reason for the bill (ex: Deductible)Credits that exist on your account and the net balance that you oweImportant messages about your account and our phone # and link to MyChartPast due balances for this statement


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Sanctions for HIPAA Violations Policy NYU Langone Health will impose appropriate sanctions against Workforce Members who violate HIPAA or NYU Langone Health’s HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. NYU Langone Health will consider all relevant factors in determining the nature and severity of the sanction, including but not limited to: • the intent of the Workforce Member, • the severity of the violation, and • whether the violation indicated a pattern or practice of improper Use or Disclosure of Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health’s Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) will document all reported Incidents and any sanctions that are applied. Workforce Members may also be subject to external civil and criminal sanctions resulting from HIPAA violations. For example: • A health professional’s respective licensing board may impose additional penalties including revocation of such professional’s license, if the violation is required to be reported. • Criminal sanctions could be imposed on an individual who is convicted of a violation under false pretenses or has the intent to sell, transfer, or use PHI for commercial advantage. NYU Langone Health may also be subject to civil and criminal penalties by Federal or state government agencies. Procedure 1. Workforce Members shall report any violation of the HIPAA Rules, regulations, or NYU Langone Health’s Privacy Policies and Procedures that they become aware of to IACERM via the HIPAA Helpline by phone 1 877 PHI LOSS (1 877 744 5677) or online at https://www.incidentform.com/HIPAA.nyulmc.jsp , or to IACERM directly at 212 404 4079. 2. IACERM shall investigate the matter, determine the cause of the violation, and take the necessary steps with respect to disciplinary action in consultation with the Human Page 2 of 2 Resources/Employee and Labor Relations Department and the employee’s supervisor, to address the non compliance including: • mitigation, • a warning, • re training, • suspension, and/or • other disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. 3. Any resulting sanctions will be documented. IACERM will coordinate with the Human Resources/Employee and Labor Relations Department, as appropriate, to carry out the sanctions process. Related Documents Breach Notification Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Mitigation of HIPAA Related Incidents Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(e) 42 USC §1320d 5 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Orthopedic SurgerySecond Opinion ReportPrepared by Mehul R. Shah, MDNYU Langone OrthopedicsFor Christian JonesDecember 31, 2022Mehul R. Shah MDI specialize in sports related injuries as well as arthroscopic and reconstructive surgery of the knee, shoulder, and ankle. I also perform cartilage restoration surgery and administer platelet rich plasma (PRP) and stem cell injections.I take pride in my conservative approach to treating patients. Whenever possible, we begin with nonsurgical treatments, and proceed to surgery if necessary. My goal is to restore a patient’s function and help them return to the activities they enjoy—whether it’s throwing a football again or being able to pick up a child.My clinical research focuses on shoulder and knee injuries, cartilage restoration, and anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries.Christian is a 20 year old, Division 1 lacrosse player who six weeks ago sustained a non contact injury to his right knee during a game. He reports that he felt a “pop” in his knee and was unable to continue playing. He noticed significant swelling of his knee after the injury. He has seen another orthopedic surgeon, who, upon examination, suspected it was an ACL SpecialtiesTreatsLanguagesCredentialsAbout MeCase SummarySports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic SurgeryAdultsEnglishPositionsAssistant Professor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Chief, Sports Medicine Service, Bellevue HospitalBoard CertificationsAmerican Board of Orthopedic Surgery Orthopedic Surgery, 2009Education and TrainingFellowship, Lenox Hill Hospital, Sports Medicine, 2007Residency, New York University, Orthopedic Surgery, 2006MD from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 2001Doctor and Patient ProfilesAgeSex20MaleChristian Jones2tear. An MRI of the knee was performed, which showed an isolated, complete ACL rupture without associated injuries to the menisci, cartilage, or other ligaments. He was advised to undergo ACL reconstruction and is seeking a second opinion. Your Questions Our AnswersQ1Q2Is surgery for my ACL necessary?The ACL or “Anterior Cruciate Ligament” is the main stabilizer of the knee. When one ruptures one’s ACL, the knee commonly becomes more lax, and the patient may notice it giving way or instability of the knee with cutting or pivoting maneuvers. Additionally, when a knee is ACL deficient, more stresses are placed on the menisci and articular cartilage and may lead to damage to those structures. ACL reconstruction is what we describe as “elective” surgery. One does not need an ACL to walk, ride a bicycle, or, in many cases, jog in a straight line. However, young, active patients who want to return to cutting/pivoting sports such as lacrosse, basketball, soccer, etc., will likely require ACL reconstruction to do so. Less active patients may be able to cope or modify their activities to compensate for a lack of an ACL. They may be treated with PT and/or bracing to to help them return to their activities.How soon does surgery need to be performed? Can I wait to have surgery until a more convenient time?As you already know, when one tears one’s ACL, it is painful, stiff, and swollen for some time. It is important to bring the swelling down and regain range of motion before proceeding Q34Second Opinion for Christian JonesI have read in the news that ACL repair is an option. Would you recommend ACL repair over reconstruction for me? Recently, techniques have been developed to attempt to repair the ACL in certain circumstances. As technology and techniques evolve, this may be an exciting option in the future. However, ACL reconstruction currently remains the gold standard and is what I would recommend in your case. with surgery. Though there are special circumstances that require urgent surgery, evidence shows that if ACL reconstruction is done too early, one is more prone to developing stiffness or arthrofibrosis after surgery.There is some evidence to suggest that in young, active patients, delaying surgery more than several weeks may put the knee at risk for meniscus injury. As the menisci are the shock absorbers of the knee, their integrity is important for the overall longevity of your knee. Q4When can I anticipate returning to sports?The exact return to sports timeline may depend on graft choice and any additional repairs made to the meniscus or articular cartilage during your surgery. As well, the decision to return to sports depends on your progress through physical therapy and the time it takes you to regain your strength and range of motion. Assuming you undergo an isolated ACL reconstruction using autograft (your own tissue), typically you are cleared to return to cutting and pivoting sports after 9 months. #1 Hospital in New YorkThank you for choosing NYU Langone Health.At NYU Langone, our experts treat patients from all over the United States and abroad. If you want to schedule a visit with your second opinion doctor or any of our other orthopedic surgery physicians, please visitnyulangone.org/orthopedics


Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email RecipientsRegistration Process Step 1: Upon receipt of your first encrypted email, you will receive an email notification alerting you to a secure message in your personal email inbox.Step 2: Click on the link contained in the email prompting you to register in the MCIT approved SendSafe email messaging system. Page 1 of 3Step 3: Next, you will be prompted to create a passphrase. Afterwards, click “Continue” to proceed.Note: You must create a unique passphrase for the SendSafe messaging system. It should be different than the password used to access NYU Langone Health's network. Step 4: The default delivery option “SendSafe Secure Web Email” is selected, which allows you to receive the message in traditional email format. Click “Choose Option” to proceed. The “SendSafe Secure PDF Email” delivery option is an advanced feature. Page 2 of 3Page 3 of 3Prior to selecting your delivery option, please review the detailed instructions below: