we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Health’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $141,393.82 – $204,223.82 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. | December 20, 2013 NYU Langone Medical Center Announces $50 Million Gift to Create the New Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services YU Langone Medical Center and its longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50 million gift to create the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services (Perelman Emergency Center). The Perelman Emergency Center, expected to be completed in April 2014, will be a 22,000 square-foot state-of-the-art emergency care center located in Tisch Hospital on the Medical Center’s main campus on Manhattan’s east side. The Perelman Emergency Center more than triples the size of the former Emergency Department (ED). “We are delighted that The Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services will soon transform the way emergency care is delivered in the community, hard-hit after Superstorm Sandy caused our emergency department to close," said , dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center. “Mr. Perelman’s generous gift will allow us to provide the community with access to advanced adult and pediatric emergency services, and is central to our ability to run a 21 st century academic medical center.” The new Perelman Emergency Center is part of NYU Langone’s sweeping campus transformation designed to modernize its infrastructure in order to more efficiently and effectively meet the health care demands of today’s complex health care delivery system. Located at 570 First Avenue, it will include: A separate, dedicated entrance on 33rd Street and 1st Avenue for adult walk-in and ambulance patients; For the first time there will be an area solely dedicated to pediatric emergency services; Spacious waiting rooms and improved wayfinding to increase patient flow and enable patients and families to be more comfortable; Increase in treatment rooms designed to allow flexibility of use and to meet patients’ needs, improved patient privacy and infection control and enhanced visibility and contact between caregivers and patients; Expanded state-of-the-art imaging facilities that are fully integrated into emergency care procedures to enable faster diagnosis, including two new X-ray units and a dedicated ED ultrasound unit; and A new disposition lounge will accommodate patients as they prepare for discharge, which makes treatment areas available for new patients quicker. In addition to being an accomplished businessman, Mr. Perelman is a generous philanthropist, contributing to the arts, education, research, and Jewish causes among other areas of interest. In fact, in 2012 he was ranked #27 in the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s ranking of America’s top donors. For Mr. Perelman, the impetus behind his financial contributions is about creating a long-lasting, extraordinary impact. Mr. Perelman’s holding company, MacAndrews & Forbes, which includes Revlon, is one of the country’s largest privately-held businesses. Mr. Perelman has been deeply involved with NYU Langone for three decades. He previously provided the Ronald O. Perelman Fund to support bio-molecular medicine at NYU School of Medicine and continues to support the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU Langone. “I am very proud of my long association with NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ronald O. Perelman. “The need for a state-of-the-art emergency center is of paramount importance to the people of the City of New York and I look forward to this facility playing a crucial role in emergency patient care.” Though the original ED remains closed at this time, in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy NYU Langone immediately established an Urgent Care Center to help address the community’s need for emergency services. Though New York City Fire Department (FDNY) 9-1-1 ambulance service has not yet returned, the Urgent Care Center’s patient volumes currently equal or exceed the ED’s previous daily patient visits, signaling that the expanded and renovated space will be critical additions. In this article Need help finding a doctor? Search all doctors or call 844-698-7243. Related Articles Man Survives Widow-Maker Heart Attack Thanks to Quick Action from NYU Langone Heart Experts With any type of heart attack, but especially a widow-maker, “time is heart muscle.” February 14, 2024 New Mom Receives Lifesaving Surgery to Remove Blood Clots in Her Lungs Lung surgery and life support were both key to saving a new mother’s life. December 20, 2023 The information entered on this page will not be used to send unsolicited email, and will not be sold to a third party. 1138442_RR00100804 Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner – Non-invasive Cardiology – Manhattan – 10hr Days Job ID: 1138442_RR00100804 Shift: 8a-6p, 4 days/week, Monday-Friday Department: Physician Assistants, Non Invasive Cardiology (H202) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Non-invasive Cardiology. 1138318_RR00100542 Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Job ID: 1138318_RR00100542 Shift: Department: Physician Assistants, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Surgery-Hepatobiliary Division (S2044) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. Dr. Shapiro specializes in managing melanoma, a type of cancer that not long ago came with a grim prognosis. But with recent treatment advances, the outlook for people with melanoma is now drastically improved. Dr. Shapiro is confident that this leap forward in melanoma care is a pattern that will soon be seen in other forms of cancer. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Shapiro’s Profile About Perlmutter Cancer Center Our Approach to Melanoma Our Approach to Breast Cancer Our Cancer Screening Programs Search Our Clinical Trials Phil and Paul Malenczak have a lot in common, and when they were both diagnosed with prostate cancer, they sought a center with a full range of advanced treatment options. Now they have one more thing in common: they’re both cancer survivors. Our Approach to Prostate Cancer Search Clinical Trials Dr. Ahn’s approach is to attack cancer before it presents itself. Diet, genetics, and the environment: These all have a role in causing cancer. She’s looking into specific bacteria in the microbiome related to the subsequent development of cancer. Dr. Ahn is discovering how we can provide tailored nutritional guidelines based on a person’s genetic, hormonal, or biological makeup. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Ahn’s Profile Research at Perlmutter Cancer Center Attend a Free Health Lecture Dr. Bar-Sagi is more enthusiastic than ever that current scientific research will lead to a cure for cancer. Early in her career, the scientific community didn’t even know that genes were involved in causing cancer. Now, thousands of genes have been identified, and patients are seeing more treatment success than ever before. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. Our Research Partnership with Technion Institute , is renowned for his skills in pediatric neurosurgery, which is not surprising, given his childhood fascination with the brain. Today, he is not only called on to perform the most complex pediatric brain procedures, but he connects with patients and families in what is often a lifetime connection. Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff Dr. Arena doesn’t want to know if we can make cancer go away. His question is, “how soon?” He envisions a time when treatment will not focus on surgery or chemotherapy but on therapies that unleash the body’s immune system to do the work—therapies that are just gaining traction today. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Arena’s Profile About Arena Oncology on Long Island Inspired by his father’s work ethic and aspiration of becoming a physician himself, is chair of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery at NYU Langone and the co-director of the at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. A renowned heart surgeon, he performs complex surgeries on hearts as small as a walnut. Dr. Ralph S. Mosca A self-proclaimed “math geek” growing up, , was drawn to medicine to apply his talents to help people. Today, as an ear, nose, and throat surgeon, he’s adept at identifying the different needs of families, which has helped him provide thoughtful care for the children he treats. Dr. Scott Rickert , had a passion for taking things apart and reassembling them. Now as a surgeon, he uses his ability to fix things in a more meaningful way by performing challenging surgical procedures. Dr. Jason Fisher After losing both of her grandparents to cancer, Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD , pursued a career in medicine to help make a difference. Following her passion for childhood leukemia, she now leads the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology at the Dr. Elizabeth Raetz Growing up, Mary Pat Gallagher, MD , developed a love of science, which ultimately led her to a medical career as the director of NYU Langone’s . Dr. Gallagher knows that diabetes treatment can be disruptive for children and is passionate about educating not just families, but everyone who is part of a child’s life. Playing on a basketball team as a child gave Mikhail Kazachkov, MD , an understanding of teamwork. Now a renowned pediatric pulmonologist, he reinforces the value of collaboration with his multidisciplinary team, which treats conditions ranging from the most complex, chronic conditions to more common breathing issues. Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov February 18, 2015 NYU Langone and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to Forge Groundbreaking Partnership in Cancer Research Cancer Research Funded by Major Gift from Philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter I n a groundbreaking step forward to advance global collaboration in the fight against cancer, two of the world’s preeminent academic and research institutions NYU Langone Medical Center and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology formally announced a $9 million gift from philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter that will fund two major, joint research endeavors with potentially far-reaching impact in advancing cancer research. The joint program is positioned to attract additional, world-class support from institutions and individuals who are dedicated to eradicating cancer through focused and efficient research. The first $3 million of the grant will finance six cancer-focused research projects that will be conducted by teams spearheaded by co-investigators from both NYU Langone and the Technion. The remaining $6 million will be used to establish a state-of-the-art research facility on Technion’s campus in Israel that will support these and other research projects and which will have a principal focus on the emerging field of cancer metabolomics. NYU Langone is a world-renowned leader in the investigation and treatment of cancer. The Technion is one of Israel’s leading academic and research centers and a top-ranked science and technology global research university. “NYU Langone and the Technion have a shared, longstanding commitment to advancing cancer research,” said , senior vice president and vice dean for science at NYU Langone, chief science officer at NYU School of Medicine, and a principal architect of the NYU Langone-Technion partnership. “We are now at a great moment in our institutions’ illustrious histories, a point from which we can jointly leverage the talent and creativity of our researchers toward accelerating breakthroughs. The foresight and the generosity of the Perlmutters, particularly at this time of financial challenge in funding for basic research, will have tremendous impact.” “Bringing together the unique expertise of researchers from both NYU and the Technion will hopefully enable us to overcome some of the most difficult challenges in treating cancer patients,” said Technion Distinguished Professor Aaron Ciechanover, MD, D.Sc., the 2004 Nobel Prize Laureate in Chemistry, and Distinguished Research Professor and head of the David and Janet Polak Cancer and Vascular Biology Research Center at the Technion Faculty of Medicine. Internationally Renowned Researchers to Lead the Charge The latest gift from the Perlmutters coincides with two new appointments at NYU Langone and the Technion that will be integral to the partnership. Renowned cancer biologist Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD , an expert in the field of cell signal transduction, recently joined the NYU Langone faculty as director of the , and Eyal Gottlieb, PhD, a world leader in cancer metabolism, has been recruited to lead the new research facility at the Technion funded by the Perlmutter gift and spearhead joint efforts in cancer metabolomics. Dr. Neel will work closely with Dr. Ciechanover to lead the collaborative cancer research effort between the two institutions. In addition, Dr. Neel will oversee at NYU Langone the building of world-class translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics/targeted therapies and epigenetics, imaging, as well as expanded programs in clinical care, community outreach, and supportive oncology. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Dr. Neel served as Director of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Cancer Center, a position he held since 2007. Dr. Gottlieb currently serves as director of the Cancer Metabolism Research Unit at the Cancer Research UK, Beatson Institute in Glasgow, Scotland. His work principally focuses on cancer metabolism and metabolomics, combining analytical chemistry with basic cancer research to explore metabolic adaptations and vulnerabilities of cancer and with it, new potential clinical approaches for cancer treatment. Champions in the Fight Against Cancer The gift to foster the NYU Langone-Technion partnership continues the efforts of the Perlmutters to champion projects in the fight against cancer. In January 2014, they made an extraordinary gift in excess of $50 million to advance cancer research and treatment at NYU Langone. As part of that gift, NYU Langone renamed the NYU Cancer Institute a National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone. The Perlmutters both serve as members of the Board of Trustees at NYU Langone. The latest gift also recognizes the Perlmutters’ commitment to wed Israel’s strengths as a global leader in research and technological innovation with other institutions and endeavors. They note that Israeli institutions like the Technion spearhead many of the world’s top advances in medicine, science, and technology with a proven record in the development of effective cancer treatments, and that it was important to them to further these efforts through partnerships like the newly established one with NYU Langone. “Ike and I have long sought for ways to link the state of the art scientific and research advances being made in Israel with our deep commitment to NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ms. Perlmutter in announcing the new gift. “The partnership between the Technion and NYU Langone allows us to launch a focused cancer research and treatment approach. We are confident that this collaborative effort, which avoids duplication of research initiatives and creates efficiencies among marquee donors and researchers, will lead to dramatic results in the fight against this terrible disease.” Cancer Metabolomics—A Roadmap to Breakthroughs in Diagnosis and Treatment Cancer metabolomics will be the principal focus of the research lab that will be established at the Technion with the Perlmutter gift. Metabolomics is the comprehensive study of chemical processes in cells such as the breaking down of sugars and fats. These processes are both affected by, and can influence, a variety of human diseases including cancer. Because of the significant differences in the chemical processes that occur in cancer cells in comparison to normal healthy cells, metabolomics is becoming ever more important in cancer research. Developing a comprehensive understanding of these chemical processes through metabolomics is critical both for the early detection and diagnosis of cancer as well as for developing innovative treatments. Novel imaging approaches, early detection blood tests, and new targeted drugs to fight cancer would all be facilitated with a deep and comprehensive understanding of cancer metabolomics. These types of studies integrate biology, chemistry, mathematics, and computer science, making it an ideal focal point for collaboration between a science and medical institution like NYU Langone and a technological and academic powerhouse like the Technion. First Phase of Project Launched Collaborative efforts between NYU Langone and the Technion are already underway. Under the auspices of the initial $3 million grant, a request for proposals (RFP) for cancer-focused projects was recently disseminated among key researchers at both NYU Langone and Technion. A major stipulation in the RFP is that all submitted projects have co-principal investigators representing both institutions. The RFP request follows a highly successful two-day joint workshop, held in New York City in fall 2014, at which many researchers from both NYU Langone and Technion presented updates on their work and learned of ways in which they could collaborate. Approximately six research projects will be selected with each receiving a two-year, $500,000 grant $250,000 to fund research at each site. Funding for selected projects will commence in late spring 2015. About The Technion-Israel Institute for Technology The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology is a major source of the innovation and brainpower that drives the Israeli economy, and a key to Israel’s renowned as the world’s “Start-Up Nation.” Its three Nobel Prize winners exemplify academic excellence. Technion people, ideas, and inventions make immeasurable contributions to the world including life-saving medicine, sustainable energy, computer science, water conservation, and nanotechnology. The Joan and Irwin Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a vital component of Cornell Tech, and a model for graduate applied science education that is expected to transform New York City’s economy. American Technion Society (ATS) donors provide critical support for the Technion—more than $2 billion since its inception in 1940. Based in New York City, the ATS and its network of chapters across the U.S. provide funds for scholarships, fellowships, faculty recruitment and chairs, research, buildings, laboratories, classrooms and dormitories, and more. Jim Mandler Phone: 212-404-3525 jim.mandler@nyumc.org Lisa Greiner Phone: 212-404-3532 lisa.greiner@nyumc.org Perlmutter Cancer Center Appoints Renowned Clinician–Scientist to Lead Its Transplantation & Cellular Therapy Center on Long Island Dr. Anne S. Renteria will work to build out its blood cancer programs. December 20, 2024 NYU Langone Thoracic Surgeons Using Minimally Invasive Robotic Surgery to Shorten Hospital Stays & Improve Patient Outcomes for Lung Cancer Such methods allow patients to go home 24 hours after their procedure. December 18, 2024 A rare genetic condition brought Chanelle A. Coble-Sadaphal, MD , and her twin sister to the hospital as children, but today she draws on the experience as she treats adolescents facing a host of complex problems. Dr. Coble-Sadaphal lends her expertise to her patients in their communities and their schools—always in the place they feel most comfortable. Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal sagar 2024-12-16T14:34:45+00:00 Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. Department About This author has not yet filled in any details. So far gayathri has created 0 blog entries. Joseph J. Greco, MD Joseph J. Greco, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations at , where he oversees the strategic direction and daily operations of the hospital and , as well as directing the delivery of excellence in clinical care and patient safety. Dr. Greco assumed the hospital’s leadership in 2019 and skillfully guided it through the COVID-19 pandemic, one of the most challenging periods in the hospital’s 125-year history. He has over 30 years of clinical experience and previously served as the hospital’s chief medical officer. Under Dr. Greco’s stewardship, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island introduced an advanced heart failure program, offering patients the latest clinical advances, including heart-assist devices and access to a transplant program with the fastest transplant rates in the state. The hospital is also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a Comprehensive Stroke Center, among other noteworthy achievements. Dr. Greco serves as the chair of the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Department of Anesthesiology, and he is board-certified by the American Board of Anesthesiology. His experience also includes serving as the hospital’s chief patient safety officer, driving the introduction of quality and patient safety initiatives to the hospital long before they became standards in the medical community. In addition, he chaired key hospital committees, including the Quality Improvement and Advisory Committee and the Operating Room Committee. A resident of Garden City, New York, Dr. Greco earned his medical degree at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. His postgraduate training included an internship in internal medicine and a residency in anesthesiology at Mount Sinai, where he served as chief resident for anesthesiology. He is a member of the American Society of Anesthesia, the New York Society of Anesthesiologists, and the American Society of Professionals in Patient Safety. Annette Johnson, executive vice president and vice dean, general counsel, has served as general counsel of NYU Langone Health and its entities since 2001, when she founded the Office of General Counsel for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU School of Medicine, after having served in the NYU Office of General Counsel from 1981. She was appointed senior vice president and general counsel for NYU Langone Health in 2007. Having grown the Office of General Counsel to its current staff of 20 in-house attorneys—each with deep expertise in their fields of practice—plus support staff in Manhattan and on Long Island, Ms. Johnson oversees all legal matters concerning NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all subsidiary entities of these corporations, including the off-shore insurance captive corporations. Under her direction, the Office of General Counsel provides legal leadership and services in corporate governance, corporate finance and bond issuance, mergers—including recent mergers with NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island; affiliation with Long Island Community Hospital; acquisitions and joint ventures; hospital regulatory, medical staff, and patient matters; all faculty and physician employment contracts; counsel and litigation management for employment and labor matters; research conduct and federal contracting and response to investigations, technology transfer licensing, and management; and management and direction of all malpractice claims and lawsuits brought against the hospital system and insured physicians. Ms. Johnson directs and oversees over 40 outside law firms that provide legal services to NYU Langone Health, including active management of high-value affirmative litigations. Under Ms. Johnson’s direction, the Office of General Counsel is highly efficient and continues to deliver excellent legal services with outside counsel expense below national benchmark for comparable corporations. In addition to her responsibilities in legal matters, Ms. Johnson has responsibility for NYU Langone’s Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (IACERM), which she founded and has led since 1998. With a staff of 33 audit and compliance professionals, under the direction of the vice president for IACERM reporting to her, Ms. Johnson oversees administration of NYU Langone’s conflicts of interest management, research integrity and research misconduct matters, HIPAA and privacy compliance, professional and hospital billing compliance, and internal audit functions and reporting. Prior to attending law school, Ms. Johnson earned a PhD in English at the University of Massachusetts. She received her JD summa cum laude from the University of Toledo, where she was valedictorian. After graduating from law school, she held a faculty and administrative appointment at the University of Toledo College of Law and served in the New York State Office of the Attorney General prior to joining NYU. She has published articles in the area of faculty tenure and school financing reform. Fritz François, MD, executive vice president and vice dean, chief of hospital operations, oversees all patient care activity on the Manhattan campus, ensuring the highest levels of quality and safety. Dr. François previously served as chief medical officer and professor in the Division of Gastroenterology in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone Health. In this role, he led transformative efforts around value-based management and guided the 2018 opening of . Dr. François also served as a frontline architect of key operational initiatives to standardize quality patient care, proactively develop patient safety risk reduction strategies, and improve patient satisfaction. Throughout his career, Dr. François has been recognized for his research and efforts to foster diversity and reduce health disparities. His work has been funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the American College of Gastroenterology, among others. His many honors include five American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Diversity Minority Research awards; the Academic Champion of Health Award from the National Medical Fellowships for his work with underserved minority students; the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Frauenthal Award for service to human health following earthquake relief efforts he led in Haiti; and the 2011 NYU Martin Luther King Jr. Humanitarian Award for embodying and exemplifying the characteristics promoted by Dr. King. Dr. François currently serves as a collaborator and advisor for the NYU Langone Institute of Excellence in Health Equity and remains committed to mentoring individuals across the professional landscape. Dr. François completed his medical degree at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, where he stayed for internship, residency, chief residency, and gastroenterology fellowship. He has over 70 peer-reviewed publications, book chapters, and presentations in his research areas of interest, which include esophageal disease, H. pylori , hepatitis C, and colorectal cancer screening in minority populations. Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD, was named senior vice president and vice dean for science, chief scientific officer of NYU Langone Health in summer 2011, and executive vice president in 2019. In these roles, she serves as the principal strategist to advance the NYU Langone’s research enterprise. Additionally, Dr. Bar-Sagi oversees all clinical, translational, and basic science operations, graduate education, and administration for the research enterprise through the Office of Science and Research. She also manages research IT, space allocation, finance, and research compliance. Dr. Bar-Sagi is a world renowned cancer biologist whose research has had a major impact on the understanding of mechanisms that control tumor initiation and progression. The focus of her work is the Ras oncogene and its role in the regulation of cell proliferation and survival, tumor immunity, cellular metabolism, and cell-to-cell signaling. Dr. Bar-Sagi is the Saul J. Farber Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology and a professor in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her continued excellence in scientific research. Prior to joining NYU Langone in 2006 as chair of the Department of Biochemistry, she headed the Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology at the State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook. Dr. Bar-Sagi earned her undergraduate and master’s degrees from Bar-Ilan University, Israel, and her PhD from SUNY at Stony Brook. Arun Chopra, MD , had a fairly easy time in school as a child, but after he became a doctor, he realized the importance of going beyond the status quo. As director of pediatric critical care, he treats critically ill children who have complex conditions with a sense of calm to help families through a challenging time. Dr. Arun Chopra The Energy Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s plan to become a resilient and reliable medical center and a leader in by reducing our contribution to global warming as a result of clean and efficient energy use. With a new combined heat and power (CHP) plant, emergency generators, and boilers in the building, the Energy Building affords NYU Langone the capacity to be completely self-sufficient in the event of a utility power interruption, with two different sources of backup power for our critical areas. The CHP plant is also environmentally friendly. Since kicking off our current energy conservation program in 2007, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 22 percent across all of our owned properties. This new plant is bolstering our efforts, enabling us to achieve our goal of reducing emissions by 50 percent. Operating the CHP plant alone will have the same environmental impact as taking more than 4,600 cars off the road. Our Primary Electric Service The 71,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art energy facility provides the primary electric service to the campus, accommodates the anticipated growth in energy consumption, and employs CHP generation technology to produce energy that is cleaner and more economical. At its heart is an 11-megawatt cogeneration, combined cycle plant. It includes a dual-fuel fired turbine (using natural gas normally, and diesel oil as a backup) that produces 8 megawatts of power. The waste heat from the gas turbine then enters a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), which produces about 130,000 pounds of steam per hour. This steam powers a steam turbine generator, creating an additional 3 megawatts of power. Next, the steam is distributed throughout the main campus to provide heat, hot water, sterilization, and humidification. Finally, the steam is condensed back into water and pumped into the HRSG to help create more steam. This cycle substantially reduces the need to purchase electrical power from outside sources. In addition, two back-up boilers supply steam to the campus when the gas turbine/HRSG/steam turbine system is shut down for maintenance, thus ensuring the main campus always has steam. The Energy Building also houses a 7.5-megawatt diesel-fired emergency power plant if the main system fails for any reason. The Energy Building is strategically positioned just south of the and adjacent to , hugging the FDR Service Road at the eastern boundary of the main campus. The building also houses the campus’ Department of Radiation Oncology , in a configuration that enables seamless connections between Tisch Hospital and the Kimmel Pavilion, both of which use the new radiation oncology facility. Elizabeth Golden, executive vice president for communications, marketing, government and community affairs, is responsible for advancing NYU Langone Health’s reputation and unique brand identity as one of the nation’s premier centers for excellence in clinical care, biomedical research, and medical education. As leader of the Office of Government and Community Affairs, Ms. Golden oversees engagement with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities in which NYU Langone’s patients reside. In this role, she leads the institution’s engagement with its diverse audiences of patients, staff, and key stakeholders. This includes development and implementation of NYU Langone’s public affairs, digital engagement, internal communications, government and community affairs, and traditional and digital marketing and advertising strategies. Throughout her career, executives and senior leaders have relied on Ms. Golden’s counsel on critical communications and public affairs issues. She specializes in embedding storytelling to boost organizational thought leadership, employee engagement, and cultural transformation. A member of Fast Company’s Impact Council and named by Reuters as one of 20 Trailblazing Women in Healthcare in 2024, Ms. Golden brings decades of experience in developing holistic corporate affairs strategies in highly regulated environments, including pharmaceuticals, finance, and government. Prior to joining NYU Langone, she spent 17 years at Pfizer Inc., where she led several transformative corporate affairs initiatives involving corporate reputation, external and internal communications, and public affairs. Most recently, Ms. Golden was the vice president and chief of staff for Pfizer’s chief commercial officer and president of the global biopharmaceuticals business, where she served as a member of the leadership team. Before joining Pfizer, she worked in communications and external affairs at Columbia University, in marketing and communications at Citigroup, and as press secretary to Senator John Breaux. Ms. Golden holds a bachelor’s degree in law and society, with a minor in communications, from American University. She also holds a master’s degree in public administration specializing in financial management from NYU’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. Dr. Andrew W. Brotman, executive vice president and vice dean for clinical affairs and strategy, chief clinical officer, is responsible for physician/hospital programmatic initiatives and ambulatory care. In these roles, he also leads the Faculty Group Practice, manages our partnerships with affiliate hospitals, including those in the NYC Health + Hospitals, and manages our faculty office complex. He is the executive sponsor of the oncology service line, and played a significant role in the opening and ongoing operation of the Clinical Cancer Center at 34th Street, now part of the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center. He also leads the cardiac and vascular service lines and other strategic clinical areas. Dr. Brotman is also a professor of psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He has been at NYU Langone Health since 1999 and was instrumental in leading the development of an infrastructure to manage the clinical enterprise over a period of significant growth. Prior to NYU Langone, Dr. Brotman was senior vice president and chief operating officer for physician practice management and network development for CareGroup in Boston. In that position, he was responsible for the operations of employed physician practices, and was one of the founders of the managed care organization known as the Physicians Services Network. Dr. Brotman was also the chief of psychiatry at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and prior to that was chief of psychiatry at the Deaconess Hospital, where he also served as president of the medical staff and later as medical director of Pathway Health, a four-hospital network. He served as interim president of Mt. Auburn Hospital in 1998. Dr. Brotman completed his psychiatry residency at Massachusetts General Hospital beginning in 1981 and had increasing levels of responsibility at that institution until 1991, when he went to Deaconess. He spent much of his time at Massachusetts General in a public-private partnership with the state, serving as director of public psychiatry for Massachusetts General and later as clinical director of the Eric Lindemann Mental Health Center. He is on the editorial boards of several journals and has more than 80 publications to his credit. Dr. Steven B. Abramson, executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, chief academic officer, is the chair of the Department of Medicine and a professor of medicine and pathology. As vice dean, Dr. Abramson oversees faculty affairs, including appointments, promotions, and tenure issues. Additionally, his office oversees undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate education, continuing medical education, precollege programs, the admissions process, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s accreditation. Dr. Abramson previously served in the Dean’s Office as associate dean for curriculum, vice dean for