and policy andplanning functions. Developing a volunteerprogram involves conducting( 1 ) a detailedsurvey of potential sources of communityvolunteers, (2) an administrative audit to assessthe need for volunteer services, (3) a cost benefit analysis of the financial consequencesof initiating such a program, and (4) a pilotprogram to evaluate design effectiveness.Difficulties that can undermine a volunteerprogram include (1) finding adequatevolunteers, (2) defining the hospital auxiliary'srelationship to the volunteer program, (3)contending with staff members' pastexperiences with and attitudes towardvolunteers, and (4) giving inadequate attentionto the costs of initiating and maintaining aviable volunteer program.3 tables,22 references. (HE9700069)35The Community Health Advisor/Worker054Effective Hospice Volunteers:Demographic and PersonalityCharacteristics.Form:Journal article.Authors:Caldwell, J.; Scott, J.P.Source: American Journal of Hospice andPalliative Care.ll(2):40 45, March April1994.Abstract: The authors examined thedemographic and personality characteristics ofhighly effective hospice volunteers.Researchers asked directors and coordinators at50 hospice programs in Texas to identify theirmost dependable and effective volunteers.Volunteers were asked to complete a surveyquestionnaire. A total of 244 questionnaireswere distributed and 156 (64 percent) werecompleted. The instruments assesseddemographic information, degree of religiousactivity, community volunteer involvement,previous death experiences, and Myers BriggsType Indicator. Researchers used anonparametric binomial goodness of fit test tocompare volunteers' personality types tonormative distributions. The mean age of theparticipants was 55.6 years, with ages rangingfrom 20 to 86 years. The sample waspredominantly female (87 percent). The ethnicdistribution of the sample was 95.3 percentwhite, 2.7 percent black, 1.3 percent Hispanic,and 0.7 percent other. Almost three fourths ofthe participants were married, 18.3 percentwere widowed, 5.9 percent were divorced, and3.3 percent were single. They had a meaneducational level of 14.6 years, with aneducational range of 8 to 20 years. Nearly halfof the participants were retired, 22.2 percentwere employed in the home, 19.0 percent wereemployed full time, and 11.1 percent wereemployed part time.Overall, volunteers werepredominantly white, female, and had aboveaverage incomes.Results from the binomialgoodness of fit test indicated that theproportion of extroverted and sensing typesaccording to the Myers Briggs Type Indicatorwas significantly higher in the present studythan might be expected in the generalpopulation. The knowledge derived from thisstudy may help coordinators to more effectivelyreach, train, and retain volunteers who canmake a significant difference in hospice care.3 tables, 20 references. (HE9700317)055Factors in Achieving a Stable Group ofVolunteers in a Mental Health Agency.Form:Journal article.Authors:Furedy, R.L.; Kirschner, C.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(3): 167 168, March 1975.Abstract: The authors discuss the factors thatconsistently influence the length of time avolunteer stays with an agency. Four factors areparticularly important:(1) rites of passage,(2) life experience and task assignment,(3) supervision, and (4) group cohesiveness.Regarding rites of passage, the screening,orientation, and ceremony surrounding anindividual's entrance into the volunteer groupare vital.Volunteers should feel that theirabilities are appreciated. During orientation,the volunteer sees what the job is really like,and decides whether or not to continue to workwith and be identified with the agency. On theissue of life experience and task assignment,volunteers' own life experiences are thefoundation for their beginning efforts to helpclients. These experiences may or may not havepositively prepared the individuals for thespecific volunteer requirements. Volunteersarrive with a variety of ambitions, interests, andpotential abilities, all of which must be closelymatched to the specific task to be performed in36Volunteers as Community Health Advisorsorder for the volunteers to be satisfied andsuccessful.Supervision is one of the best andmost important ways for the agency to give tothe giver. A supervisor has a great deal to teachand must help the volunteer understand theclient's behavior, feelings, and perceptions.Finally, a volunteer's identification with, andsense of belonging to, the volunteer group isnecessary for forming a cohesive bond with theagency. The wish for social contact is often amajor but unspoken motivation forvolunteering. Other important actions tomaintain volunteers include electing volunteersto the agency's board of directors and ensuringthat volunteers are full partners in every aspectof the agency's operations. (HE9700327)consistent monitoring of personal progress;(3) avoiding resistance to changing behavior;and (4) approaching behavior changesystematically.Strategies for self preservationemphasize (1) physical self care (i.e., fitness,relaxation, nutrition, and habit control); (2)psychological/emotional self care strategies(i.e., personal support system, support group,recreation and play strategies, planning, andgoal and limit setting); (3) strategies forreaching out; and (4) spiritual self carestrategies. As hospice caregivers recognize theinterrelatedness of caring for others and oneself,the services provided patients and families willbe enriched.3 figures, 17 references.(HE9700076)056Hospice Caregiving:Strategies to AvoidBurnout and Maintain Self Preservation.057Patient Care Training Program forVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Author:Patrick, P.Source: Hospice Journal. 3(2 3):223 253,Summer Fall 1987.Form:Journal article.Authors: Walker, P.W.; Ross, M.J.Source:Journal of Nursing Staff Development.5(4): 180 182, July August 1989.Abstract: A psychologist describes methodsfor hospice caregivers to assess their level ofstress and burnout, identifies aspects ofpersonal growth and change influencing self care, and outlines key self care strategies thatsupport self preservation. The healthprofessional offers two methods for gaining amore individualized understanding of currentmanifestations of burnout and negative stress:(1) the Social/Interpersonal, Emotional,Physical, Spiritual Assessment Inventory and(2) the Support System Grid. Promoting self preservation requires (1) committing to thedevelopment of a self care plan; (2) adopting aproactive preventive approach that includesongoing self assessment activities,implementation of self care strategies beforesigns or symptoms of burnout appear, andAbstract: Two nurses describe the planningand implementation of a training program forlay community volunteers to assist with basichealth care at the Eilson Air Force Base nearFairbanks, Alaska.In planning the program,developers (1) assessed precisely what avolunteer would need to know and do in each ofthe clinical areas; (2) informally interviewed thesupervisors of each patient care area for theirideas concerning what specific knowledge andskills volunteers should have; (3) assessed thepossible skills, experience, and level ofeducation of the average potential volunteer;and (4) consulted a number of sources for asimple step by step approach to adult educationprograms. The week long orientation courseused guest speakers, movies, slides, overheadtransparencies, videos, role playing, and actual37The Community Health Advisor/Workerhands on experience to supplement lecture.Process evaluation was an important tool in thedaily schedule. As necessary, they changedpresentations to meet the levels ofunderstanding. The course concluded with 4hours of supervised clinical time in the patientcare area of the volunteer's choice. At the endof the course, the volunteers completed anevaluation questionnaire. The program wasmodified to incorporate the volunteers'suggestions. After the volunteers had workedfor 5 weeks, their supervisors completed anevaluation of the competency of these trainedvolunteers and rated them highly in both skillsand knowledge. The authors conclude thatqualified and adequately trained volunteerscould offer great potential service in patientcare areas that are understaffed with nursingpersonnel.1 figure, 4 references.(HE9700051)058Planning: The Key to a SuccessfulVolunteer Program.Form:Journal article.Author: Trocchio, J.Source:Journal: American Health CareAssociation.l(l):72 73, July 1975.Abstract: Volunteer programs often collapsebecause of poor planning. Adequate planningcan produce a vital, creative volunteerprogram that benefits nursing home residents,the facility administration and staff, and thecommunity in which the facility is located.Four steps must be considered in programplanning:(1) assessment of the need forvolunteers, (2) identification of communityresources, (3) development of programobjectives, and (4) definition of policies. Stepone requires an identification of needs that areappropriate for volunteers to meet.Residentsand staff should be involved in this earlyplanning stage.Step 2 is exploration of thevolunteer market. Every facility will havedifferent resources available. The staff may beinterested in helping with parties and activitiesoutside their working hours. Nursing homeresidents themselves are an excellent volunteerresource, and their visitors also may be pleasedto have interesting projects in which to beinvolved along with their regular visits.Step 3is the definition of program objectives, whichshould include (1) the goals of the program, (2)the number of volunteers to be recruited, (3) theexpected benefits to the operation of the facility,and (4) desired projects and activities.Step 4involves policy making. Volunteers shouldknow what to expect and what is expected ofthem.Policies should include (1) therecruitment procedure, (2) an outline of aninitial interview with prospective volunteers, (3)job descriptions for volunteers, (4) an outline ofan orientation program, (5) means to evaluatethe program and the individual volunteers, and(6) methods by which the facility can thank thevolunteers and recognize volunteerachievement. All nursing home personnelshould be involved in the formation ofvolunteer policies.If the planning is acollaborative effort among the facility'sadministration, staff, residents, and community,a successful volunteer program can beestablished, and a dynamic relationship willdevelop within the home. 2 references.(HE9700338)38Volunteers as Community Health Advisors059Rural Emergency Medical Volunteers andTheir Communities: A DemographicComparison.Form:Journal article.Author: Thompson, A.M.Source:Journal of Community Health.18(6):379 392, December 1993.Abstract:Researchers compared the personal,household, and professional characteristics ofvolunteer emergency medical service (EMS)providers in Ulster County, New York, withthose of the general population of this ruralupstate county, using data from the 1990 U.S.Census of Population and Housing. Thepurpose was (1) to evaluate the ability of EMSsquads to recruit new and retain currentmembers from their communities and (2) toascertain the level of commitment of EMSvolunteers to their squads and communities.Researchers gathered EMS volunteer attributesby a parallel survey that they administered tomembers of all nine volunteer EMS squads inthe county. Researchers supplemented thequestionnaire with in depth interviews withseveral of the active volunteer EMS providers,as well as with direct observation of the fullrange of activities in which these EMS squadsengage.Statistically significant deviationsbetween the two sample populations included(1) age distribution, (2) maximum educationalattainment, (3) size of household, (4) years inresidence, (5) type of employer, (6) employingindustry, (7) occupation, (8) household income,and (9) commuting distance from work.Differences for (1) race, (2) sex, (3) maritalstatus, (4) household site, (5) home ownership,(6) housing costs, and (7) in countyemployment were not statistically significant.The author believes that the research provided areasonably detailed and useful portrait of EMSvolunteers by comparing several of theirsocioeconomic attributes with those of theirfellow citizens. The data provided substantialevidence of the volunteers' loyalty andcommitment to the EMS, indicated by astatistically significant positive correlationbetween the volunteers' age and length ofservice. Of polled EMS volunteers, 45 percentclaimed they never considered resigning and anadditional 27 percent considered resigning onlyrarely. The dominant causes cited forconsidering resigning were personal timeconstraints and internal dissatisfaction with theEMS squad itself. Fifty four percent of EMSvolunteers had relatives who also volunteer inthis capacity and 30 percent state that they weremarried to, or otherwise involved with, anotherEMS volunteer. 4 tables, 14 references.(HE9700056)060Training Imperatives for VolunteersCaring for High Risk, VulnerablePopulations.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hutchison, R.R.; Quartaro, E.G.Source:Journal of Community HealthNursing.10(2): 87 96, 1993."Abstract: Educators associated with theHomeless Shelter Program, a network ofchurches and synagogues in a northeastsuburban area, identify the caring needs of bothhigh risk, vulnerable populations and of thevolunteers serving them and present a trainingprogram as a model applicable to the training ofthose volunteers. The program, which providestwo meals daily, sleeping accommodations, andevening activity programs, is dependent onvolunteer services. The needs of high risk,vulnerable populations include ( 1 ) survivalrequirements such as food, clothing, andshelter; (2) planning for adequate andappropriate health care; (3) understanding and39The Community Health Advisor/Workersupportive interactions with professional andvolunteer personnel; and (4) strengthenedfamily ties, where they exist. Following athree step assessment of volunteer needs and anextensive literature review, the educatorsdeveloped a three session curriculum fortraining volunteers based on theinterdisciplinary foundation of nursing andsocial work substantive areas. Programoutcomes for volunteers included an enhancedability to relate to persons in high risk,vulnerable populations with less anxiety,greater ease, and less distancing from theperson served. The researchers concluded thatusing a corp of well trained volunteers freesprofessional staff to perform high level servicesin a program. 20 references. (HE9700052)061Training of Telephone Crisis InterventionVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors: Dixon, M.C.; Burns, J.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.3 (2): 145 150, June 1975.Abstract: The authors review seven articlesthat address selection and training of telephonecrisis intervention volunteers. Brockopp andYasser discuss volunteer training for telephonetherapy, using the Erie County SuicidePrevention Center as a model. They emphasizeselection, phased training, supervision andfeedback on individual performance, andfollow up to the training program. Reismandescribes the essential components of a trainingprogram:role clarification, phased training thatprogresses into all areas a volunteer mayencounter, and unified criteria used in theselection of the volunteers to strengthenindividual weaknesses. He stresses thatunrealistic expectations should not be createdfor volunteer trainees. Lamb's paper on errorsand fallacies found in telephone therapy pointsout that telephone therapists must not believethey are perfect; nor should they enter into theirwork with an inflexible approach to problemsolving. The goal of training should be theprevention of errors.Heilig, Farberow, Litman,and Shneidman discuss the selection andtraining of nonprofessionals for telephonetherapy in suicide prevention. They stress threeprimary training areas:adequate coverage oftheories relevant to telephone therapy andsuicide prevention, practice in specific methodsfor handling calls, and example of actual callsand case histories. An apprenticeship aftertraining should address and try to resolvespecific weaknesses for each volunteer.Farberow, in discussing training at the LosAngeles Suicide Prevention Center, emphasizesthe importance of removing existing feelingsabout the social stigma of emotional and mentalhealth problems from the volunteers duringtraining. Fowler and McGee present a scale toassess the effectiveness of volunteer telephoneworkers. Based on their review, the authors ofthe articles conclude that there is nosystematically developed rationale for either theselection or the training of crisis call volunteers.The authors suggest that training fornonprofessional or lay volunteers be based onthe concepts of crisis intervention and on sociallearning principles.15 references.(HE9700334)062Training Volunteers as AlcoholismTreatment Counselors.Form:Journal article.Author: Manohar, V.Source:Quarterly Journal of Studies onAlcohol.34(3):869 877, September 1973.Abstract: This article describes a trainingprogram developed by the Harvard Medical40Volunteers as Community Health AdvisorsSchool to maximize the services delivered bythe Alcoholism Division at the Boston CityHospital. The Alcoholism Division operatedtwo evening outpatient clinics and a daytimedrop in system, and offered training,consultation, and research. The 14 monthtraining program, which was open to membersof the community, students, and professionals,aimed to prepare the trainees to provide directcare in an individual or group setting, to makeeffective referrals, and to coordinate care whileworking with professionals and othercommunity agencies. The content of the coursevaried according to the needs and interests ofeach particular training group. Classroom workwas supported by mandatory andsupplementary reading. Trainees also visitedthe clinic to observe treatment from a patient'sperspective. After completing the coursework,trainees spent 4 hours a week in interactionwith patients, attend staff meetings, and thecontinuing education program. The presence ofa large, qualified group of volunteer counselorshelped the clinic to attract and treat morepatients.8 references. (HE9700341)063Understanding Volunteer Peer HealthEducators' Motivations: Applying SocialLearning Theory.Form:Journal article.Authors:Klein, N.A.; Sondag, K.A.;Drolet, J.C.Source:Journal of American College Health.43(3): 126 130, November 1994.Abstract: Researchers conducted five focusgroup interviews with students who were peereducators at a midwestera university todetermine what factors motivate students tovolunteer for a peer health education program.Interview questions explored students' lifeexperiences, their expectations of the peereducation program, and their motivations.Constructs from social learning theory wereused to categorize and contribute tounderstanding of the responses. Manyparticipants specified experiences with familymembers or friends, such as alcoholism or otherillnesses, that influenced their decisions. Thepeer health educators' motivations forvolunteering were altruistic, such as wanting tohelp others; egoistic, such as wanting jobtraining; or related to self efficacy beliefs, suchas satisfying a personal need for healtheducation. Volunteers were influenced to joinby their life experiences, a belief in theeffectiveness of peer health educationprograms, and positive reinforcement to join.26 references. (HE9500174)064Use of Volunteers in a Community MentalHealth Center Emergency and ReceptionServices: A Comparative Study ofProfessional and Lay TelephoneCounseling.Form:Journal article.Authors: O'Donnell, J.M.; George, K.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.13(1):3 12, Spring 1977.Abstract:Researchers tested a model ofcommunity participation in the emergency andreception service of a community mental healthcenter by comparing telephone counselingeffectiveness of volunteers to the effectivenessof the center's professional staff. Afterrecruitment and a selective screening process,volunteers receive 15 hours of didactic andexperiential training in crisis theory, effectiveinterpersonal communication, and use ofcommunity resources, and 15 hours minimumof closely supervised on line experience withcallers. Ongoing refresher training is conductedfor all volunteers at approximately 6 week41The Community Health Advisor/Workerintervals. Four groups of 10 persons eachparticipated in a study of telephone counselingeffectiveness:10 community mental healthcenter professional staff (Group P), 10experienced telephone hotline volunteers with aminimum of1 year of experience per volunteer(Group EV), 10 recently trained butinexperienced volunteers (Group IV), and acontrol group (Group C) comprised of 10college sophomores having had no involvementwith, or intention to, volunteer for telephonehotline work. Researchers instructed 40 collegesophomores in role playing and randomlyassigned a typical crisis telephone problem topresent to an anonymous counselor over thetelephone.Role playing callers completed aconsumer satisfaction questionnaire providing asubjective rating of the counselor's helpfulness.All calls were recorded and replayed forobjective rating by two pairs of advancedpsychology student raters. Assessment criteriaconsisted of modified scales from the Carkhuff(1969) Scales for Assessment of InterpersonalFunctioning and additional scales.Professionals, experienced trained volunteers,and inexperienced trained volunteers scoredsignificantly higher than did untrained controlparticipants. Researchers report that carefullyselected and trained volunteers can function aseffectively as professional staff in providingsupportive and emergency telephone servicesfor distressed callers and community mentalhealth center clients.2 figures,1 table,30 references. (HE9700065)065Volunteer Stress and Burnout:Issues forAdministrators.Form:Journal article.Authors:Paradis, L.F.; Miller, B.;Runnion, V.M.Source: Hospice Journal.3(2 3):165 183,Summer Fall 1987.Abstract:In this article, two healthprofessionals identify primary stressorsexperienced by volunteers who provide directpatient care, based on information collectedthrough investigations on volunteercharacteristics at five research sites, informalchats with volunteers at state and nationalhospice meetings, and formal interviews withhospice volunteers and volunteer coordinators.To investigate sources of stress, the reseachersrandomly selected and interviewed 38volunteers (ages 18 to 65 years). Volunteerswere asked to identify stressors in theirvolunteer experience, problems related totraining, the length of time they intended to staywith the program, and their reasons for stayingor leaving. On the basis of volunteer responses,researchers grouped volunteer stress into fourareas that included(1) role ambiguity, (2)status ambiguity, (3) patients and families, and(4) stress caused by the volunteer's personalcircumstances.Researchers recommend thatvolunteer coordinators develop an interviewguide to screen community volunteers for theirability to handle sensitive issues in death anddying and to cope with grief and loss, andprovide an ongoing training program, stress reduction support groups, and evaluation ofeach training session. 30 references.(HE9700075)42The Community Health Advisor/WorkerEvaluation066Community Health Aides: How EffectiveAre They?Form:Journal article.Authors: Cauffman, J.G.; Wingert, W.A.;Friedman, D.B.; Warburton, E.A.; Hanes, B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.60(10): 1904 1909, October 1970.Abstract:This article discusses a studyconducted in the Pediatric Emergency Room(PER) of the Los Angeles County University ofSouthern California Medical Center to measurethe ability of community health aides toperform in an educational capacity related topatient care. Researchers hypothesized thatmothers instructed by community health aideswould be as likely to comply with Physicians'Upper Respiratory Infection (URI) Order Listsas would mothers who were instructed bypublic health nurses or by physicians. Projectstaff recruited and trained community healthaides to teach mothers how to care for theirchildren when they had an upper respiratoryinfection. The aides were either of AfricanAmerican or Spanish surname backgrounds,(the dominant ethnic groups attending the PER)had a high school education, and ranged in agefrom 18 to 35. Two pediatricians, two publichealth nurses, and a health educator trained theaides. Mothers were randomly assigned to theaides, to nurses, or to physicians to receiveinstruction about their children's URI. Afteridentifying a child's illness as a URI, thephysician asked the mother to follow from1 to1 1 orders on the Physicians' URI Order List.A mother was classified as having followed thePhysicians' Order List only if she followed allof the URI orders that were assigned to her atthe PER.If a mother did not perform all of theorders, she was classified as not havingfollowed the physician's orders. An analysis ofthe data indicated that there was no differencein compliance among mothers who wereinstructed by community health aides, by publichealth nurses, or by physicians. This projectdemonstrated that aides can be trained toassume important responsibilities in maternaleducation.1 table, 14 references.(HE9401371)067Comparative Effectiveness of Professionaland Paraprofessional Helpers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hattie, J.A.; Sharpley, C.F.;Rogers, H.J.Source:Psychological Bulletin.95(3):534 541, May 1984.Abstract:Researchers demonstrate theusefulness of meta analysis procedures toresolve many of the unresolved differencesbetween researchers Durlak, Nietzel, and Fisheron the relative effectiveness of professional andparaprofessional counselors. Although theauthors agree that greater use is being made ofparaprofessionals in the mental health field thanpreviously, they disagree on the value of suchuse. Using a box score analysis of 42 studies,Durlak concluded that the clinical outcomesparaprofessionals achieve are equal to, orsignificantly better than, those obtained byprofessionals.Nietzel and Fisher disagreed,arguing that in many instances the researchdesign used was inappropriate to theeffectiveness issue, the definition of terms wassuspect, and the design and power of many of43The Community Health Advisor/Workerthe 42 studies were questionable.Effect sizesbased on 154 comparisons from 39 studiesindicated that clients who seek help fromparaprofessionals are more likely to achieveresolution of their problem than those whoconsult professionals. The more experiencedthe paraprofessionals, the greater theireffectiveness as compared with professionals.However, the more recent the training of theprofessional, the greater the effect. Theresearchers' conclusion is supportive of, but isnot as strong as, Durlak's conclusion thatparaprofessional achieve clinical outcomesequal to, or significantly better than, thoseobtained by professionals. According to theauthors, evidence demonstrates thatparaprofessionals must be considered effectiveadditions to the helping services.1 table,25 references. (HE9700084)068Developing a Tool to Record Changes:Impact of EFNEP on Some Nutrition related Practices.Form:Journal article.Authors: Murphy, M.J.; Smiciklas Wright, H.;Heasley, D.K.; Hamilton, L.W.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation.76(6):570 574, June 1980.Abstract:Researchers describe a nutritionevaluation instrument designed to measure foodstorage and safety, kitchen sanitation, and foodmoney management by families participating inthe Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP), The goal of the EFNEP,administered by the Cooperative ExtensionService of the U.S. Department of Agriculture,is to improve the diets and nutritional practicesof disadvantaged, hard to reach familiesthrough individualized, home based instruction.The evaluation was intended (1) to collectuniform data to standardize program evaluation,(2) to provide a diagnostic tool to help assess ahomemaker's progress and to determineappropriate educational strategies for informingthe homemaker, and (3) to serve as a progressrecord to help the nutrition aides more easilyidentify any success and improvement inworking with families. Pennsylvania nutritionaides tested the evaluation instrument todetermine whether a correlation exists betweenthe length of time a homemaker participates inthe EFNEP and her performance with regard tonutrition related practices. Variable controlsincluded (1) the length of time a homemakerhad participated in the EFNEP, (2) thehomemaker's place of residence, (3) thehomemaker's education level, (4) familyincome, and (5) number of children in thehome. The instrument revealed a trend towardimproved performance but not a strong,statistically significant correlation. Aides'comments reflected compassion, practicality,sharp insight, and a strong loyalty to theirprogram families. Researchers believe that thisdemonstrates, in part, insufficient emphasis onnutrition related practices and suggest that moretraining and teaching materials addressingnutrition practices are needed. 4 tables,6 references. (HE9700067)069Economic Evaluation of Home VisitingPrograms.Form:Journal article.Author: Barnett,W.S.Source:Future of Children.3(3):93 112,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses an economicevaluation of home visiting programs.Economic evaluation can be used to improvehome visiting policy and practice and to directresources to the most effective programs.Measuring the costs and benefits of home44Evaluationvisiting programs includes (1) defining thescope of the analysis; (2) measuring the costs,estimating the program effects or outcomes, andplacing monetary value on the effects; (3)accounting for the effects of time on costs ofresources; (4) summing the calculations of thevaluation of costs and outcomes across yearsand deciding which program is the bestalternative; (5) describing who gains and wholoses under each option; (6) identifying criticalassumptions made in the analysis and exploringthe effects of reasonable variations in thoseassumptions; and (7) describing the importantprogram effects that cannot be monetarilyvalued or perhaps even quantified. The authordiscusses six studies that reviewed the cost effectiveness of various home visiting programsthat varied in their goals, methods, and targetpopulations. The studies relied on narrowdefinitions of cost and placed value on selectedbenefits to which monetary values could easilybe assigned. The studies were clustered intothree groups: home visits after early hospitaldischarge, educational home visits combinedwith developmental child care and otherservices for low income families, and healthorganization sponsored home visits aimed atimproving parental care of infants and childhealth and development. The authors suggestthat the evaluation results show that two generation programs that address the needs ofparents and children can produce large benefits,and therefore appear to be an important focusfor economic evaluation.Results also suggest afocus on interventions targeting low incomeexpectant mothers and other high riskpopulations that have been found to beresponsive to home visiting. An appendixoutlines the nine essential steps involved in thecost benefit evaluation of home visitingprograms.3 tables, 45 references.(HE9700606)070Effectiveness and Efficiency of IndigenousHealth Aides in a Pediatric OutpatientDepartment.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wingert, W.A.; Grubbs, J.; Lenoski,E.F.; Friedman, D.B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.65(8):849 857, August 1975.Abstract:Investigators at the University ofSouthern California Medical Center sought(1) to determine whether1 year ofcomprehensive health supervision couldimprove the health and social welfare ofindigent families, and (2) to compare theeffectiveness of professional public healthnurses (PHN's) to that of supervisednonprofessional health aides in providing suchhealth care supervision. Seven female healthaides (ages 18 to 59 years) were recruited fromthe community served by the hospital. Thetraining program for the health aides included 2months of lectures, conferences, anddemonstrations that included family problemidentification and resolution, with continuouson the job instruction and weekly conferencesthereafter for 10 months. The health aidesperformed a complete survey of a family within1 month of program completion. At the end ofthe study, the project director and the PHNsupervisor evaluated the aides' performance.Results indicate that the aides were able tocollect and record data and perform a battery oftechnical multiphasic screening procedures ascapably as highly educated professionals.Aides, however, could not identify problems aseffectively as nurses and could not recognizemajor problems in all areas as well as PHN's.Aides and professionals did not differsignificantly in their pediatric problem solvingability, but the nurses proved superior to the45The Community Health Advisor/Workeraides in helping adults. 4 tables, 15 references.(HE9700O72)071Evaluation of Social Problem SolvingAbilities in Rural Home Health Visitorsand Visiting Nurses.Form:Journal article.Authors:lessee, P.O.; Cecil, C.E.Source:Maternal Child Nursing Journal.20(2):53 64, Summer 1992.Abstract:Researchers compared the skills andabilities of a selected sample of womeninvolved in home health care to suggest andthen prioritize solutions to a client's medicalproblem.Participants were 77 females residingin rural counties in west Alabama. Homevisitors who were trained, hired, and worked formore than 6 months in the Rural AlabamaPregnancy and Infant Health Program (RAPIH)constituted one group of black women. Homevisitors who had finished training and wereeither not hired or had worked for less than 7months constituted a second group (100 percentblack). Home visiting nurses from the AlabamaPublic Health Services serving the WestAlabama Health District constituted the thirdgroup. A group of black women from localcommunities who were recommended byproject personnel served as the controls.Researchers used two instruments, ThePractical Solutions Test (PST) and a Ranking ofSolutions Procedure (RSP), to gatherinformation. All of the trained groups wereable to generate more solutions to a typicalclient medical problem than was the controlgroup. The nurses group was more likely thanthe home visitors to suggest medical optionsover socioemotional solutions. The nurses alsoprioritized the solutions differently by rankingthem in a different sequence.Researchersconclude that the primary emphasis on medicaltopics seemed to be one of the factors thatdiscouraged client participation in the RAPIHproject during its first years of operation. Whenhome visitors were selected for employment onthe basis of personal qualities such asflexibility, empathy, and a strong sense of self,and when their training was redirected toprovide mothers with a source of emotionalsupport, client enrollment increased. 2 tables,22 references. (HE9700058)072Point of Diminishing Returns in NutritionEducation Through Home Visits by Aides:An Evaluation of EFNEP.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wang, V.L.; Ephross, PH.;Green, L.W.Source:Health Education Monograph.3(l):70 88, Spring 1975.Abstract: To determine the point ofdiminishing returns in continuing visits tohomemakers, investigators conducted a 3 yearevaluation of field work among low income,rural homemakers by nutrition aides employedby the Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) of the Maryland CooperativeExtension Service. Local aides were recruited,trained, and supervised by Extension staff. Oneof two experimental groups consisted of 49EFNEP homemakers being visited by aidesafter 3 years in the program. The secondexperimental group consisted of 44homemakers who had left the program after theend of their second year. The comparisongroups consist of matched samples of 34designated friends from the first experimentalgroup members and 24 friends of the secondexperimental group members. End of service tohomemakers in the second and third years wascontrolled by aides and homemakers, not by theinvestigators. The homemakers who continued46Evaluationin the program were more economicallydependent and socially disadvantaged than werethe homemakers who left the program. Thereseachers suggest that major gains innutritional adequacy, if any, were achieved inthe first year of contact between aide andhomemaker. The results suggest various pointsof diminishing returns beyond which behavioraland attitudinal changes are too small to justifycontinued home visits to a homemaker.Ingeneral, it appears that the third year of homevisits is superfluous. If cost effective homevisits are to be sustained after the first year,more emphasis must be placed onreinforcement of first year gains and onexpanding the scope of nutrition education toinclude other kinds of health education.7 tables, 9 references. (HE9700312)073Randomized Clinical Trial of HomeIntervention for Children With Failure toThrive.Form:Journal article.Authors:Black, M.M.; Dubowitz, H.;Hutcheson,