novel mechanical thrombectomy approach. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Ranked #1 (tied) in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Global Destination for robotic thoracic surgery training Top Rated in COPD, Lung Cancer Surgery, and Pneumonia* *High performing in USNWR procedures and conditions Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Emergent Imaging Identifies Source of Cardiopulmonary Symptoms Imaging pinpoints the location of the pulmonary emboli. After experiencing chest pain, the patient was initially monitored by a local cardiologist via continuous electrocardiogram until the embolism was diagnosed emergently after the patient lost consciousness at home. A CT scan reveals a pulmonary embolism in the right and left main pulmonary arteries where they branch into the lungs. Further Imaging Supports Mechanical Thrombectomy Approach An angiogram of the lungs revealed pulmonary artery filling defects, resulting in near-total, flow-limiting occlusion to both lungs. With thrombolytic treatment contraindicated, mechanical thrombectomy was elected. A pulmonary angiogram reveals a large filling defect in the right and left main pulmonary arteries, limiting blood flow to the lungs. Successful Intervention Restores Circulation and Stabilizes Patient Further angiography following mechanical thrombectomy demonstrated returned flow through the lungs, confirming the procedure successfully resolved the blocked pulmonary arteries and restored circulation. A pulmonary angiogram of the left lung (a) before and (b) after mechanical thrombectomy. Subscribe for Updates in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Medical Dermatology Services Medical dermatologists at NYU Langone specialize in treating a wide range of conditions that affect the skin, nails, mucous membranes, and hair. Our patients are referred to us by other dermatologists and from around the world because of our expertise in both complex and routine dermatologic conditions. Our experts use advanced technology to diagnose and treat a variety of dermatologic conditions for adults and children. Our doctors partner with you to understand your symptoms in order to make an accurate diagnosis. We provide dermatologic care to adults of all ages, and to children through our In our state-of-the-art dermatology suites, our doctors use advanced technology that allows them to perform procedures at any of our convenient locations. Our dermatologists are also actively involved in scientific research, which gives them access to groundbreaking treatments for a variety of conditions. Our Medical Dermatology Specialties NYU Langone dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting the skin, including the following: allergic and contact dermatitis basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma , and rarer skin cancers , including hemangiomas and moles connective tissue diseases, including , rashes, and environmental and occupational skin disorders and urticaria pigmented skin lesions, such as moles and atypical nevi nail disorders skin infections and other pigmentation disorders fungal infections warts Our Medical Dermatology Team Our dermatologists have vast experience treating a broad range of skin conditions, and work together to provide compassionate, individualized care. Amy K. Bieber, MD Roger Ho, MD, MPH Efe E. Kakpovbia, MD Mario Lacouture, MD Onco-Dermatology Jo-Ann M. Latkowski, MD Jackleen S. Marji, MD, PhD Arielle R. Nagler, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology Peter E. O'Neill, MD Miriam K. Pomeranz, MD Deborah Porges, MD Erin Schoor, MD Louis J. Siegel, D.O. Ian W. Tattersall, MD, PhD Jason G. Weed, MD Nicole Weiler, MD Julie H. Wu, MD John G. Zampella, MD Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joining international colleagues in Atlanta, April 6 to 8. Explore Cardiology Explore Heart Surgery A Leader in Cardiology and Heart Surgery in Heart & Vascular One-year heart transplant survival rate 5,000+ Transcatheter Aortic Valves (TAVRs) MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack Dr. Harmony G. Reynolds and a research team are proving that OCT and cardiac MRI and can clarify why many women have heart attacks without coronary artery narrowing. Read the interview. Subscribe for Updates in Cardiology & Heart Surgery Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome Simple scoring system may help prevent or mitigate risk of hungry bone syndrome after parathyroidectomy. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Drawing on a background in fine art, Dr. Michael Natter advocates for the many benefits of art in medicine. Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes Study finds eating meals earlier may help prevent diabetes and reduce glycemic variability. A Leader in Diabetes & Endocrinology in Diabetes & Endocrinology for Diabetes Care* AHA Research Network AHA Strategically Focused Research Network for Cardiometabolic Health Subscribe for Updates in Diabetes & Endocrinology Center for Amputation Reconstruction Team The care team at the offers support and treatment for people experiencing phantom limb sensation, neuroma pain, and pain and discomfort resulting from ill-fitting prostheses. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD Hand & Wrist Surgery, Orthoplastic Surgery Dr. Hacquebord is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon and accomplished microsurgeon with extensive experience in flap and free-tissue reconstruction of the upper and lower extremity. He holds dual appointments as assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery as well as the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery at NYU Langone. He is also co-chief of the Hand Surgery Service at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Omri B. Ayalon, MD Dr. Ayalon is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon specializing in surgery of the hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder with emphasis on nerve surgery, reconstructive procedures, and trauma. He is an assistant clinical professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Prosthetists YoniDiamond, CPO Mr. Diamond first became interested in the field of prosthetics and helping to restore people’s function and confidence during his service in the Peace Corps. He specializes in bracing and prosthetics and enjoys helping patients achieve their goals and regain their confidence. LauraKatzenberger, CP, LP Ms. Katzenberger helps patients who need upper limb prosthetics, working with a wide range of upper limb prosthetic components. She believes in an integrated, multidisciplinary approach that includes the prosthetist, occupational therapist, and technicians so patients receive customized care. She also helps educate therapists, physicians, and case managers about the effect that successfully created upper limb prosthetics can have on the lives of patients. Tom Passero, CP Mr. Passero had his leg amputated below the knee in 1974, an experience that inspired him to become a prosthetist. His focus in on advanced prosthetic technologies, such as microprocessor-controlled knees and bionic hands and fingers for people with unique upper limb prosthetic needs. He also leads discussions on upper limb prostheses with surgeons, physiatrists, occupational and physical hand therapists, and case managers. John Rheinstein, CP, FAAOP(D) Mr. Rheinstein is a board-certified prosthetist whose focus is restoring gait and grasp function in patients with limb loss. He specializes in complex upper and lower limb prosthetics and provides immediate postoperative care. He divides his time between providing care for people who need prosthetic devices and researching and testing new products. He also presents at academic conferences, teaches continuing education courses, publishes in textbooks and professional journals, and trains prosthetic residents. WR WendyRazzi Ms. Razzi is clinical coordinator at the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. She was born and raised in New York City and has been working in orthopedic surgery for 10 years. She is passionate about assisting in providing excellent patient care. In her spare time, she enjoys long-distance running, hiking, and fishing. We have doctors located throughout the New York City area. Our internationally recognized team of experts in NYU Langone’s Liver Care and Transplant Program works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and care for individuals who have liver disease. As part of the program, our liver specialists—called hepatologists—collaborate closely with our liver surgeons, liver transplant surgeons, interventional radiologists, medical oncologists, nutritionists, and other specialists to ensure that you receive the very best in personalized, advanced care, which is provided in a coordinated and compassionate manner. Our experts also work closely with specialists from NYU Langone’s for people who need treatment for liver cancer. Types of Liver Diseases The term liver disease refers to a number of conditions that can include: cirrhosis fibrosis non-alcoholic steatohepatitis State-of-the-Art Liver Tests and Procedures People who have liver disease need highly specialized, coordinated, and personalized care. Our NYU Langone liver specialists offer the most advanced diagnostic tests and endoscopic and surgical procedures, including: endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) liver biopsy liver surgery liver transplantation surgery paracentesis radioembolization transarterial chemoembolization transient elastography (FibroScan) transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) upper endoscopy with band ligation In addition to these tests and procedures, we offer advanced medical therapies for all liver conditions. For patients in need of a , our transplant hepatologists, transplant surgeons, and other specialists at NYU Langone's Transplant Institute provide care from initial referral through treatment and recovery. Our modern facilities include state-of-the-art testing sites, dedicated inpatient surgical and intensive care units, and outpatient physician offices. Our liver experts provide involving screening, prevention, and treatment for people with cirrhosis, hepatitis, liver cancer, and other liver conditions. These research efforts not only offer investigative new treatment options for our patients, but also contribute to advancements in science that will lead to improved treatment and care for future patients. To make an appointment with one of our gastroenterologists or hepatologists for treatment of liver disease, please call 212-263-3643. To schedule an evaluation for liver transplant, please call 212-263-8133. Our internationally recognized team of liver specialists works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and compassionate care for people who have liver disease. Lung & Liver Transplant Surgery Gives Dad Back a Normal Life Renowned Specialists Expand Liver Disease Programs NYU Langone’s Lupus Center provides patients with access to expert doctors and focused researchers. We use the most advanced diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for autoimmune diseases, often based on our experts’ own research findings. The center puts special emphasis on autoimmune disease as it affects pregnancy and on clinical trials for new treatments that may decrease overactive immune cells, reduce pathogenic autoantibodies that attack healthy tissue, and identify biomarkers that predict flare-ups and a patient’s response to therapy. Our rheumatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating patients with lupus. Pulmonary Intervention for Airway Conditions Interventional pulmonologists at NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program work with thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons to diagnose and manage airway conditions. These conditions include tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula, and tracheal or bronchial tumors, which can be noncancerous or cancerous, including carcinoid tumors. Our interventional pulmonologists specialize in bronchoscopy to evaluate, diagnose, and treat airway conditions. During bronchoscopy, a long, flexible tube with a camera on its end is placed through the mouth and into the trachea and bronchi. Interventional pulmonologists may also use a rigid bronchoscope to evaluate the airways and perform therapeutic interventions. The bronchoscope helps the care team view tissue in the airways, biopsy tissue, and perform minimally invasive treatments that do not require incisions or surgery. Advanced Diagnostic Tests To diagnose airway conditions, interventional pulmonologists use the following specialized tools and tests: a rigid bronchoscope with a beveled edge, which allows doctors to remove deeper tissue samples than flexible bronchoscopy and to place stents to keep the airway open, helping to assess whether surgery is a treatment option endobronchial ultrasound, which uses an ultrasound device to assess whether a tumor is growing into the many layers of the airway robotic bronchoscopy, during which an ultrathin scope using a precise navigation system finds and biopsies lesions deep in the airways narrow-band imaging or autofluorescence—imaging techniques that enhance the view of the tracheal and bronchial lining and help determine whether tumor tissue is present Pathologists evaluate tissue samples taken for biopsy to determine whether tumors are cancerous or benign. If a tumor is cancerous, our doctors may collaborate with specialists at NYU Langone to create your care plan. Interventional Approaches to Care Our interventional pulmonologists treat airway conditions in several different ways. These approaches, delivered through a bronchoscope, include the following: thermal therapy, which uses intense cold or heat to destroy tracheal or bronchial tissue that may be obstructing the airway steroid injections or topical mitomycin, a type of chemotherapy used to decrease tissue inflammation or growth that can be associated with tracheal stenosis endoscopic stent placement to seal a tracheoesophageal fistula or to open the airway in people who have tracheal stenosis or TBM; if a stent improves symptoms of TBM, surgery may be the next step in treatment photodynamic therapy, which uses lasers to destroy tumor cells after medication has made them sensitive to light Our doctors may also recommend continuous positive airway pressure therapy, commonly known as CPAP, which uses pressurized air to hold the airways open to manage some cases of TBM. If an interventional pulmonary procedure is not the best treatment option for managing an airway condition, our doctors may discuss the possibility of airway surgery with you. 212-598-2374 VEXAS Syndrome Care Program At NYU Langone’s Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program, the geneticists, rheumatologists, and certified genetic counselors on our team care for adults and children with autoinflammatory conditions whose symptoms are severe or whose cause is unknown. We use both genetic testing and research-based analysis to identify the underlying genetic causes of these conditions. Using this information, we work to provide the most-advanced targeted therapies, counseling about how the condition may develop and change over time, as well as risk assessment for other family members. Our team specializes in autoinflammatory conditions in which inflammation recurs without clear signs of infection, autoimmune disease, or cancer, including the following: VEXAS syndrome, a rare but serious condition that can cause unexplained symptoms throughout the body, such as fever and fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, coughing or shortness of breath, and Learn more about how we care for people with VEXAS syndrome periodic fever syndromes, which are conditions characterized by recurring fevers not caused by an infection severe, unexplained inflammation that causes symptoms in the bone marrow, lungs, cartilage, or skin Our experts evaluate the underlying genetic cause of autoimmune diseases with the goal of improving care for children and adults If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please call us at View All Locations (5) Interventional radiologists at NYU Langone are leaders in the use of minimally invasive surgical techniques that provide patients with an alternative to open surgery. This approach allows complex procedures to be performed in the arteries, veins, and almost every organ in the body. Our interventional radiologists are experts in minimally invasive surgical techniques. How Interventional Radiology Works Interventional radiologists are doctors who use X-ray, fluoroscopy, ultrasound, or CT scan imaging technology to guide small, specialized instruments through the body, allowing them to treat a wide variety of conditions affecting the blood vessels and organs. The techniques allow targeted therapies and procedures to be done quickly and safely, resulting in less discomfort, quicker recovery, and better results compared to open procedures. At NYU Langone, our physician team of interventional radiologists is supported by a group of specialized nurses and technologists. Interventional Radiology Treatments The list of medical conditions that can be treated by interventional radiology is constantly growing. Interventional radiology procedures can be used to treat cancer and improve blood circulation, among other things. Our interventional radiologists provide the following treatments: intra-arterial therapies including transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) and Y90 radioembolization to treat thermal ablation to treat non-small cell lung cancer, , and soft tissue cancers balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, and stenting to treat limb salvage procedures to treat critical limb ischemia, which causes chronic foot pain or ulcers that do not heal balloon angioplasty and stenting to treat chronic venous disease inferior vena cava filter and catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat by delivering clot-busting medicine directly to the clot prostate artery embolization to treat urinary symptoms related to embolization to treat gonadal vein embolization to treat varicoceles in men and in women Our doctors are board-certified specialists in interventional radiology. Frederic J. Bertino Hillel B. Bryk Beatriz Escobar RH Ryan M. Hickey Jason C. Hoffmann Vinay N. Kikkeri Shu Liu UL Umair Lodhi Anuj Malhotra Amir Noor Vikram Rajpurohit Mikhail Silk Our Locations (5) NYU Langone Interventional Radiology—Mineola 222 Station Plaza, Suite 140, Mineola, NY, 11501 Blood Conservation Techniques & Tools Through a team-based approach, experts at NYU Langone’s work closely across a range of specialties, including the following: allergy and anesthesiology and and endocrinology cardiology and dermatology and endovascular surgery and vascular surgery maternal fetal medicine oncology and hematology internal medicine and critical care neurology and and pulmonary medicine We choose the patient blood management techniques and tools that are right for you based on your needs, beliefs, and preferences, both before and during surgery. Aquamantys System The Aquamantys® System includes a generator and bipolar sealers that use radiofrequency energy and saline to seal soft tissue and bone, during or after surgery. This device helps to control bleeding and can be used during different types of surgeries. Argon Beam Coagulator An argon beam coagulator helps to control bleeding during surgery. An electric current is passed through a beam of argon gas and directed at the bleeding tissue to help blood quickly coagulate, or clot. Blood Salvage Techniques Our blood salvage, or cell salvage, techniques include the use of a device called the Cell Saver® that involves collecting lost blood, filtering it, and recycling it so it can be reinfused back into the body. This is generally used during or after surgical procedures in which a significant amount of blood loss is expected, eliminating the need for a blood transfusion. Electrocautery Electrocautery is a process in which a metal wire electrode generates heat to quickly seal blood vessels and reduce or stop bleeding during surgery or after an injury. Harmonic Scalpel Unlike a regular scalpel that is used to cut tissues during surgery, a harmonic scalpel uses ultrasound technology to cut and seal at the same time, causing blood to clot almost immediately. This reduces blood loss during surgery. Heart–Lung Machine A heart–lung machine is used during heart surgery to recirculate and oxygenate the patient’s own blood before directing it back into the body, reducing the need for blood transfusions. Hemodilution and Volume Expanders Hemodilution is a blood conservation technique that dilutes blood before surgery using intravenous (IV) fluids, or volume expanders, helping to minimize blood loss. Acute normovolemic hemodilution involves removing some of the blood just before dilution and returning it after the surgical procedure is completed. Medications to Conserve Blood We also use medications that help conserve blood and minimize blood loss during surgery. These include hemostatic drugs that help improve blood clotting, and synthetic erythropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to produce enough red blood cells to avoid transfusion. Minimally Invasive Surgery Techniques Our surgeons are experts in minimally invasive robotic surgery, using the da Vinci® Si and da Vinci® Xi surgical robots, which allows us to make smaller incisions that minimize blood loss. SpHb Noninvasive Hemoglobin Monitor The SpHb® hemoglobin monitor is a noninvasive device that provides continuous information about changes in hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. With this device, our surgeons receive real-time data that can help reduce the number of times we need to draw blood. VAMP System The VAMP™ system helps reduce blood loss when surgeons are taking blood samples during surgery. Typically, the blood that has been sampled and checked needs to be discarded. This closed system allows the sample that would have be wasted to be returned to the patient. Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, and Fady Khoury Collado, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Addressing the risk associated with placenta accreta requires early imaging-based diagnosis and comprehensive, highly coordinated care. NYU Langone’s new program emphasizes the collaboration and evidence-based tools needed to plan for expected deliveries as well as medical emergencies. Program co-directors also plan to pursue research and postdelivery uterine preservation to improve patient outcomes. On a Saturday afternoon several weeks before her due date, a pregnant woman with a history of two prior cesarean sections was rushed to NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn with heavy bleeding. She’d previously received a diagnosis of placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) disorder from maternal–fetal medicine specialist Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD , after imaging revealed a placenta previa and evidence of placental vessels within her uterus and her bladder. In patients with PAS, attempting to separate the placenta from the wall of the uterus can trigger massive and life-threatening hemorrhage. In this case, the prenatal bleeding that prompted the patient’s presentation to the hospital was likely due to the dilatation of her cervix from premature labor, exposing the placental bed in the setting of the placenta previa. The multidisciplinary care team, including Lindsey Buchin, MD Rebecca H. Jessel, MD Brian D. Taussig, MD , quickly mobilized and helped deliver a premature but healthy baby via cesarean section. Gynecologic oncologist Fady Khoury Collado, MD , was then able to safely perform a complicated hysterectomy, removing the uterus and the placenta while preserving the integrity of the patient’s bladder despite placental invasion. The resolution of this complex case exemplifies the systematic approach to imaging, early diagnosis, and coordinated care offered by NYU Langone’s new Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. “We’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery.” “Through this program, we’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery,” says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “It’s really a quality initiative from the get-go.” From Early Diagnosis to Coordinated Care One of the biggest risk factors for PAS is a history of cesarean sections. For women like the presenting patient, with placenta previa and a history of two prior cesareans, the risk of placenta accreta is as high as 40 percent . “With an estimated incidence of 1 in every 272 pregnancies , we’re seeing an exponential rise in the condition, tracking with the rising rate of C-sections,” says Dr. Jessel. Building on NYU Langone’s long-standing success in maternal and perinatal care, the new program aims to not only boost early diagnosis for PAS and strengthen the necessary care coordination across multiple specialties, but also improve long-term health outcomes. “We have a top-notch multidisciplinary team with the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition,” says Dr. Khoury Collado, who with Dr. Jessel serves as a program co-director. “We have the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition.” A central focus of the program is on educating and training staff, including the maternal–fetal medicine team and ultrasound technologists, on evidence-based diagnostic and treatment protocols. Early imaging and diagnosis, in turn, allow for two comprehensive care plans: one based on everything proceeding as expected, and a second that accounts for various what-if scenarios, says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “You always have both. But without identification, we can’t save women’s lives,” she says. To manage PAS, doctors generally deliver the baby via a planned C-section, being careful not to disrupt the placenta. They leave the placenta attached to the uterus and then remove it and the entire uterus together via a hysterectomy. “Despite that, it’s still considered a high-risk surgery with a high risk of bleeding, requiring several teams to work together,” says Dr. Khoury Collado. The new program is helping to bolster that essential coordination of prenatal care and surgical planning leading up to the day of delivery. At NYU Langone, multidisciplinary care for patients with PAS routinely involves neonatologists, an experienced nursing team, maternal–fetal medicine specialists, obstetrical anesthesiologists, gynecological oncologists, interventional radiologists, urologists, and the blood bank. “It really does take a village,” Dr. Jessel says. A Launchpad for Improving Outcomes Initial sites for the program include NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and Tisch Hospital in Manhattan, with plans for expansion across NYU Langone. As a trauma center, NYU Langone—Brooklyn has ready access to blood supplies and trauma surgeons, Dr. Mehta-Lee emphasizes, allowing it to offer emergency PAS care to a highly diverse patient population. The new program is designed to assess the care team’s needs and ensure rapid, reliable access to these trauma tools and services. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward.” As a long-term goal, Dr. Khoury Collado hopes to further improve patient outcomes by increasing the potential for uterine preservation. “Removing the uterus has a lot of psychological and physical health–related consequences. Avoiding that removal is a goal we think we can achieve in some cases,” he says. In the meantime, the co-directors plan to incorporate an academic research arm to better understand and characterize the disorder. From the clinical side, they hope to involve NYU Langone’s mental health services and a community health worker or patient navigator to guide patients through the complicated diagnosis and multistep care process. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward,” Dr. Jessel says. Maternal-Fetal Medicine Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, is a member of the faculty in obstetrics and gynecology and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. She specializes in placental development and function and in treating preeclampsia and placenta accreta spectrum. Fady Khoury Collado, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, section chief of Gynecologic Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. He specializes in treating gynecologic cancers and placenta accreta spectrum. Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD, is clinical associate professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NYU Langone Health, and site director for the Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. She is a National Institutes of Health-funded clinical investigator for the National Environmental Children’s Health Outcomes study, which seeks to investigate the effects of environmental exposures on childhood health outcomes. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Justin S. Brandt, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Justin S. Brandt, MD Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Health, is a national leader in advancing obstetric care that supports individuals with diverse gender identities. He previously served on the Diversity and Inclusion in the Workforce Committee for the Society of Maternal and Fetal Medicine, developing guidelines and shaping best practices for inclusive care. Here, Dr. Brandt shares insights from his years of experience supporting transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. A Call to Do Better What put you on the path of working with transgender and gender-diverse patients? Dr. Brandt: Raising a child who is gender diverse opened my eyes to some of the challenges faced by people who are not cisgender. As an obstetrician and maternal–fetal medicine subspecialist, I realized that there are even more challenges in front of transgender men and gender-diverse people during pregnancy. Pregnancy tends to be a very gendered process, but it doesn’t have to be. I realized that most of the care I was providing was focused on cisgender and heterosexual people. As a result of often-incorrect assumptions, I was not creating a welcoming environment for other people with birthing potential. As I learned more about the unique needs of transgender and gender-diverse people, I knew I could do better. I knew that my field of medicine could do better. And I’ve been motivated to work towards this goal—of providing affirming care for all people—for the last 10 years. Defining Affirming Care What does affirming pregnancy care look like for transgender and gender-diverse people? So much of the care that we provide for people who have diverse gender identities in pregnancy is the same as the care we provide to cisgender people. However, there are important differences too. So many people with diverse identities have had negative experiences in a traditional healthcare setting. As a result, many do not want to come to our offices for care. At NYU Langone, we are working to change that. We have worked to ensure that every member of our team is equipped to care for people with diverse identities. Through trainings, as well as changes in our physical practice, we are creating clinical spaces that are more welcoming. “Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires.” Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires. If someone is going to be pregnant and feels like a father or some other nonmother identity, we want to affirm their unique identity during pregnancy. Communication Is Critical When it comes to obstetric care, how can healthcare providers foster a welcoming and inclusive environment? In order to create an inclusive environment, we have to listen to our patients. When patients speak about their prior experiences and their goals for pregnancies, we must listen. This is how we develop care plans that are unique for each person. We then take those care plans and follow them—from the outpatient setting, where prenatal care starts, to labor and delivery, and ultimately to our postpartum floor, which we inclusively call the family care suite Another part of building an inclusive environment is making sure that people know that we want to care for all people at NYU Langone. Our clinical team at and across our health system has the skills and the desire to care for everyone who can get pregnant. Gender identity is a very personal topic; patients may find it hard to share their pregnancy care needs. As a provider, how do you create space for patients to discuss their desires during pregnancy? I think communication is key here. It’s so critical that patients have the experiences that they’re looking for, experiences that affirm their unique identities. But providers can’t know a patient’s goals or desires for pregnancy if there isn’t open communication. I’m often encouraging patients to talk with me—and their other doctors—about what they’re looking for in their birthing experience. “I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy.” A man who is transgender may have spent much of his life moving away from the gender associated with the sex he was assigned at birth. For some people, being pregnant or just coming to the obstetrician can be triggering. As an affirming provider, I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy. The Impact on Patients Can you share an example of a compassionate and inclusive interaction with a patient where the approach noticeably improved the patient’s care and overall experience? I just recently cared for someone with a nonbinary identity. The patient told me about their challenges trying to get pregnant and navigating doctors who didn’t understand them. I built trust in small ways—I asked questions about their gender identity, their pronouns, and their goals. At the end of the meeting, the patient told me that they felt heard for the first time in a doctor’s office. They didn’t think it was possible to have this type of experience with doctors. It was one of the first times in this person’s life that a healthcare provider had the knowledge to care for their unique needs and to help them achieve the healthcare experience that they were looking for. It was a very rewarding experience for me and one that I look forward to sharing with other patients as well. A Commitment to Inclusivity What are we not currently addressing that could make obstetrics and gynecology a more inclusive space? Obstetrics and the birthing process can be highly gendered. I think one of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women feel comfortable coming to us for care. This means changing the way we engage with patients at the front desk. This means changing the way we engage with patients when we provide care. This means providing care that allows people with nonbinary identities to have a birthing experience that affirms their identities. “One of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women but who have the potential to get pregnant feel comfortable coming to us for care.” NYU Langone has one of the best medical schools in the country, and we’re teaching the next generation of physicians how to provide affirming care, how to show respect for patients with diverse needs, and how to provide world-class care for all people. I am honored to be part of this academic team. Another area that comes to mind is research. Traditional research has focused on people with binary identities—women and men. There’s a lot of research looking at obstetrical outcomes of women with various risk factors for pregnancy complications. This type of research has excluded people with nonbinary identities who get pregnant. The obstetric research community is starting to realize how to perform research that captures all people with birthing potential. In time, and with the adoption of inclusive research practices, we will be able to provide better care for all people and to address the unique needs of people with birthing potential who are women, men, and other identities. Justin S. Brandt, MD, is director of the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine. His research interests include bibliometrics, inclusive best practices, obstetric ultrasound, and maternal and fetal complications. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Dr. Jonathan Gerber on the path to leadership, his swift pivot during COVID, and his priorities as a chief clinical officer. Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Division director Dr. Gary Deutsch shares his vision for elevating cancer care on Long Island. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Radiation oncologist Dr. Jonathan Yang discusses the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Acclaimed breast surgeon Dr. Mary Gemignani discusses her approach to leadership, education, and holistic care. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care Eugenia Montesinos, CNM. Source: NYU Langone Health. Midwives’ natural approach to care was the most prevalent method to childbirth until the 18th century, when clinical institutions began challenging their approach. They regained their strength in the 1960s, during the consumer childbirth revolution, and