Recognitions at Our Hospitals NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion nursing teams have received five exemplars, or examples of best practices, in the following areas: reducing mortality rates through NYU Langone’s rapid response teams, comprising nurses who deliver care immediately during emergencies interdisciplinary collaboration with our information technology teams in our electronic records system, Epic, to develop an innovative workflow for alerting clinicians if a patient has measles gender-affirming care, highlighting that NYU Langone is a leader in providing culturally competent nursing care to the our tobacco use screening program, which yields better results than any other hospital system in the country our nursing research program, citing the number of journal publications and presentations NYU Langone’s nursing teams are involved in NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital nurses have received five exemplars in the following areas: support and encouragement of nursing specialty certification interdisciplinary collaboration on improving outcomes for patients who are having same-day extensive resources used to support clinical decision-making in autonomous nursing practice screening all patients for tobacco use and offering support through our Tobacco Cessation Programs organizational structures and processes that support the use of evidence-based findings in order to implement innovative nursing practices NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s nursing teams have received two exemplars in the following areas: postoperative glucose management in patients who have had cardiac surgery that consistently outperforms national benchmarks vesicant infiltration, or wound infection, rates that are consistently below the Oncology Nursing Society’s nationally published rate We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff. These exemplars represent just a few notable examples of the highest levels of care that our nurses deliver each and every day. Leaders in Mother–Baby Care Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are designated as Baby-Friendly Hospitals, a distinction awarded by Baby-Friendly USA in acknowledgment of our nurses’ commitment to breastfeeding support and education. The designation is awarded to less than 10 percent of hospitals in the United States. This global program recognizes hospitals and birthing centers that provide an outstanding level of obstetric care. Hospitals that achieve the Baby-Friendly designation must undergo a rigorous on-site survey as well as implement all of the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding, which represent practices that have been shown to increase breastfeeding initiation and duration, and meet the requirements of purchasing breast milk substitutes. Becoming a Baby-Friendly facility is a comprehensive, detailed, and thorough journey toward excellence in providing evidence-based maternity care, with the goal of achieving optimal infant feeding outcomes and mother–baby bonding.> Specialized Stroke Care Our nurses are proud to provide the most advanced care at NYU Langone’s , which is certified by The Joint Commission. As core members of our stroke team, our nurses are often the first to respond during a stroke, where our teams mobilize rapidly to immediately treat patients with stroke. Nurses in our stroke and neurointensive care units are specially trained to coordinate care from stroke risk identification through treatment and recovery, and are able to administer the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Stroke Scale for acute stroke assessment. Along with extensive training in stroke protocols, our nurses also participate in regular stroke conferences, and many hold advanced certifications in stroke nursing. At each of our inpatient hospitals, we host residency programs for all newly licensed nurse graduates who hold a BSN. The program supports the transition from an academic to a clinical setting by incorporating interactive classroom instruction with hands-on clinical training. By embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team, our nurses deliver the best and safest care. The program emphasizes three components: leadership, patient safety, and professional responsibilities. As a member of the nursing staff on an assigned unit, nurse residents are provided with clinical support and mentoring relationships to help them develop their abilities and confidence as a professional. Distinction in Nursing Research NYU Langone supports a culture of inquiry through research and evidence-based practices among nurses by providing programs and services designed to elevate and enrich their research and scholarly achievements. Every technique, procedure, and skill performed by our nurses is based on contemporary scientific evidence, allowing our nurses to provide exceptional care. Nurse–scientists and researchers at our Center for Innovations in the Advancement of Care (CIAC) help sharpen research skills through online resource utilization and hands-on workshops for NYU Langone nurses. The offerings include research and scholarly skills workshops and lectures to help nurses develop effective research methods and perform literature searches using state-of-the-art electronic platforms, as well as one-on-one and small group consultation sessions that cover topics such as institutional review board submission procedures, protocol development, research design, database creation, and data analysis. Magnet reviewers cited the CIAC’s scholarly presentation and publication database an exemplar of research-related programming. A recent addition is our Nursing Science Fellowship program. This structured program provides NYU Langone nurses with the opportunity to develop their nursing science skills in an academic health system. The center also hosts quarterly nursing research forums in the spring and fall on a variety of topics, specifically tailored to nurses working across the health system. Recent topics include research on mothers who continue to express milk after their infant’s death for donation purposes, the nurse manager’s role, and the lived experiences of adult individuals from the transgender community seeking access and obtaining healthcare. Nursing research forum speakers are nurses within the NYU Langone community who are doctoral candidates or hold a PhD. These educational and informational sessions are approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Annual Nursing Science Conference is the longest running hospital-based nursing science conference in the country and features nationally recognized nurse researchers and scholars who present a keynote speech. The keynote speakers continue their involvement at NYU Langone as McClure Scholars, interacting with staff before or after the conference. The conference program is approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Registration is now open for the 27th Annual Nursing Science Conference For more information on the conference or any of the programs we offer, please email CIAC.Info@nyulangone.org Our Nursing Leadership at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn offers medical and surgical options to people who need assistance and guidance in their effort to reach and maintain a healthy weight. Start Your Weight Loss Journey Learn more about the surgical options we offer during a free, virtual information session. Register and view the online seminar is a serious medical condition that increases a person's risk of , and certain cancers. Losing weight and keeping it off is not always easy, and for some people, medically supervised nutrition counseling or surgery are the best way to achieve long-lasting results. The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn provides the following treatment options: The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program. Our surgeons are based in Brooklyn and Staten Island, and are fluent in English, Arabic, French, Spanish, Hindi, and Urdu. Surgery is performed at Attend a Weight Loss Surgery Information Seminar Before coming to our Weight Management Program for a surgery consultation, we strongly recommend that you attend a free, online information seminar. This seminar gives you the details about bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, that you and your surgeon will use to decide which operation is right for you. Learn more about the information seminar Job Details 2025-01-07T03:55:38+00:00 000015_000015 / Virtual Interview Day – Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! Job ID: 000015_000015 Facility: NYU Grossman School of Medicine (SOM) Position Type: Full-Time/Regular Shift: Days and Nights Available Department: Physician Assistants, Medicine-Hospital Med Division (S2057) Apply for This Position Apply as Current Employee Virtual Interview Day Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant Internal Medicine – Bellevue. Day and Night shifts available!  Seeking individuals who have a passion in servicing underserved populations. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision, coordination, and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care, performance of therapeutic, corrective, and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population, assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Medical Center. Job Responsibilities: Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. Supports the mission, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of the institution, department and clinical service. Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols, pathways, and other means. Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members. Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards, patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise. Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members, house staff, other disciplines and ancillary services. Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting. Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services, e.g. home care, other facilities, appointments with MDs etc. Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge. Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities. Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards. Functions as a respectful member of the health care team. Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role. Maintains current expertise in area of practice. Maintains annual CME requirement for re-appointment and privileging. Maintains PA board certification. Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals. Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement. Uses evidence-based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service. Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise. Assists in the preparation, implementation, and evaluation of research protocols when applicable. Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position, particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service. Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials, including patient screening, enrollment and data collection. At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical, surgical and other specialty areas. Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred. Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills, effective communication skills, creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills. Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities.Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable. Prescribes in-patient and discharge medications according to New York State law, including controlled substances with DEA authorization. Prescribes medical equipment, devices, physical and occupational therapy, and home health services per practice protocol. Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges. Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently. Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols. Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor’s Degree (BA-PA) NCCPA Board Certification ACLS, PALS, NRP Provider (Neonatal Resuscitation Program) NALS per delineation of privileges. Required Licenses: Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst, Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Preferred Qualifications: Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Qualified candidates must be able to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s EEO policies, please click here . Please to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm for more information. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $120,000 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Salaries shown on independent jobs related websites reflect market averages and do not represent information obtained directly from NYU Langone. We invite and encourage each candidate to discuss salary/hourly specifics during the application and hiring process. Read More About This Job Share this job: Save this job View Job Cart Related Job Listings Other Jobs That May Interest You Physician Assistant - Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Physician Assistants Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner - Non-invasive Cardiology - Manhattan - 10hr Days Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner - Medical ICU About NYU Langone Health Be Where Everyone Is Dedicated to Exceptional Care NYU Langone is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture devoted to excellence across the organization. Here, you can advance your career supported by exceptionally talented faculty and staff in an environment where everyone works together to deliver the best possible outcomes for our patients. Our Hiring Process Joining Our Team Get ready to start your career journey at NYU Langone, where cutting-edge research meets compassionate care, and discover how you can contribute to shaping the future of medicine. Step 1 Apply Online The NYU Langone hiring process begins with you applying through our online portal. Be sure to update and upload your resume. Shortly after you submit your application, you will receive an email confirmation. Ten days after applying you will receive a talent assessment to be completed. Step 2 Schedule Interviews If selected to continue the interview process, HR will reach out via phone or email first. Then, depending on your position, they will schedule an interview with unit managers or team members. You are encouraged to dress professionally for all interviews. Step 3 Receive Offer If you successfully complete the interview process and are identified as a finalist for the position, we will require that you complete a professional reference process. After evaluating the completed references, a decision will be made on who will receive a preliminary offer. If you receive a preliminary offer, HR will start the onboarding process with an agreed-upon tentative start date. Step 4 Training & Orientation You will be contacted by an onboarding specialist who will work with you on your pre-boarding requirements. Once fully cleared, we will ask you to complete compliance orientation regulatory training. On your first day, you will attend an online required orientation to acclimate to the health system and report to your new department based on instructions provided by your hiring manager. Hear From Our Team Joseph O. Jane F. Noa L. Victoria L. Nazneen H. Refrigeration Engineer Helper In my role, I provide a favorable atmosphere for our patients, visitors, employees, and students by ensuring their safety against fire hazards and by maintaining conducive temperatures throughout the seasons. I'm proud to work alongside my teammates to provide excellent service at a world-class organization that offers great opportunities to deserving candidates. Jan 2018 Security Officer Nov 2022 Dental Assistant NYU Langone Health is a great place to work. I enjoy working with my colleagues as a team. NYU Langone offers training programs that allow us to grow within the organization. I feel valued as  an employee. Feb 2009 Senior Nursing Assistant – Stroke Unit MAR 2022 Dental Assistant Trainee FEB 2023 Supervisor, Patient Access Center When I first began working at NYU Langone Health, I felt a sense of belonging and realized this is where I want to spend the rest of my professional career. Since joining, I've pushed myself to do well in every position I have and to advance. I not only enjoy my current role, but I also enjoy learning about new topics. I am excited to explore what else NYU Langone has to offer me in my career. Nov 2021 Access Center Representative I Aug 2022 Access Center Representative II Oct 2023 Lead Access Center Representative Sept 2024 Growing up in New York City, I was aware of the prestige that NYU Langone Health held, so I decided to pursue a career at the premier health system after graduation. I enjoy helping, treating and supporting everyday New Yorkers and feeling like I make a difference. Working here, I feel like I am able to show up as my authentic self to assist our patient community. Nov 2016 Jul 2022 I was fortunate to receive firsthand training from some of the founding team members of my department. This made my onboarding experience invaluable, and now I will get to pass on my knowledge and experience to future new hires within the department and pay it forward. The collaborative spirit at NYU Langone Health has created an excellent work culture where I can work alongside colleagues who share our same company vision to serve, teach and discover. Clinical Charge Nurse Auditor in Revenue Management Initiatives What are the employment options offered at NYU Langone? We offer different employment options to fit every schedule and talent area of interest. These options include full time, part time, per diem, internship, and temporary. What if the opportunity I’m looking for is not available? We are growing rapidly and are always looking for exceptional people to join our organization. New positions are posted to our careers site daily. How often are your jobs updated? We update our job postings daily. How do I apply for a job at NYU Langone? All applications should be submitted by clicking the “Apply for This Position” button on any job listing. How do I apply for a temporary position? To search and apply for our available temporary opportunities, use the Job Search function, which is accessible on the home page and other careers site pages. NYU Langone has various temporary opportunities, including our In-House Temporary Staffing Program. The Program is designed to place highly skilled individuals in temporary assignments throughout NYU Langone to help our departments meet their commitment to quality patient care, research, and operations. These individuals are temporary employees within NYU Langone and adhere to all NYU Langone policies and guidelines. How do I apply for an internship opportunity? Paid internship opportunities can be found on our careers site by searching via the Job Search function. Unpaid internships are organized by department. You can explore our departments at NYU Langone to find an internship opportunity that suits your educational endeavors. Additionally, please visit the internship page to learn more about our internship opportunities. Do I need an email address to apply for positions at NYU Langone? Yes, an email address is required to complete the online application. You must have an active email account, as you will receive email notifications once your application has been received. What format should my resume be in? In order for your resume to be submitted successfully, it should be in one of the following supported formats: .pdf, .txt, .rtf, .doc, .docx, or .html. How will I know if my application was successfully submitted? You will receive an email confirmation after you have completed the online application process. To ensure that the information you submitted was completed accurately, you are encouraged to log in to your account and review your information. You will also receive an email confirmation after successfully applying for a specific position. To check the status of your application, please click Current employees can check application status on the Steps for Success Career Portal 0000020_0000020 Virtual Interview Day – LPN Lake Success Job ID: 0000020_0000020 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Shift: M-F Department: Nursing, FGP-NYU Lake Success Medical (W8398) NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) VIRTUAL LPN INTERVIEW DAY! Seeking passionate LPNs who will support our Endocrinology and Multispecialty facilities in Lake Success!  For immediate consideration, please apply online. JOB SUMMARY – Successful candidate will provide endocrinology education to diabetic patients and partner with registered nurse in assessing patients, going over treatment plans, gathering medical history, and assisting with respective screenings.  Must be compassionate, detail oriented, and the ability to multi-task. Multispeciality – The LPN will be responsible for administering all vaccinations and triaging patients at this facility.  Specialties comprise of Internal Medicine, OB/GYN, Neurology and Plastic Surgery. The FGP LPN will assist the RN in the care of patients and families by completing assigned patient care tasks, in accordance with the NYS LPN scope of practice and NYULH policy. In this role, the FGP LPN will provide competent, safe, and compassionate care with emphasis on an understanding of the challenges faced by health maintenance, illness, hospitalization, undergoing procedures, or diagnostic testing. The FGP LPN will check vital signs, recording a patients medical history, and utilize specialized skills and safety when carrying out specific tasks of patient care as assigned, including phlebotomy, point of care testing via finger stick, with certification, and electrocardiograms. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS Graduate from an accredited LPN program with current NY State LPN licensure and registration. Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS BLS certification preferred Good comprehension of the English language NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $42,847.99 – $62,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island’s EEO policies, please Clinical Perfusionist, per diem Nursing Senior Nursing Attendant - Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Mineola, NY Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) - OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Joseph J. Lhota, executive vice president and vice dean, chief financial officer and chief of staff, is responsible for the overall financial management of NYU Langone Health, including financial operations and accounting; financial planning, analysis, and budgets; revenue cycle operations; supply chain management; decision support, strategy, and value improvement; and technology opportunities and ventures. As chief of staff, Mr. Lhota is responsible for strategic planning, business development, emergency management, and enterprise resilience for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Additionally, he assists the dean and CEO in aligning patient care, scientific research, and medical education for an integrated, world-class academic medical center. Mr. Lhota brings more than 40 years of managerial and policymaking experience to the position. He was a candidate for mayor of the City of New York in 2013. From 2011 to 2012, Mr. Lhota served as chairman and CEO of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). During his tenure, mass transit service throughout the New York metropolitan area expanded. The rapid response and quick restoration of the entire MTA system after the devastation of Superstorm Sandy are recognized as a case study in excellent managerial leadership. From 2002 to 2010, he served as chief administrative officer at The Madison Square Garden Company and held senior executive positions at Cablevision Systems Corporation, including executive vice president–corporate administration, chief financial officer of Rainbow Media Enterprises, and president of Lightpath. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Lhota served as New York City deputy mayor for operations. He was a leader of the core management team that developed and implemented the innovative strategies and initiatives that accomplished the successful turnaround of the City. As deputy mayor, he coordinated the City’s highly acclaimed response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Prior to his appointment as deputy mayor, he was the director of the Mayor’s Office of Management and Budget and responsible for the City’s $36 billion operating budget and $45 billion capital infrastructure budget. He served as commissioner of finance for the City, as well as chairman of the board of the New York City Employees’ Retirement System and the Teachers’ Retirement System and a board member of the NYC Health and Hospitals Corporation. From 2001 to 2014, Mr. Lhota was a trustee of the City University of New York and chairman of its Fiscal Affairs and Investments Committees. Prior to his public service, Mr. Lhota spent 14 years in investment banking, serving state and local governments, healthcare institutions, and nongovernmental organizations throughout the United States, and two years in public accounting, specializing in healthcare and financial services. Mr. Lhota has served as NYU Langone’s chief of staff since 2014, and in 2024 he was additionally appointed chief financial officer. As chief of staff, he was integral in shaping NYU Langone’s strategic vision and managing an organizational culture that recognizes innovation, execution, efficiency, effectiveness, and—above all—quality performance. Mr. Lhota managed the successful integration effort of Lutheran Medical Center into , shepherded the system through the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergencies, and strengthened NYU Langone’s relationships with governments and local communities. Mr. Lhota received an undergraduate degree, cum laude, from Georgetown University and a master’s degree in business administration from Harvard Business School. As a child, Catherine S. Manno, MD , was influenced by the way in which her physician father treated his patients. And so, when she helped build the team at , she set out to provide a new level care for children. With a world-class care team and a state-of-the-art facility, she strives to make a child’s hospital experiences as normal as can be—with as much kindness as possible. Learn About Our Services for Children Meet Our Experts Dr. Arun Chopra, Pediatric Intensive Care Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal, Pediatrician and Adolescent Medicine Specialist Dr. Jason Fisher, Pediatric Surgeon Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Director of Congenital Heart Surgery Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov, Chief of Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher, Director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center Dr. Elizabeth Raetz, Director of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Dr. Scott Rickert, Pediatric Ear, Nose, and Throat Surgeon Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff, Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery From advanced treatment options to cutting-edge clinical trials, offers personalized care for all types of cancer. Hear first-hand from cancer survivors on how this individualized approach has helped them. Learn About Perlmutter Cancer Center Meet Some of Our Patients and Experts Meet Phil and Paul: Prostate Cancer Survivors Meet Dr. Francis Arena: Medical Oncologist Meet Dr. Richard Shapiro: Surgical Oncologist, Breast and Skin Cancer Meet Dr. Dafna Bar-Sagi: Chief Scientific Officer at NYU Langone Meet Dr. Jiyoung Ahn: Associate Director, Population Sciences Technology has completely changed how we live our lives: with just a few taps, we can call a car, order a meal, or find the nearest urgent care—all on our mobile devices. It’s afforded an amazing amount of freedom, access, and efficiency. You can get a similar level of digital service you’re used to in other industries when you receive healthcare at NYU Langone. Our integrated medical record system enables seamless collaboration among doctors, staff, and patients. Using our , you have access to your medical records, anytime and anywhere. You can view test results, video chat with a doctor when you’re home sick through , make appointments for you or your family—and this is all just the beginning of our digital health offerings. From the design of our hospital, artificial intelligence harnessed in cancer research, high-precision robotic surgery, and virtual reality in medical school training, digital health has permeated our mission: to serve, to teach, and to discover. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Team , we know that having affects more than just your physical wellbeing. It impacts many facets of your life, including how well you get around, your ability to remain in the workforce, and your mental outlook. That’s why every affected person and his or her family meet with specialists who can address the different challenges of living with multiple sclerosis. These specialists include our neurologists, psychologists, and urologists , as well as the following members of our care team. Neuropsychologist Leigh E. Charvet, PhD Dr. Charvet is a clinical neuropsychologist and director of MS research. She received her doctorate from Vanderbilt University and completed an internship at VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven Campus, and Yale Epilepsy Program, followed by a postdoctoral fellowship at Stony Brook Medicine. Her primary research activities focus on cognitive changes associated with MS in both adults and children, along with cognitive remediation and other approaches to improve functioning and prevent decline. Her recent research includes a program for remotely supervised transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to alleviate MS symptoms of fatigue, cognitive slowing, and motor deficits. Learn more about Dr. Charvet Nurse Practitioners Carrie Lyn Sammarco, DrNP, FNP-C, MSCN Dr. Sammarco received her doctor of nursing practice degree from the Columbia University School of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center team in 2010. Dr. Sammarco specializes in the management of highly complex MS symptoms and has a special interest in incorporating mindfulness techniques into her practice. Jennifer Abate, DNP, FNP-BC, APHN-BC, MSCN Dr. Abate received her doctor of nursing practice degree from New York University Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2015. Dr. Abate has additional training in holistic and palliative care. She strives to provide individualized care plans that match each patient’s values and goals. Learn more about Dr. Abate Gabriella Brogna, AGPCNP-BC Melissa Docteur, MSN, PMHNP-BC Melissa is a board-certified nurse practitioner. She received her master of nursing practice degree from Hunter College School of Nursing. At the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center, Melissa specializes in the management of psychiatric conditions and mental health concerns that are often associated with MS. In her practice, she strives to implement a holistic approach that incorporates different psychotherapy modalities and medication management. Registered Nurses Lisa Laing, MSCN, BSN, RN Lisa is a registered nurse certified in the care of people with MS. She is the senior nurse clinician and has 25 years of experience and expertise in providing education and symptom management strategies. Richard Del Pino, BSN, RN, MSCN Richard is an MS-certified registered nurse with three years of experience working with MS patients. Richard helps provide disease education, including symptom management techniques, and assists in providing high-quality medical care to our patients. Emily Meyer, MSCN, MSN, RN Emily is an MS-certified nurse with seven years of experience working with MS patients and their families. She provides education about medications and symptom management. She is most passionate about assisting patients with care coordination and providing support to help patients achieve their highest quality of life. Laura Mendez, BSN, RN Laura joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center in 2021. As part of the team, she provides education to children, adolescents, and adults who have multiple sclerosis or other demyelinating conditions. She also educates and counsels parents and guardians on a variety of issues, including symptom management and treatment, while reminding them that MS will not be an obstacle in their child’s future. Her goal as a nurse is to explain the complexities of MS while communicating in a meaningful and caring way. Rachel Decker, LMSW As a licensed master social worker (LMSW), Rachel provides comprehensive support to individuals living with multiple sclerosis. She offers counseling and supports services tailored to each patient’s unique needs. Rachel works closely with patients and their families to connect them with valuable resources in the community, ensuring they have the tools and support necessary to navigate their journey with MS. For more information, or to make an appointment, please call NYU Langone Nursing Leadership The nursing leadership team at NYU Langone is committed to excellent patient outcomes, maintaining a high-quality nursing practice environment, and advancing our institution’s commitment to quality care. John Davidson, MBA, PA-C Senior Director of Advanced Practice Providers Kathleen DeMarco, PhD, MSN, NE-BC, CPHQ, RN System Senior Director of Nursing Wellness and Resilience Kimberley Ennis, DNP, RN Site Leader of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Jose M. Hernandez, MS, BS, RN Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Alice Nash, PhD, RN, NPD-BC, NEA-BC System Senior Director, Nursing Professional Development and Clinical Outcomes Rita Roberts, RN, AAS, BSN Vice President of Perioperative and Procedural Areas, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Joan Scagliola, MSN, RN, NEA-BC Senior Director of Outpatient Oncology and Hospital Ambulatory Clinical Services Jaclyn S. Schindler, PMC, MPH, BSN, FNP-BC, RN-BC Senior Director, Clinical and Nursing Operations, Faculty Group Practice Lauraine Spano-Szekely, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Peter Rodney, RN, MSN, CNOR, NEA-BC Vice President of Perioperative Services, Manhattan Lauren Stoerger, DNP, RN, NEA-BC, CCRN-K Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Will Winfree, MHA System Senior Director, Nursing Operations Strategy and Innovation Kathleen Evanovich Zavotsky , PhD, RN, CCRN, CEN, ACNS-BC, FAEN, FCNS System Senior Director, Nursing Research and Program Evaluation Nancy Sanchez, executive vice president and vice dean for human resources, is responsible for strategic human resource initiatives, practices, and overall operations that support more than 40,000 faculty, staff, and students across NYU Langone Health. Having started her career in human resources (HR), she has held numerous leadership roles in areas of compensation, benefits, employee and labor relations, recruitment, and training. Ms. Sanchez developed an early business