ankle cartilage restoration and ligament reconstruction elbow arthroscopy for thrower’s elbow hip arthroscopy for labral tear repair We also offer additional procedures to repair injuries to the knee, shoulder, elbow, hand, and other areas, including the following: arthrocentesis, in which fluid build-up in the knee or shoulder is removed capsular release of the shoulder cruciate ligament surgery and reconstruction of the ACL, posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), lateral collateral ligament (LCL), and medial collateral ligament (MCL)—all types of knee tears elbow ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction, also known as Tommy John surgery knee osteotomy to ease arthritis pain meniscectomy, which is the removal of painful, damaged cartilage in the knee joint meniscus repair, including meniscus allograft transplantation patellar instability surgery to put a dislocated kneecap back into place pectoralis major repair for shoulder injuries most commonly seen in professional weight lifters proximal hamstring repair superior labral tear from anterior to posterior (SLAP) and labral repair of the shoulder tendolysis to repair damaged hand or wrist tendons Members of our specialized team at NYU Langone’s aim to advance the quality of dance science and improve the delivery of dance medicine. We do this by conducting ongoing research , establishing standards of excellence for dance medicine practitioners, and serving on the boards and committees of national and international dance medicine associations and journals. The members of our team have worked with some of the top dance companies and Broadway productions Donald J. Rose, MD Director | Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Dr. Rose is an orthopedic surgeon and founding director of NYU Langone’s Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, as well as a clinical associate professor at NYU Langone. He is the orthopedic consultant to the Joyce Theatre and Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, State University of New York (SUNY); numerous dance companies including Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre, Dance Theatre of Harlem, Cirque du Soleil, Martha Graham Dance Company, and STREB Extreme Action; and many Broadway and off-Broadway shows. Dr. Rose received the prestigious Dance Library of Israel Documents of Dance Award in 1997, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (UMDNJ) Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2002, and the UMDNJ Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2012. He has written numerous chapters and papers on sports medicine, dance injuries, and arthroscopic surgery, and has been listed as a “Top Doctor” by New York Magazine and Castle Connolly. Alison Deleget, MS, ATC Assistant Director Ms. Deleget completed her bachelor’s degree in ballet and her master’s degree in athletic training at Indiana University. She also holds a graduate certificate in core business competencies from NYU. With 20 years’ experience in performing arts medicine, Ms. Deleget has worked with various elite dance companies and Broadway shows in New York, including Dance Theatre of Harlem, Martha Graham, Complexions Contemporary Ballet, Ballet Hispánico, Hamilton, Wicked, Les Miserables, and the Public Theater. She has lectured extensively within the dance community and at national and international conferences. Lauren E. Borowski, MD Associate Director | Sports Medicine Dr. Borowski is a board-certified family medicine physician with an added qualification in sports medicine. A dance major at NYU’s Tisch School of the Arts led Dr. Borowski to pursue a career in sports medicine with a particular interest in dance and performing arts medicine. She is excited to be in New York City to work with the amazing members of its dance community. Faye E. Dilgen, PT, DPT Program Manager Dr. Dilgen holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University and has completed coursework for a doctorate in pathokinesiology from NYU. She has been treating dancers at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries for more than 25 years and was a founding physical therapist for the program. She specializes in orthopedic manual therapy, rehabilitation, and functional training for performing artists and is certified in mat Pilates. Dr. Dilgen has treated dancers from numerous companies, Broadway shows, and schools. Staff Physicians Tracy Espiritu McKay, D.O. Dr. McKay is a board-certified physical medicine and rehabilitation physician with an additional qualification in sports medicine. Her love of musical theater provided her with the opportunity to perform on many famous stages, including at Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall. By providing care to artists and performers, Dr. McKay hopes to assist them in their pursuit of the arts and to remain connected to a field she is passionate about. She is overjoyed at the opportunity to work and collaborate with the Harkness team. David S. Weiss, MD Consulting Physician | Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Dr. Weiss is an orthopedist specializing in sports medicine and performing arts medicine. He served as an associate director at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries and is now an attending physician and clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone. Dr. Weiss serves as an orthopedist for Mark Morris Dance Group, Paul Taylor Dance Company, Parsons Dance Company, Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo, Ballet Hispánico, The Juilliard School, and many Broadway shows, including Hamilton The Book of Mormon Chicago Wicked Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Beetlejuice Hadestown . In all, he has served as an orthopedist for more than 90 Broadway and off-Broadway theatrical productions over the past several decades. In July 2020, he became president of the board of directors of the Dance Research Foundation. Dr. Weiss received his bachelor’s degree summa cum laude from Brandeis University, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his medical degree from Yale School of Medicine. He completed his orthopedic and sports medicine training at Yale New Haven Medical Center, NYU Langone, NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue, and University of Chicago Medicine. Acupuncturist AY Ayla Yavin, MS, LAc A former professional dancer, Ms. Yavin has more than 14 years’ experience as an acupuncturist, with special areas of focus including injury rehabilitation and prevention, psychological resilience, healthy lifestyle, and professional longevity. She earned her bachelor of arts in religion at Swarthmore College and her master of science in oriental medicine at Touro College. Ms. Yavin enjoys collaborating within integrative medical environments. Athletic Trainers Joshua Honrado, DAT, MS, ATC, CSCS, RYT Athletic Trainer Dr. Honrado provides backstage care to Broadway shows and elite dance companies, as well as injury prevention assessments and educational lectures to the dance community. He received his doctor of athletic training degree from A.T. Still University and is a certified strength and conditioning specialist and a registered yoga teacher. Molly McEvoy, MS, ATC Ms. McEvoy holds a bachelor’s degree in exercise science and a master’s degree in athletic training from Shenandoah University, where she also earned a graduate certificate in performing arts medicine. Prior to joining the Harkness Center team, she was assistant athletic trainer at Keiser University. Her graduate studies included work with the dancers of the Houston Ballet. Lauren McIntyre, ATC Clinical Specialist, Emergency Management Liaison Ms. McIntyre provides backstage care to Broadway shows and dance companies as well as injury prevention assessments and educational lectures to the dance community. She is an on-site certified athletic trainer for The Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, SUNY. CO CalvinOrallo, MS, ATC Mr. Orallo has been working with performing artists ranging from students to professionals since graduating with a master’s degree in athletic training from Seton Hall University. He has assisted performing artists from dance companies, major theme parks, and freestyle and breaking competitions. He is also an athletic trainer for the American Musical and Dramatic Academy and the Brooklyn Nets entertainment department. EO Ella Otto, MS, ATC, CPT Ms. Otto received a bachelor’s degree in movement science and a master’s degree in athletic training from Winona State University, where she also earned a minor in dance. An athletic training student intern with The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries in 2022, she has experience as a choreographer, dancer, and strength and conditioning coach for sports teams. She holds certifications in Graston Technique and personal training and as a corrective exercise specialist. MR Megan Richardson, MS, Dipl, Ac, LAc, ATC Per Diem Clinical Specialist Ms. Richardson is a certified athletic trainer and acupuncturist specializing in manual therapy, Pilates-based rehabilitation, and functional training for performing artists. She has provided backstage care to numerous dance companies and Broadway shows. She sits on the board of directors of the International Association for Dance Medicine and Science. BridgetteSaba Whitermore, DAT, PAM-Mc, LAT, ATC Dr. Whitermore holds a bachelor’s degree in athletic training with double minors in theater and dance from West Chester University of Pennsylvania, a performing arts medicine master’s certificate from Shenandoah University, and a doctorate in athletic training from Moravian University. She is also a certified Graston Technique specialist. Prior to joining the Harkness Center for Dance Injury team, Dr. Whitermore worked at Moravian University as a graduate teaching assistant for the master of athletic training program and practiced as an athletic trainer working with dancers, musicians, and cheer athletes. Patricia R. Cavaleri, PT, DPT Physical Therapist | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Cavaleri received her bachelor of science from the University of Wisconsin—Parkside and her doctor of physical therapy from Columbia University. She successfully completed the Performing Arts Physical Therapy Fellowship at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. She has a background in competition dance and is an instructor in full apparatus for classical Pilates. She has experience in treating people of all ages and has provided backstage physical therapy care for multiple Broadway shows. Sarah E. Edery-Altas, PT, DPT Clinical Specialist | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Edery-Altas received a bachelor’s degree in neuroscience and a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. She is currently in a PhD program at Seton Hall University’s Department of Interprofessional Health Sciences and Health Administration and is also in the University of Alberta’s Graduate Certificate in Pain Management program. Previously, she was the American Physical Therapy Association’s (APTA) performing arts special interest group research chair, and currently she is an APTA independent study course task force co-chair. Dr. Edery-Altas is a former professional ballet dancer, who danced as a member of both the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Boston Ballet. Heather Heineman, PT, DPT Physical Therapy Assistant Supervisor | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Heineman received her doctoral degree in physical therapy from Columbia University’s College of Physicians and Surgeons. Her experience in dance, aerial arts, yoga, and Pilates inform her manual therapy and Pilates-based rehabilitation. Joan Heeringa, PT, DPT Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Dr. Heeringa holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. Prior to her physical therapy education, she danced competitively in the Minneapolis area and earned a bachelor of arts in dance from Point Park University’s Conservatory of Performing Arts. She has performed professionally aboard Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, at various regional theaters, and in film and television. Dr. Heeringa has taken course work in advanced orthopedics, was a member of the Columbia University Dance Research team, and completed her final clinical student affiliation at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Mark Hall, MSPT Physical Therapy Supervisor, Fellowship Program Coordinator | Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapy Mr. Hunter-Hall specializes in manual therapy and Pilates-based rehabilitation and is a clinical educator. Mr. Hunter-Hall spent 12 years performing in musicals, including the Broadway production of Cats and the national tour of Oklahoma ! Rebecca Kesting, PT, DPT Dr. Kesting received a bachelor’s degree in dance and kinesiology from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. She completed her orthopedic physical therapy residency at NYU Steinhardt with clinical hours at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Marla Mcreynolds-Waldron, PT, DPT Dr. Mcreynolds-Waldron holds a doctorate in physical therapy from Columbia University. After receiving her undergraduate degree from California State University, Long Beach, in dance and exercise science, she achieved a successful dance career on Broadway, with Cirque du Soleil, on international tours, and in film and television. Marla is now pursuing orthopedic physical therapy with an emphasis on performing arts. In spring 2022, she completed the physical therapy student clinical affiliation at Harkness Center for Dance Injuries. Sarah Plumer-holzman, PT, DPT Dr. Plumer-Holzman holds a bachelor of fine arts from the North Carolina School of the Arts and a doctorate in physical therapy from the University of Washington. A board-certified orthopedic clinical specialist, she is also a certified functional manual therapist through the Institute of Physical Arts. Previously, Dr. Plumer-Holzman danced professionally in New York City for nine years, performing in both modern and contemporary ballet companies. She has studied with choreographer and anatomist Irene Dowd since 2000, assisting her for five years. Dr. Plumer-Holzman has been a dedicated yoga practitioner and teacher in the Ashtanga yoga tradition for more than 25 years and has taught anatomy and kinesiology for yoga teachers since 2006. Giovanna M. Salerno, PT, DPT Dr. Salerno earned her bachelor’s degree in exercise science with a minor in dance from West Chester University of Pennsylvania and her doctorate of physical therapy from Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences. She is a registered yoga teacher through Yoga Alliance and has completed postgraduate continuing education in orthopedic manual therapies including North American Institute of Orthopedic Manual Therapy, Graston Technique, and NeuroKinetic Therapy, as well as LSVT BIG training for Parkinson’s disease movement disorders. Her clinical interests include injury prevention and rehabilitation for dancers of all styles, musicians, performing artists, and runners of all ages. She is a lifelong dancer and has performed and presented choreographic works internationally as well as taught dance. Emily R. Sandow, PT, DPT Dr. Sandow holds a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and economics from NYU, and graduated with honors from Columbia University with a master’s and doctorate degree in physical therapy. Dr. Sandow is a frequent consultant on dancer health, is an instructor in NYU Steinhardt’s Department of Physical Therapy, and provides services to major dance companies and Broadway shows. Dr. Sandow trained in dance at the LaGuardia High School of Performing Arts and the School of American Ballet. Melvin Varghese, PT, DPT Dr. Varghese specializes in manual therapy and therapeutic exercise. He brings experience working in orthopedic settings as well as backstage on musicals. He received his doctor of physical therapy as well as his bachelor of science in health sciences from Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, New York. Dr. Varghese is also a trained Indian classical dancer. Administrative Staff Ahmad Amireh, Research Associate Mr. Ahireh is a recent graduate with bachelor’s degrees in biology and evolutionary anthropology from Duke University. He is pursuing a master’s degree in movement science and education at Columbia University, with research interests in biomechanics and neuromodulation. Before joining the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, he studied postural stability restoration following anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction surgery at the Michael W. Krzyzewski Human Performance Laboratory (K-Lab). He is a personal trainer and enjoys powerlifting and cycling. Ciara Byrne, Meg Bronson-Davidson, Nakida Dunn, and Stephanie Rivas, Medical Office Associates The medical office associates welcome patients to the Harkness Center, schedule appointments, and answer any questions you have about treatment. Jessica Mattsson, Program Coordinator Ms. Mattsson provides administrative support throughout the department. She holds dual bachelor’s degrees in sport management and communications from Rutgers University. She is also a CrossFit Level 1 Trainer and head trainer of Crossfit Kids at Crossfit 103 on Staten Island. Kristen Stevens, MA, Program Coordinator Ms. Stevens coordinates education programs and marketing. Previously, she worked as a professional ballet dancer in companies, including Norwegian National Ballet and BalletMet Columbus, and she is now on faculty at the American Ballet Theatre’s JKO School Children’s Division. She holds a master’s degree in arts administration from Teachers College, Columbia University. Our specialized team at NYU Langone’s has cared for many prominent performing artists in organizations and troupes around the world. We treat performers at their theater or studio and provide early interventions for orthopedic injuries. The performers we care for are also offered priority referrals into NYU Langone’s extensive medical network for further evaluation and care when necessary. Organizations and productions we’ve provided services to include the following. Stage Productions The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee The Addams Family The Apple Tree Avenue Q Jelly’s Last Jam The Capeman Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Cirque du Soleil Elf Evita Follies Footloose Girl From the North Country Grease Guys and Dolls How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying In the Heights The King and I La Cage aux Folles Les Misérables Little Shop of Horrors Man of La Mancha Matthew Bourne’s Swan Lake Miss Saigon Motown: The Musical The Music Man Newsies Once Promises, Promises Ragtime The Red Shoes Riverdance on Broadway Ruined Shrek The Musical The Who’s Tommy War Horse Dance and Theater Companies and Schools Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre American Academy of Ballet American Dance Festival Ballet Hispánico Ballet Tech Buglisi Dance Theatre Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet Complexions Contemporary Ballet The Conservatory of Dance at Purchase College, the State University of New York Dance Theatre of Harlem De La Guarda Donald Byrd/The Group Dorrance Dance Fuerza Bruta Hope Boykin Dance Hunter College The Joffrey Ballet The Juilliard School Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo Limón Dance Company Lucinda Childs Dance Mark Morris Dance Group Martha Graham Dance Company Merce Cunningham Dance Company The New Group The Parsons Dance Company Paul Taylor Dance Company Stephen Petronio Company Pilobolus Dance Theater The Public Theater Soho Rep STREB Extreme Action Company TheatreWorks Twyla Tharp Dance If you are interested in on-site care for your school, company, or production, please email Dance Injury Prevention Programs , we use our experience managing dance-related injuries to educate dancers about how to avoid injury and stay healthy. We accomplish this through programs and services that focus on assessing your risk of injury and diagnosing injuries at their earliest and most treatable stages. The success of our injury prevention programs has been proven on the most famed stages in the world. Not only have our experts protected and lengthened the careers of talented performing artists, we have given these dancers—and the professionals who train and care for them—the confidence and ability to accomplish their greatest professional goals. Appointments are required for all injury prevention services and programs listed below. To make an appointment, please call Injury Prevention Assessment The injury prevention assessment program offers a free evaluation that aims to prevent dance injuries before they occur. You meet with an athletic trainer or physical therapist who observes your dance technique, evaluates your strength and flexibility, and reviews your medical and nutritional history. At the end of the assessment, your licensed clinician provides you with an individually tailored exercise regimen that includes recommendations for technique modification, training strategies, and footwear that can reduce the risk of injury. We offer in-person visits and at different times during the week. Injury prevention assessments are available annually (minimum age 10 years). Injury Prevention Lectures and Workshops Injury prevention lectures and workshops address all aspects of injury prevention, including cross-training, warm-up techniques, nutrition and hydration, pointe readiness, and environmental safety. These offerings can be tailored for varied audiences, including dancers, producers, teachers, parents, company managers, and healthcare professionals. To schedule or inquire about a workshop for your organization, please complete our information request form and email it to Harkness Center Healthy Dancer Initiative The Harkness Center Healthy Dancer Initiative, launched in early 2018, provides subsidized movement sessions and free wellness workshops to professional dancers who have financial need. The program aims to encourage a sound, holistic approach to self-care and aid in career longevity. To achieve these goals, Harkness Center is partnering with the Mark Morris Dance Group, Gibney, and for the first time in 2025, Broadway Dance Center. The next six-month term takes place from January 2 to June 30, 2025. The application period is open from October 15 to November 15, 2024. Please visit the Gibney Broadway Dance Center websites for more information. Raked Stage Seminars Raked stage seminars provide performers with information on how to work safely on nontraditional dance surfaces. These may include a raked, or angled, stage, as well as hard, soft, hot, cold, or wet surfaces. Information about working safely in other performance settings—such as on a ceiling, in a pool, or in the air while using a harness—is also provided. Pointe Readiness Program Ballet dancers are typically considered ready to use the pointe technique, which requires toe shoes, at 12 years of age. However, musculoskeletal maturity and motor skill development vary greatly. The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries’ pointe readiness program consists of a series of dynamic tests. These can provide an accurate estimation to parents and dance company leaders of a youth’s readiness to safely begin pointe work. Annual Health Screenings We provide annual health screenings to dance companies and theater and entertainment organizations. Each performer receives a full, activity-specific functional movement evaluation, individualized report, and instructions on how to address his or her particular health risks. The consulting organization receives a summary report that identifies the dancers’ overall risk of injury. We also provide suggestions on ways to keep dancers healthy that can reduce the organization’s costs in the long term. Ergonomic Evaluations Ergonomic evaluations identify risk factors associated with the physical and psychosocial aspects of the dance environment. Equipment modifications and training recommendations are provided. , you are treated by experts in care and rehabilitation. Members of your care team may include , who can help you regain your independence after a concussion; , who can address cognitive changes due to concussion; , who treat musculoskeletal injuries related to concussion; , who address any concerns related to the emotional and physical impact of a concussion; speech–language pathologists , who offer therapies to maximize written, verbal language, memory, and attention skills; vestibular therapists , who can help improve dizziness and balance issues related to concussion; and pediatric specialists , who are dedicated to treating children and young adults with concussion. Dina Pagnotta, PT, MPT, MPH Director of Strategic Initiatives Ms. Pagnotta is responsible for daily operations at the Concussion Center, including policy development and implementation, educational endeavors, marketing, research, and center expansion. As director of strategic initiatives, Ms. Pagnotta supports the development of new projects and programming within NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation and the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. She received a master of physical therapy degree from Hahnemann University (which has since merged into Drexel University) and a master of public health degree from Columbia University. Mara F. Sproul, MPA, RN-BC, CRRN Ms. Sproul is a registered nurse with extensive experience in pediatric, geriatric, and cardiac rehabilitation and nursing administration. She has a master’s degree in public administration from NYU and is certified in rehabilitation nursing and geriatric nursing. In her role, she is responsible for day-to-day interactions with patients and facilitates various aspects of their clinical care, as well as helps with the overall development of the Concussion Center. Victoria Juanito, RN, BSN Clinical Coordinator Ms. Juanito is a registered nurse who has experience in clinical and managerial roles, including as a training officer in a military hospital. She has worked as a school nurse, in a facility for adults with cerebral palsy and other disabilities, and, most recently, in several neurology clinics in an academic hospital. She is responsible for day-to-day patient interactions and assists in various aspects of their clinical care. Matt Manu, MPA, ATC Senior Program Coordinator Mr. Manu is a certified athletic trainer with experience in the secondary school and professional setting. As the Concussion Center, he works to advance clinical programming, support ongoing research, and expand professional and community education including local academic institutions, youth leagues, and professional athletic leagues. He serves as the liaison to our school and community partners and as well as our athletic training program. Occupational Therapy Kellianne Arnella, MS, OTR/L, CSRS, CDRS Neurological Clinical Specialist-Occupational Therapy Ms. Arnella specializes in treating patients who have vision issues following traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and concussion. She works to determine and individualized treatment plan for each patient. Through skill remediation and individual strategy use, she helps patients successfully return to their pre-injury habits, routines, and roles. Holly Cohen, OTR/L, SCEM, ATP, CDRS Occupational Therapist Ms. Cohen specializes in the use assistive technology to improve an individual’s access of a computer or smart device, increase their functional independence, and safety in all environments. Elizabeth J. Martori, OTR/L Vision Clinical Specialist | Occupational Therapy Based on Long Island, Ms. Martori specializes in vision rehabilitation for people who have concussion and traumatic brain injury. She helps improve visual perceptual and motor skills, including reading, writing, computer use, and other work- and school-related activities. Margaret A. Waskiewicz, OTR/L, OTD Unit Supervisor | Occupational Therapy, Neurologic Occupational Therapy Ms. Waskiewicz specializes in vision rehabilitation, helping people who have concussion and traumatic brain injury resume their usual routines, including self-care, home management, and work and school activities. Neuropsychology and Psychology Amanda Childs, PhD Senior Psychologist Dr. Childs specializes in rehabilitation and health psychology with a focus on the treatment of concussion, traumatic brain injury, and oncology. She provides neuropsychological assessments, cognitive rehabilitation, and individual and group psychotherapy. She completed a postdoctoral fellowship in Advanced Rehabilitation Research Training (AART) at Rusk Rehabilitation. Ilana S. Grunwald, PhD Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Grunwald provides neuropsychological and psychological evaluations and treatment for individuals who have a wide variety of medical issues including concussion, TBI, and stroke. She works to help people improve their adjustment, acceptance, and coping with complicated issues to live better lives. She specializes in working with individuals who have vocal disorders. Kenneth D. Hartline, PsyD Psychology Dr. Hartline is a board-certified clinical neuropsychologist and supervisor of psychology at Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. He specializes in the assessment of traumatic brain injury, concussion, and other neurological conditions in children, adolescents and young adults. Dr. Hartline received his Doctor of Psychology degree in clinical psychology from Pepperdine University in Malibu, CA. He completed an APA-accredited internship at Rusk Rehabilitation and a two-year postdoctoral fellowship in pediatric clinical neuropsychology at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, where he trained in pediatric and young adult concussion, traumatic brain injury and epilepsy. Prior to returning to NYU Langone, he was a clinical neuropsychologist at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles and an Assistant Professor of Neurology at the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. DL Donna M. Langenbahn, PhD Coordinator, Outpatient Psychology Services | Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Langenbahn provides neuropsychological assessment and treatment to people dealing with cognitive, emotional, and behavioral issues related to brain injury and concussion. She has received the John G. Gianutsos Award for Special Educational Contributions from Rusk Rehabilitation and was named a distinguished member of the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine, which awarded her the Elizabeth and Sidney Licht Award in recognition of excellence in scientific writing in rehabilitation medicine in 2012. Yuen Shan C. Lee, PhD Senior Psychologist | Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Dr. Lee specializes in the treatment of concussion and traumatic brain injury. She provides neuropsychological assessments, cognitive rehabilitation, and individual and group psychotherapy. She received the Dr. Lee and Linda Rosenbaum Family Award through Yeshiva University for excellence in clinical health and served as an Asian American Psychological Association leadership fellow. William Lu, PsyD Senior Psychologist | Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation Psychology Dr. Lu’s special interests include traumatic brain injury, sleep and memory processing, mindfulness, neuropsychological testing, and cognitive remediation. Dr. Lu has published in the areas of traumatic brain injury and sleep and memory processing. He completed a postdoctoral fellowship in rehabilitation research at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. Bonnie Marks, PsyD Dr. Marks specializes in rehabilitation psychology, traumatic brain injury, concussion, sports psychology, and mindfulness for stress management. She works in the Brain Injury Day Treatment program and performs concussion evaluations. She has received the Dr. Alfred H. Schwartz and Iris Nelson-Schwartz Humanitarian Award from the National Rehabilitation Association, Metropolitan Chapter. David McCabe, PhD Dr. McCabe provides neuropsychological assessment and treatment for people who have TBI and other neurological conditions impacting cognitive, behavioral, and psychological functioning. He provides cognitive remediation and psychotherapy, in individual and group formats. Dr. McCabe completed a two-year postdoctoral fellowship in clinical neuropsychology at Henry Ford Health System in Detroit, Michigan. Jamie Cepeda, DPT Senior Physical Therapist Dr. Cepeda treats people who have concussions and other types of brain injuries. He evaluates their needs, helps develop a treatment plan, and assists people as they learn the skills they need to live independently and return to their normal activities. Bretton K. Eisenhardt, PT, DPT Staff Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Eisenhardt is a board-certified orthopedic specialist with a passion for exercise and fitness. He completed an orthopedic residency program through New York University and enjoys guiding patients to their best possible health. He utilizes his knowledge in integrative lifestyle management and special interest in yoga to assist patients in their recovery process from concussion-related injuries. TI Teresa Iodice-Dadin, MA, PT, CCTT Ms. Iodice-Dadin is a certified craniofacial and cervical therapist. She specializes in treating disorders of the head and neck, including headache and temporomandibular joint disorders, related to concussion and other injuries. She performs advanced manual therapy with osteopathic training. Mira T. Kaufman, PT, DPT Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Kaufman is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. She has a special interest in working with people recovering from concussion-related injuries and limitations. She helps them get back to their normal activities and responsibilities, as well as sports and exercise. Daniel A. Peredo, PT, DPT Senior Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy Dr. Peredo is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. He has a special interest in the management and treatment of post-concussion symptoms and related injuries. He enjoys assisting those with post-concussion symptoms return to their daily activities and passions, including sports and exercise. Clinical Specialist | Physical Therapy, Sports Physical Therapy, TMJ Physical Therapy Dr. Ross is a board-certified orthopedic specialist and a physical therapy clinical specialist. He is committed to helping individuals recover from post-concussion symptoms and has a special interest in athletes seeking to return to their sport. Mark Schulingkamp, DPT, OCS Dr. Schulingkamp is a board-certified orthopedic specialist. He helps people who have experienced concussion return to work, school, sports, and other activities. Pamela Singer, MSW, LCSW Senior Social Worker Ms. Singer has a master’s degree in social work from NYU. Ms. Singer has spoken extensively about the emotional issues inherent to brain injury and concussion, as well as the importance of groups in rehabilitation. Speech–Language Pathology Elizabeth E. Galletta, PhD Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Dr. Galletta focuses on patient-reported symptoms in the evaluation of individuals with acquired speech–language and cognitive–communication disorders. As a certified brain injury specialist trainer (CBIST) she contributes to a team of neurogenic speech–language pathologists treating patients who have persistant post-concussion symptoms. She mentors clinicians, students, and volunteer interns on topics including group treatment/community groups, aphasia, and cognitive rehabilitation. Her research focuses on combining methods that promote neuroplasticity with behavioral treatment. Karen Gendal, MA, CCC-SLP Clinical Specialist Ms. Gendal’s expertise is in the evaluation and treatment of people with a variety of motor, speech, language, and cognitive communication impairments, including those with concussion. Shap Shadravan, MS, CCC-SLP, CBIS Ms. Shadravan is a clinical specialist on Rusk Rehabilitation’s speech–language Pathology team in both the inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation setting. Her clinical experience includes the evaluation and treatment of patients with neurogenic communication impairments as well as patients with medically complex and cardiopulmonary diagnoses. Vestibular Therapy Joseph T. Adams, DPT Physical Therapy, Neurologic Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Adams is a board-certified specialist in neurologic rehabilitation with advanced training in vestibular rehabilitation and has been working with patients with dizziness and vertigo due to head injuries for over 10 years. He is actively involved in clinical research on brain injury rehabilitation, vestibular outcome measures, reactive balance, post-concussion syndrome, and early mobilization for patients after brain tumor resection. He is the author of Vestibular Rehabilitation for the NCS Exam , and lectures regularly as an adjunct professor. Natalie Catterall, PT, DPT Senior II Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Catterall treats vestibular dysfunctions following concussions as well as other brain injuries. Her individualized treatment approach aims to improve dizziness and balance. She is dedicated to assisting her patients in improving towards previous level of function through her patient- centered care. KC Katie Ann Connors, PT, DPT Dr. Connors treats people who have a variety of neurological injuries, including neck pain, and helps them return to activity after concussion. She practices in the outpatient department at Rusk Rehabilitation. Tara Denham, MA, PT Outpatient Program Manager Ms. Denham specializes in vestibular therapy for people with concussions. In addition, she supervises therapists who treat people in need of vestibular therapy and developed the vestibular concussion program at NYU Langone. She is involved in research about concussions and vestibular dysfunction and lectures nationally and internationally on the topic of vestibular rehabilitation. Jennifer L. Fay, DPT Clinical Specialist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Dr. Fay specializes in treating people who have concussions and other types of brain injuries. She works with patients and families, educating them about the condition and assisting patients with their return to work, school, or sports. She is the lead clinician on a research project related to concussions and vestibular dysfunction. Nicolina Keneipp, PT, DPT, NCS Dr. Keneipp is a board-certified neurologic clinical specialist and has advanced training in vestibular rehabilitation. She treats vestibular dysfunctions following concussions as well as other brain injuries. She is dedicated to assisting her patients improve function and return to meaningful activities with an individualized, patient-centered treatment approach. Artmis D. Youssefnia, PT Senior Physical Therapist | Physical Therapy, Vestibular Therapy Ms. Youssefnia treats people experiencing vestibular dysfunction after concussions and other types of brain injuries. She is a board-certified geriatric specialist and has advanced training in working with older adults. She helps people return to normal activities and evaluates, treats, and educates patients and families about the condition. Akirrah Cooper, DACM, ATC Dr. Cooper received a bachelor’s degree in athletic training from Dominican College and is a registered and licensed athletic trainer. She has worked in many different clinical settings, helping to expand her knowledge of various methods and treatment plans used in sports rehabilitation programs. Ms. Cooper is also licensed in acupuncture and herbal medicine by the State of New York and is recognized as a Doctor of Chinese Medicine by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine. She also graduated from Pacific College of Oriental Medicine and is skilled in all primary Chinese medicine