929-455-2740 Cardiac and Vascular Fax 929-455-2750 Orthopedics, Podiatry, and Rheumatology Phone Orthopedics, Podiatry, and Rheumatology Fax 929-455-2020 All Other Specialties Phone 929-455-2700 All Other Specialties Fax 929-455-2770 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Arts Pavilion 8714 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-630-8600 718-630-8615 NYU Langone Brooklyn OB/GYN Associates—4th Avenue 10031 Fourth Avenue, Suite 1J, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-921-0106 NYU Langone Brooklyn OB/GYN Associates—60th Street 757 60th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11220 929-455-6517 929-455-9418 NYU Langone OB/GYN Associates—Midwood 1220 Avenue P, Brooklyn, NY, 11236 718-975-7802 929-455-9049 NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York—Brooklyn 16 Court Street, 27th Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11241 718-935-9766 NYU Langone OB/GYN Associates—Great Neck 600 Northern Boulevard, Suite 106, Great Neck, NY, 11021 516-466-4128 NYU Langone Huntington Medical Group—Commack 2171 Jericho Turnpike, Suite 202, Commack, NY, 11725 631-425-8181 NYU Langone Medical Associates—530 Hicksville Road 530 Hicksville Road, Bethpage, NY, 11714 516-240-7940 NYU Langone Reproductive Specialists of New York—Mineola 200 Old Country Road, Suite 350, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-739-2100 NYU Langone Women’s Health Associates—New Hyde Park 2500 Marcus Avenue, Suite 105, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-358-1200 159 East 53rd Street, 5th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 Physician Appointments 646-754-3300 917-829-2071 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care West Side 355 West 52nd Street, New York, NY, 10019 646-754-2100 646-754-2585 159 East 53rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY, 10022 212-263-8990 212-263-8827 Fertility Center—NoMad 109 West 27th Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY, 10001 212-263-0040 929-455-9569 Joan H. & Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing 171 Delancey Street, 2nd Floor, New York, NY, 10002 929-455-2600 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Penn District 360 West 31st Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY, 10001 646-987-3436 646-293-1441 NYU Langone Obstetrics & Gynecology Associates 646-754-9803 111 Broadway, New York, NY, 10006 Urgent Care Phone 646-461-2544 NYU Langone Gynecology Associates—New Dorp 97 New Dorp Lane, Staten Island, NY, 10306 718-987-9888 718-987-9882 NYU Langone Astoria Medical Associates 23-18 31st Street, Suite 300, Astoria, NY, 11105 718-204-2200 ‘NBC News Daily’ Anchor Shares Her Fibroid Journey Five Things to Know About the New Birth Control Opill AI Tool Accurately Answers Questions on Gynecologic Cancers New Oncologist Combines Clinical & Operations Roles NYU Langone Implements New App to Address Maternal Mortality Woman to Become Mom After Fertility-Sparing Cancer Treatment NYU Langone Hosts Baby Shower on Long Island for Moms-To-Be Woman Welcomes First Child After Having 26 Fibroids Removed Our Team Approach to Robotic Surgery NYU Langone’s medical support staff is specially trained in assisting with robotic procedures at the Robotic Surgery Center. These operating room nurses, physician assistants, and surgical technicians are present at all times during every robotic procedure we perform. Our surgical support staff has received specialized education in the set-up and operation of our surgical systems, and they work with our surgeons on a daily basis. They also receive periodic training sessions, including training on any equipment or instrument that has been newly adapted for robotic-assisted surgeries. In addition, our physician assistants use their extensive medical and surgical experience to ensure efficiency and safety during procedures and throughout pre- and postoperative care. Our physician assistant coordinator, Suzannah Sorin, PA-C, MPAS, has been working with the Robotic Surgery Center since its establishment. She has participated in more than 1,500 robotic surgeries in various specialties at NYU Langone and assists in teaching robotic surgery to NYU Grossman School of Medicine residents. Our team of highly experienced anesthesiologists have perfected specialized anesthesia techniques for robotic-assisted surgeries. These include improved patient positioning to prevent complications, maximizing lung function during surgery, and techniques to minimize pain after surgery. Your gift today supports the next generation of leaders in medicine and our historic commitment to provide full-tuition scholarships for all MD degree students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Tomorrow’s Medical Leaders Deserve a Chance to Thrive Across the country, 71 percent of graduates leave medical school with an average of $194,000 in student loans, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges. Faced with this financial burden, students are choosing more lucrative specialties over primary care or forgoing a medical degree altogether. By taking tuition off the table for all of our MD degree students, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is sending a clear signal to young people considering a career in medicine: medical school is now within your reach—regardless of your financial means. We are committed to improving affordability and access to a world-class education. Scholarships guarantee that the very best applicants have the opportunity to obtain the training and support they deserve. With your help, we can continue to cultivate a vibrant medical community and prepare the next generation of graduates to thrive. The cost of medical school can deprive our profession—and those we serve—of entire cohorts of talented people. But we are building a robust scholarship program that enables many gifted, disadvantaged students to attend our school. Dean and CEO, NYU Langone Together, We’re Making It Happen In 2018, announced that we would be the first top-ranked medical school in the nation to award all MD degree students full-tuition scholarships. We could not have made this promise to our students without the generosity of all who have contributed to scholarships over the years. But we aren’t done yet. Only with your support today can we sustain our scholarship program for tomorrow’s outstanding students. Help us continue to dramatically reduce medical student debt in perpetuity, so future doctors can pursue their true passions and make a difference through medicine. Support Medical School Scholarships Help us deliver the best, most compassionate care for children and families. KiDS of NYU Langone helps find answers to a simple but profound question: What can we do to make health care better for children and families? It might mean sponsoring a fun activity from a playful child life expert who knows how to make a sick kid smile. It might mean equipping an operating room with state-of-the-art technology. Or it might mean inspiring an entire institution with a new vision of transformative change. Whatever it takes, KiDS is ready to lead the way. Your Support Can Make the Difference KiDS has come far from its origins as a small, grassroots organization of doctors, parents, and supporters passionate about improving children’s health. In the 25 years since its founding, KiDS has helped build a state-of-the-art pediatric emergency care facility, contributed to the launch of the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, and paved the way for the 2018 opening of the . Thanks to KiDS and the KiDS Advisory Board, we are stronger than ever and positioned to make a lasting impact on children’s health in New York City and beyond. Your support of KiDS helps ensure that children and families will receive the medical care and support they need. Transforming Care for Children and Families The new home for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital will be the culmination of a sweeping transformation in our children’s services and will allow us to continue to dramatically expand our comprehensive efforts to care for New York City’s families. The Story of KiDS of NYU Langone Support for KiDS  provides world-class, family-centered care; funds research for childhood illnesses; and fosters therapeutic and recreational activities for patients and their siblings. If you would like to make a gift by mail, please send it to: Stacey Chait Help Make Healthcare Better for Children and Families Your gift will support medical students pursuing a career in primary care. The Future of Primary Care New York State—and the entire nation—needs many more primary care physicians, but all too often, medical students must choose different, higher-paying specialties because of the realities of student debt. We owe it to them, and to the communities who need their service, to put a career in primary care within their reach. That’s why NYU launched NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine in close collaboration with NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. New York State’s First Primary Care–Medical School NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine is a new medical school on the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island campus in Mineola, Long Island; its sole mission and purpose is to train and graduate outstanding primary care physicians. The only school of its kind in New York State, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine will help address the shortage of primary care physicians state- and nationwide by offering full-tuition scholarships to all; by providing well-rounded courses, clerkships, and learning experiences focused entirely on primary care; and by accelerating students’ education through our three-year curriculum and other innovative features. Help Provide an Education in Primary Care That’s Second to None Your gift will help NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine train primary care physicians who will deliver the very best care to patients and who will be prepared to become leaders in their local community and beyond. Support the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Your gift to FACES helps our specialists make major strides toward a cure for epilepsy, while providing exceptional clinical care, education, awareness, and support to all who come to us for care. More than 2 million Americans live with epilepsy, a debilitating condition with no cure. To work toward a future free of epilepsy, scientists need funding that allows them to continue their pioneering studies. In the meantime, patients and families need excellent care and support to ensure the best possible quality of life. The heart of FACES is people: our doctors, nurses, neuropsychologists, scientists, technicians, and administrators—and most importantly the people we care for, their families, and friends. FACES (Finding a Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) enables faculty and staff at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Epilepsy Center to advance exceptional clinical care, cutting-edge research, ongoing patient education, and community support programs for children, adults, families, and caregivers who live with epilepsy and seizures. Funding through FACES gives our experts the ability to launch significant studies, such as an exploration of the immune system’s role in epilepsy. It allows them to develop new methods of delivering medications directly to the brain and fosters their efforts to devise the latest surgical techniques. At the same time, FACES improves quality of life for patients and families through special opportunities like Game Day, need-based college scholarships for patients, the Peace of Mind no-cost lecture series, the annual Epilepsy Conference, educational DVDs, parent network support program, and much more. Your generosity toward FACES means we can move even more quickly toward a cure for epilepsy and seizures, while providing the best care and support to our patients today. To learn more about how your gift to FACES is used for research, education, and clinical and community support programs, please visit our page on the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center’s site FACES Email Sign Up Support FACES Discover the Power of Philanthropy for Kids Provide hope for thousands of kids and families. Your support creates a healthier future The generosity of our community leads to tremendous breakthroughs in care, research, and medical innovation. We can change lives together and pave the way for a brighter future for children everywhere. Greatest Need Help us take on the most pressing challenges and lead the way in pediatric medicine. Sala Institute for Child & Family Centered Care Ensure every child and family receives personalized, high-quality, safe care. Join us to support their health and well-being. Make a child’s hospital stay a positive experience with resources focused on therapeutic play, comfort, and self-expression before and after treatment. Everyone at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital is dedicated to delivering the best medical, surgical, and supportive care to every child. Dr. Catherine S. Manno Chair, Department of Pediatrics Wish Lists Help us provide the little things that help kids feel like kids. Make sure they have what they need to thrive within and outside our hospital walls. Toys, Games, Art Supplies, and More Coping Kit and Sensory items Skyline Studio Bingo Prizes Fundraise for Hassenfeld Children's Hospital Encourage your friends and family to support a cause close to your heart. Create your page Honor a Doctor or Nurse Give back to the people who work tirelessly to keep our kids healthy and safe. Create a Fundraiser Launch your own fundraiser focused on elements of care most important to you. Hassenfeld has changed my life, has changed my daughter’s life, has changed so many other kids' lives – all for the better – and in a way that there's no way to describe. Kathrin Parent The Impact of Giving You can make a real difference in children’s lives. See how friends like you fuel our groundbreaking work. 540K outpatient visits a year 400 pediatric doctors providing lifesaving care 100% of children receive supportive care new children's hospital in NYC in over 15 years Every donation makes a difference at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. We do things that make a big difference for kids and their families in our community. Susie Block Casdin Co-Chair, KiDS of NYU Langone Learn more about Hassenfeld Children's Hospital > Support Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Give thanks to our heroes on the frontline. Nurses are at the core of every positive care experience, and there’s a reason why. They’re at the frontlines of it all, from the most complex surgeries to the quickest follow-up visits. Nurses are there to help you celebrate new life coming into the world, support you through a new diagnosis and treatment, help you manage ongoing illness and comfort families dealing with loss.  Whether your stay lasts 30 minutes or a month, they help keep you as healthy and happy as possible—all while making you feel special. More than expert health care professionals, nurses are flawless communicators, savvy navigators, thoughtful advocates, and even top-flight playmates (for those younger patients). At NYULH, we have the best nurses in the country.Every day, our nurse show up focused on our patients and looking for ways to continuously improve what we do so that our patients receive the exceptional care they deserve. Debra Albert, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC Chief Nursing Officer and Senior Vice President for Patient Care Services, Lerner Director of Health Promotion In recent years, the emotional and psychological well-being of our nurses has been challenged like never before. With this is mind, NYU Langone has made it a priority to implement critical intervention and supportive services for our frontline staff. Show your gratitude for all that our nurses do by making a donation to our Nursing Wellness & Resiliency Fund. Your gift will help develop innovative infrastructure, programming, and resources to support our heroes on the frontlines. By building the foundational support of healthier nurses, we can ensure their mental and emotional health. Support the Dedicated Nurses of NYU Langone Health You can help write the next chapter by supporting full-tuition scholarships for all future students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine It’s a dream come true: every MD degree student’s tuition is covered in full through philanthropic support. On August 16, 2018, NYU Grossman School of Medicine surprised students and their families with the life-changing news that every student enrolled in our MD degree program will receive full-tuition scholarship. The announcement marked an unforgettable first chapter in our students’ medical careers, but the story isn’t over. Our Tuition Free initiative is funded entirely through the generosity of our alumni and friends, and we need your support. Make a gift today to ensure that all future classes of students receive the same scholarship opportunities, regardless of financial need or medical specialty. Support Tuition Free Scholarships Support advancements in head and neck cancer research. A letter from Susan Namm Spencer This year, Bill would have turned 100, and we are proud that his generosity of spirit lives on through the Spencer Fund. Fifteen years ago, we began fundraising to establish the William I. Spencer Fund for Head and Neck Cancer at NYU Langone. Since then, the Spencer Fund has raised more than $2 million to support impressive progress at the Head and Neck Center. To mark Bill’s centennial, I hope you will join me to make one final gift to the Spencer Fund in his memory. Your gift will strengthen Bill’s legacy and enable the NYU Langone Head and Neck Center to make an even greater difference in the lives of patients and their families facing this terrible disease. To date, support of friends like you has helped: Expand the multidisciplinary team from 8 to 45 physicians, including six full-time surgeons in addition to oncologists, pathologists, radiologists, and additional support staff. Increase overall patient volume more than tenfold. Introduce cutting-edge procedures and improve patient safety and quality of care. Build research and clinical trial capacity to advance personalized medicine and surgical techniques. Establish head and neck fellowships to train the next generation of experts. Treat underserved populations at Bellevue Hospital and in Haiti, India, and Kenya. Thank you. Warmest regards, Susan Namm Spencer Support Head and Neck Cancer Research Your support of NYU Langone helps bring out the best in our doctors, researchers, and students. We’re Giving New Yorkers What They Expect—The Very Best At NYU Langone, we never stop pushing ourselves. Our patients depend on it, our leadership expects it, and our people—doctors, students, scientists, and supporters—embrace it. It’s what we’ve always done—but over the past decade, we’ve taken it to another level. Our commitment has made us a leader in healthcare and earned us the highest rankings, including No. 1 in New York and No. 3 in the nation on ’s “Best Hospitals.” NYU School Grossman of Medicine is ranked No. 2 out of 185 schools nationwide for research by ’ “Best Medical Schools.” We’ve been hailed by publications including Harvard Business Review Modern Healthcare as a model for the hospital of the 21st century. And, most importantly of all, our care is better than ever: for the past five years, we’ve received top rankings for overall patient safety and quality of care from Vizient, Inc., formerly the University HealthSystem Consortium. Some might look at that progress and call it a mission accomplished. We call it a good start. With Your Support, There’s So Much More We Can Do This is one of the most remarkable times in NYU Langone’s history, but our vision for the future holds even more promise. We’re breaking down the barriers to high-quality healthcare by establishing more community-based clinics and practices. We’re committing $750 million to accelerate research breakthroughs in cancer, cardiovascular disease, and other epidemics. And we’re supporting the next generation of leaders in medicine by providing full-tuition scholarships for all MD degree students, regardless of financial need. When you give to the Excellence in Research, Education, and Care fund, you’re advancing our undeniable momentum—and helping us transform medicine for people in New York City and around the world. Your gift will help us meet the most critical needs and discover new avenues of research, education, and care. Support Excellence in Research, Education, and Care Help our specialists pioneer research, build important global programs, and deliver tailored, compassionate services to every patient and family in need. Cancer Patients Need a Cure and the Best Care Now For the more than 1.6 million Americans diagnosed with cancer every year, the best outcomes will depend on access to the latest treatments. Since the 1970s, five-year survival rates across all cancers have jumped from 49 to 68 percent because of innovations in care—the result of groundbreaking laboratory and clinical research. But a steady decline in federal research dollars means that crucial questions about how to eradicate cancer remain unanswered. Our Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center is one of the few institutions in the Northeast designated a National Cancer Institute cancer center, and our faculty and staff are poised to make great strides in research and care. In an unprecedented partnership, we’re collaborating with the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology on numerous cancer research projects. This global alliance will translate into enhanced detection, diagnosis, and treatment for oncology patients everywhere. We’re also focused on transforming lives today. More than 18 percent of our patients participate in therapeutic clinical trials and research studies—exceeding the national average of 4 percent—and, because of our new Cancer Clinical Trials Office, that number is steadily increasing. Clinical trials fast-track innovations from bench to bedside, while making sure everyone we care for has access to the most promising medical advances now. I believe that we’re going to cure cancer, if not within my lifetime, then within the lifetimes of young clinicians that we’re recruiting. We researchers are optimistic… we are at the dawn of a new era of personalized medicine. Benjamin Neel, MD Director, Perlmutter Cancer Center The generosity of our partners and friends has a tangible impact on the lives of those we serve and their families—and on the future of care. Ensure the Best Care for Those We Serve Today at Perlmutter Cancer Center Your gift will support our groundbreaking efforts to better understand and treat bone, joint, and connective tissue disorders and injuries. Great Orthopedic Care Is Now More Crucial Than Ever Musculoskeletal diseases and conditions are the leading cause of disability in the United States. One in four Americans experiences chronic back pain alone. And the full spectrum of orthopedic issues costs our nation a staggering $874 billion annually in treatment and lost wages. These health and financial burdens will only continue to grow as our population ages. Because of You, We’re Leading the Way We want every person with orthopedic problems to live a full life, free of disability and pain. With more than 150 years of leadership in the field, NYU Langone’s faculty and staff in the musculoskeletal arena practice truly integrated, personalized medicine by working collaboratively to fine-tune medications and treatment approaches in real time. In just the past three years, our caregivers and scientists translated research findings into clinical care that reduced patient readmission by half. We reached No. 4 nationally for orthopedics in ’s most recent “Best Hospitals” rankings, and we are among the top 10 recipients of National Institutes of Health funding in this area. We are also New York’s only hospital to rank among the top 10 nationally in every musculoskeletal subspecialty. It takes a whole host of people—not just surgeons—to provide truly comprehensive patient-centered orthopedic care—everyone from nurses to the security guard at the front door when you arrive for surgery. Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD Orthopedic Surgeon Your generosity will allow us to continue to excel in research, education, and care—for the good of our patients and patients worldwide. Support Orthopedic Care at NYU Langone Team NYU Langone is running the NYCRUNS Brooklyn Half Marathon for the people of Brooklyn. We’re fundraising for programs in the borough focused on cancer prevention, early detection, patient navigation, and more. I work in cancer research and support the mission of trying to raise funding for the field. I have seen many people who had their cancer caught too late and understand the importance of early detection. Eli W. In 2018, I was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and treated at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. I’m running with For All Who Fight, the nonprofit my sisters and I founded, to raise funds for the health system that helped me so much. Marguerite R. I’m running for my aunt, who was recently diagnosed with cancer. Elizabeth N. I am a native of Brooklyn and a social worker in NYU Langone’s Division of Gastroenterology. I want to help in any way I can to support cancer programs. Danielle S. I was supposed to run the NYC Marathon last year but had to defer due to a stress fracture injury in both shins. I am just getting back into running thanks to my physical therapist at NYU Langone. Alyssa M. As a physical therapist, I am always interested in opportunities to promote health and wellness—all for a good cause. This is a perfect chance to do both. Jonathan L. If you’re not running, you can still support our cause. Join these incredible advocates in creating a healthier future for the people of Brooklyn. Support Team NYU Langone Redefine Healthcare Support for Kids We’re transforming how children and their families are supported during medical treatment. Help Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care deliver innovative support services, family partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives that advance the health and wellbeing of children and families at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. The Sala Difference in Action Meet Zemi, a five-year-old who was supported by the Sala child life team during her cancer fight. Safer Care Made Possible with Peer Coaching Learn how safety coaches help Sala ensure exceptional patient care practices. A Shared Commitment to Future Patients Our campaign chair highlights the importance of giving back to help children and families in need. New York Post Highlights the Power of Sala Institute Give to Our Greatest Need Ensure that every child and every family receives personalized, high-quality, safe care. A Guiding Light We partner with young patients, their families, and healthcare providers for hope and healing. Watch Other Ways to Donate You can support Sala Institute in many different ways including credit card , or see these instructions to donate by check, wire transfer, or donor advised fund. Sala is an array of people, services, resources, and knowledge that lets us enhance the medical care we give to children. Jason Fisher, MD Director, Children’s Surgical Services, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital See how friends like you make a difference for the kids and families we serve. of patients with complex and chronic illnesses benefit from Sala care 32K patient encounters by Sala child life specialists 100+ physicians-in-training completed pediatric resident communication curriculum 1 of 25 top children’s hospitals studying widespread health inequities Learn more about our work in the 2023 Sala Institute Impact Report Last month, my daughter had to go for another endoscopy, and the Sala team worked for weeks leading up to it to prepare her. Our thanks extend to all of those who are supporting Sala. Sara Fundraise for Sala Honor a Sala Professional Learn more about Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care > Support Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care NYU Langone Health welcomes all media opportunities and requests. Our interview and filming policies help to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and to protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone. A member of the media includes anyone engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums. Recognized mediums used to disseminate news and information include TV, radio, newspaper, magazine, books, documentary film/video productions, the internet, and various wireless delivery formats. Also included, but not limited to, are those supporting the press, including camera crews, set-up crews, lighting crews, makeup artists, and photographers. Learn more about our interview and filming policies below. Media Requests for Patient Information NYU Langone is committed to ensuring the privacy and safety of our patients, and this policy governs when a member of the media requests information about a patient. Purpose The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and comply with local, state, and federal laws relating to patient privacy as well as to ensure that if patient information is provided to the media, it is consistent with all other existing or future medical center policies. Guidelines The following guidelines will apply to all NYU Langone faculty and staff and to all members of the media engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums requesting information about a patient: Requests for patient information by a representative of the media must be made through the Office of Communications and Marketing by calling the Office of Communications and Marketing Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at 212-404-3555 . Requests may also be made via email to . After-hours and weekend requests should also be directed to . A recorded message will give the phone number of the public relations manager on duty. General patient condition information may only be provided by the Office of Communications and Marketing, and then only within the limitations imposed by the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). HIPAA generally requires the patient or their personal representative to consent to disclosures. In order to obtain this information, a patient name is required. Medical conditions will be reported as follows: Good, Fair, Serious, Critical, or Undetermined. Stable is not a condition and should only be used to clarify a condition (e.g., patient is critical but vital signs are stable). In event of a large-scale disaster, we will attempt to provide non-specific information about patients brought to NYU Langone. The American Hospital Association recommends the following one-word descriptions of a patient's general condition: Undetermined: Patient awaiting physician assessment. Good: Vital signs are stable and within normal limits. Patient is conscious and comfortable. Indicators are excellent. Fair: Vital signs are stable and within normal limits. Patient is conscious but may be uncomfortable. Indicators are favorable. Serious: Vital signs may be unstable and not within normal limits. Patient is acutely ill. Indicators are questionable. Critical: Vital signs are unstable and not within normal limits. Patient may be unconscious. Indicators are unfavorable. Treated and released: Received treatment but not admitted. Treated and transferred: Received treatment. Transferred to a different facility. A patient name is required. Release of detailed information or information about minors requires written consent of the parent, guardian, or legal representative. NYU Langone’s privacy obligations do not end with a patient’s death. The same privacy rules apply after a patient has died. If consent has been obtained and the next of kin has been notified, NYU Langone may disclose that a patient is “deceased.” However, NYU Langone may not provide any information about the death, including date, time, or cause. Federal and state statutes place additional restrictions on psychiatric patients, those who are HIV positive and those who are undergoing treatment for drug or alcohol abuse. NYU Langone may not disclose any information concerning a patient who is undergoing treatment for these conditions, including any information about their presence at the medical center. Law enforcement officials, Administration for Child Services, and parents or guardians may ask that no information be released about a child. In such cases, communications officials cannot confirm or deny that a no-information patient is located at our facility, nor can we provide condition reports. Patient privacy rules apply even though information may be a matter of public record or public knowledge. Without express written consent by the patient or guardian, NYU Langone may not disclose protected health information to the media even though the same information may be found in public records or has been reported elsewhere. HIPAA generally requires the patient or their personal representative to consent to disclosures. In emergency situations, the hospital may not be able to obtain the patient’s consent because the patient is unconscious or incapable of giving consent. Accordingly, NYU Langone may not be able to disclose any information to the media in the immediate aftermath of an emergency because there has not been time to obtain the consent from the patient or the patient’s representative. Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, or Photography / Guidelines This policy governs when a member of the media will be granted permission to interview or film, videotape, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff, on its campus or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone’s permission is required to conduct media interviews, or film, videotape, film, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff, on its campus, or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for news-related, non-commercial interviews and shooting but reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients and to protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone Health, as well as to ensure if permission is granted, any interview, filming, videotaping, or photography is consistent with all other existing or future NYU Langone policies. The following guidelines apply to all members of the media engaged in the acquisition of news with the intent of disseminating it through legitimate and recognized mediums requesting permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph any NYU Langone faculty or staff or patient or in any NYU Langone facility: Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph must be made through the Office of Communications and Marketing by calling the Office of Communications and Marketing Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph must be made at least five (5) business days before proposed interview, filming, videotaping, or photographing. In the case of breaking news where a five (5) day lead time is not feasible, requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph made directly to the subject of the interview, film, videotape, or photograph are in violation of these guidelines and will not be honored. Requests for permission to conduct an interview, film, videotape, or photograph that involve a patient, or personal health information about a patient: require a signed HIPAA consent form from the patient or their legal guardian, or in the case of a minor, a signed HIPAA consent from a parent or guardian, through the Office of Communications and Marketing; and approval from the patient’s physician that the patient’s condition or interest will not be jeopardized as a result of the interview, film, videotape, or photography. Members of the media: with signs or symptoms of a communicable disease(s) or who have tested positive for tuberculosis in the past year are prohibited from entering NYU Langone ORs and/or patient care areas. Communicable (infectious) diseases include those that can be transmitted from person-to-person by the respiratory route (e.g., during coughing, sneezing, talking) or by casual contact. Such diseases include, but are not limited to: tuberculosis, influenza, pertussis (“whooping cough”), chickenpox, and measles. Symptoms of communicable diseases include fever, chills, night sweats, cough, sore throat, runny nose, conjunctivitis (“pink eye”), vomiting, diarrhea, and a rash that is either known to be infectious or of an unknown/undiagnosed cause. who do not knowingly have a communicable disease(s) and who are free of signs and symptoms of communicable diseases are required to read and to sign a Medical Attestation Form verifying that they understand these restrictions and validating that they are without signs or symptoms of