E1 to keep the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in his healthy right ventricle open. Retaining the function of this PDA blood vessel, which normally closes after birth, helped augment blood flow throughout the baby’s body until a donor heart became available. Pulmonary Artery Banding Limits Blood Flow Pulmonary artery banding, in the context of cardiomyopathy, can limit blood flow to the lungs and reduce long-term risks. In the second part of the novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons performed pulmonary artery banding. Placing bands on the outside of the pulmonary artery limited its blood flow from the heart to the lungs, thereby reducing the young patient’s risk of long-term lung damage. Successful Heart Transplant Photo of the pediatric cardiology care team. From left: Dr. Achiau Ludomirsky, Dr. Rakesh Singh, Henya Grossman, Nathaniel Grossman, Yair Broyer, Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar, and Dr. Manu Varma. In June 2023, a donor heart became available and a team of doctors, including T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, and Ralph S. Mosca, MD, performed a heart transplant after rebuilding the baby’s pulmonary arteries. The patient was able to leave the hospital two months later, and continued to receive outpatient rehabilitation services. In December 2023, he celebrated his first birthday. Prev Next Ralph S. Mosca, MD, is Henry H. Arnhold Chair and Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Dr. Mosca is also director of the Congenital Heart Center and chief of the Division of Pediatric and Adult Congenital Cardiac Surgery. Rakesh Singh, MD, is the Haugland Family Associate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology in Pediatrics and medical director of the Pediatric Heart Failure and Transplantation Program. He specializes in cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, and other conditions that can lead to heart failure and a needed transplant. Latest in Heart Surgery Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Add-on therapy significantly improves function, risk, and survival in a difficult-to-treat cardiopulmonary condition. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery For patients with advanced heart failure, VADs offer a path to lifesaving surgery. Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Internationally recognized cardiac transplant surgeon discusses his team’s unprecedented study. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Expanding their suite of AI tools for breast imaging, researchers develop a machine learning model for DCE-MRI. A machine learning model for MRI aids radiologists in detecting breast cancer and may help to reduce unnecessary biopsy, according to a new study published in Science Translational Medicine The model is the latest tool from data scientist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health who are applying artificial intelligence (AI) to improve the accuracy of breast imaging modalities, including . Postdoctoral fellow Jan Witowski, MD, PhD, is first author of the new report. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign,” Dr. Geras says. The suite of models will ultimately be combined into a larger AI system, with the goal of making predictions and learning from multiple imaging modalities simultaneously. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign.” “We’re hoping to find very subtle correlations among different imaging modalities and learn signal that is too weak for humans to notice,” Dr. Geras says. AI for Breast MRI While mammography is largely the relied upon screening exam for breast cancer, MRI has an edge over mammography for its ability to detect small lesions. Yet, a high rate of false-positive findings has limited its use in breast cancer screening, with roughly three biopsies with benign results occurring for every one biopsy with malignant findings To improve the specificity of breast MRI, Dr. Geras and colleagues, including imaging specialist Linda Moy, MD , a professor of radiology, used more than 21,000 bilateral dynamic contrast-enhanced breast MRI exams from patients at NYU Langone to build and train a machine learning model. They then evaluated the model on three external datasets from other institutions in the United States and Europe. “The model is sufficiently robust that it generalizes to other populations. That is often missing in papers that develop AI for different applications,” Dr. Geras says. Their analysis revealed the AI-based system to be on par with radiologists in detecting breast cancer in MRI exams, and a simulation indicated the model may help to avoid unnecessary biopsies in patients with BI-RADS 4 lesions, for which a “biopsy-all” strategy is currently recommended. AI for Breast Ultrasound In a previous study, and one of the largest of its kind, the research team developed an AI model for breast ultrasound, utilizing nearly 5.5 million breast ultrasound images from more than 143,000 patients treated at NYU Langone. Breast ultrasound rivals both mammography and MRI for its low cost, accessibility, and power to distinguish solid masses from cystic lesions. However, like MRI, difficulty in interpreting images leads to many false-positive findings and unnecessary biopsies. Not only was the AI model as accurate at generating diagnoses as experienced radiologists, but when used by radiologists to assist in diagnosis, false-positive rates decreased by 37 percent, and the number of requested biopsies dropped by 27 percent. The study also suggested the system could be used to triage ultrasound exams by automatically dismissing benign cases while escalating high-risk ones to a thorough assessment workflow. “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening…. Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening, especially as an alternative to mammography, and for those with dense breast tissue,” Dr. Moy says. “Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” Further Refining the Models Dr. Geras cautions that while these initial results are promising, the research teams only looked at past exams in their analyses, and clinical trials of the tools in current patients and real-world conditions are needed before they can be routinely deployed. He also has plans to refine the AI software to include additional patient information, such as a patient’s added risk from having a family history or genetic mutation tied to breast cancer. Linda Moy, MD, is a professor of radiology. She specializes in breast imaging, and her research focuses on artificial intelligence to assist with the detection of breast cancer as well as MRI scans of the breast to support precision medicine for breast cancer. Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Both the robotic and open approaches to liver resection show comparable results for efficacy, but robotic resection is associated with significantly shorter hospital LOS, ICU admissions, and rates of severe complications. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Surgery . 2023 Jan 01;158(1):45-64. Long-term oncologic outcomes of robotic surgery remain a topic of debate in surgical oncology, but little data has been published thus far. In one of the largest studies to date of full robotic liver resection (RLR) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), researchers co-led by Karim J. Halazun, MD , section chief of hepatobiliary surgery in the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery at NYU Langone Health, found that its efficacy equaled that of open surgery—with superior results for RLR in perioperative outcomes. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers.” JAMA Surgery, the study was a retrospective analysis of prospectively maintained databases from five high-volume centers in the United States and Europe. The team evaluated both the short- and long-term outcomes of patients who underwent RLR at four of the centers between 2010 and 2020, compared with a control group of patients who underwent open liver resection (OLR) in the same time interval at an international referral center for HCC surgical management. A total of 398 patients were identified in the analysis, with 158 in the RLR group and 240 in the OLR group. Overall survival rates at 90 days and the estimated overall survival rates at 24 months were similar for both cohorts, as was the cumulative incidence of death related to tumor recurrence. In terms of perioperative tolerability, however, RLR achieved markedly better results. The median hospital length of stay (LOS) for RLR was less than half that for OLR, and admissions to the intensive care unit were two-thirds lower. The incidence of posthepatectomy liver failure was also over two-thirds lower for RLR than for OLR. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers,” says Dr. Halazun. “Reduced ICU admissions and hospital LOS, as well as a lower incidence of severe complications, may ultimately lead to a reduction of overall costs and compensate for RLR’s higher technology-related expenses. “By reducing morbidity, RLR may expand the number of patients who can receive treatment from which they are currently excluded due to the risk of liver decompensation.” Karim J. Halazun, MD, is a professor of surgery, section chief of hepatobiliary surgery, and surgical director of the Adult Liver Transplant Program. He specializes in the surgical management of bile duct cancer and pancreatic cancer, as well as liver cancer and metastases. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide NYU Langone researchers have conducted the first meta-analysis of adverse psychiatric outcomes in randomized, controlled trials of GLP-1 receptor agonists. The study examined results for over 65,000 patients and found no difference in rates of suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm between drug recipients and those receiving placebo. These findings do not support previous concerns that GLP-1 agonists might present a heightened suicide risk, as has been associated with bariatric surgery in numerous studies. GLP-1 receptor agonists have been shown to improve diabetes, reduce cardiovascular events, and cause life-changing weight loss. However, concerns have been raised about increased adverse psychiatric effects—specifically, suicide. Given the exponential increase in the use of these agents, even a slightly heightened risk of this catastrophic outcome could have major clinical impacts. To investigate that possibility, NYU Langone Health researchers launched the first meta-analysis of suicide and self-harm among patients treated with GLP-1 agonists in randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk after such procedures,” says preventive cardiologist , who led the study. “If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know—and if they don’t, it could further accelerate the sea change occurring in our approach to treating obesity.” “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk. If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know.” The study’s results, set to be presented at the upcoming 2024 American Heart Association conference , suggest that the similarities in outcome between the two approaches do not include that potential downside. Suicide Risk with Bariatric Surgery Raises Concerns About GLP-1 Questions about a link between suicidality and GLP-1 agonists first came to public awareness in July 2023 , when the Icelandic national health department described three patients taking the drugs, two of whom had suicidal thoughts and one who engaged in self-harm. That news spurred the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and researchers worldwide to investigate the possibility of a causal connection. Dr. Heffron and his team, however, had begun their study a year earlier. His curiosity was sparked by a 2022 journal discussion with colleagues in NYU Langone’s —one of the largest and longest-standing such centers in the country. The group was reviewing a paper on tirzepatide, a GLP-1 agonist, which reported that the drug’s efficacy for weight loss was nearly comparable to that of bariatric surgery. “Why bariatric surgery is so effective is not completely understood,” Dr. Heffron explains, “but we know that it leads, at least transiently, to a rise in blood levels of GLP-1. We also know there are GLP-1 receptors in the brain.” That made him wonder: Is the increase in GLP-1 responsible for the heightened risk of suicide associated with the surgery? If so, he thought, an elevated risk might also be seen with GLP-1 receptor agonists. Illustration of a GLP-1 receptor agonist (red) bound to a GLP-1 receptor (blue). Source: Getty Images Dr. Heffron was among the first cardiologists in the United States to prescribe such drugs—originally intended for those with diabetes—to treat obesity. Although none of his own patients had shown signs of suicidality, he felt it was urgent to learn whether the medications could have that unintended consequence. To find out, Dr. Heffron and his team began with a comprehensive literature search for randomized, controlled trials involving adults with obesity or diabetes or both treated with GLP-1 agonists for at least six months. The 11 researchers screened over 7,000 articles and extracted data for 144 that met the initial criteria for inclusion. After querying all available data sources, including direct contact with principal investigators or corresponding authors, the team found that 21 of the trials had recorded risk of adverse psychiatric outcomes. A random-effects meta-analysis of these studies was performed to estimate risk ratios for the primary outcome: suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm. Extensive Analysis Brings Reassuring News By the time this laborious process was completed, the EMA and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had issued their own preliminary reports, based on analyses of electronic medical records as well as observational studies and clinical trials, which found no link between GLP-1 agonists and suicidal thoughts or self-harm. Both agencies, however, called for further research to determine whether a small risk might exist for some subgroups. The NYU Langone team’s meta-analysis confirmed and broadened these findings. Across the studies that were included, over 36,000 subjects received GLP-1 agonists and over 30,000 received placebo. The event rate was very low—and statistically comparable—for both cohorts: 53 for patients receiving the drugs, and 45 for those in the control groups. No evidence emerged, moreover, that patients’ psychiatric history had an impact on risk. Although six studies (including nearly 12,000 patients) had a history of suicide attempt/depression as exclusion criteria for enrollment, removal of these studies did not affect the overall findings of the meta-analysis. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials … But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Dr. Heffron and his colleagues also conducted a subgroup analysis, collecting trials that compared GLP-1 agonists with DPP-4 inhibitors (an older class of diabetes medications), both of which raise blood levels of GLP-1. “There was no difference in suicide risk between drug recipients and controls with either type of medication,” he notes. “So it would seem that GLP-1 is not the mechanism of the increased risk seen with bariatric surgery.” The takeaway, Dr. Heffron adds, is that GLP-1 agonists could offer the benefits of bariatric surgery without that elevated risk. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials to look for any rare side effects,” he says. “But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Sean P. Heffron, MD, is an assistant professor of cardiology. His research centers around modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including optimizing effects of weight loss after bariatric surgery. Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening Research from NYU Langone Health points to sleep centers as an ideal setting to conduct recommended screening for primary aldosteronism in individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Published in the journal , the research represents a meaningful step forward in an understudied group. Primary aldosteronism is typically viewed as a rare disease; however, it disproportionately affects upward of one in three people with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Clinical guidelines from the Endocrine Society recommend screening individuals with comorbid obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension for primary aldosteronism, yet screening rates remain low “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism.” Insoo Suh, MD “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism to guide their treatment beyond sleep apnea management,” says endocrinology surgeon , senior author on the study. Endocrinologist , and sleep medicine specialist Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH , served as co-authors. Primary Aldosteronism and Comorbidities Individuals with primary aldosteronism produce too much aldosterone. This hormonal imbalance leads to sodium accumulation, water retention, increased blood pressure, and a potentially dangerous drop in potassium levels. Primary aldosteronism is an often-overlooked cause of hypertension. An interesting bidirectional connection between primary aldosteronism and obstructive sleep apnea has emerged. High aldosterone can cause fluid buildup around the throat, making obstructive sleep apnea worse. Conversely, treating primary aldosteronism can lessen the severity of sleep apnea. New Insight into Screening and Prevalence Earlier reports have suggested that few patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension are screened, so NYU Langone researchers designed their study to gather current real-world data on primary aldosteronism screening and prevalence. During a retrospective chart review of 354 individuals diagnosed with or who self-reported having hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea who participated in sleep studies at NYU Langone between January and September 2021, Dr. Suh and colleagues discovered that the screening rate was 19 percent—nearly two and a half times higher than anticipated, based on previous reports of screening rates of under 8 percent Of screened patients, 21 percent ended up being positive for primary aldosteronism, with a correlation found between positive screens and more-severe obstructive sleep apnea. “Nearly one in four individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension screened in the NYU Langone sleep center had underlying primary aldosteronism, which corroborates previous reports,” says Dr. Suh. He adds that this information should encourage more clinicians to screen regularly for hormonal imbalance, especially when managing severe sleep apnea. Instituting a Standard Protocol Raises Screening Rates To increase primary aldosteronism screening rates, the sleep center launched a standardized biochemical screening protocol for all individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension in April 2021. The screening protocol consisted of blood tests for serum aldosterone levels, plasma renin activity, and the aldosterone-to-plasma renin activity ratio. After protocol implementation, the screening rate within the center nearly doubled, increasing from 12 percent at baseline to 23 percent. “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies.” “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies,” says Dr. Mahmoudi, the clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine “Our study yields compelling evidence for instituting and standardizing primary aldosteronism screening, specifically in sleep centers, if we want to increase detection,” says Dr. Mahmoudi. Insoo Suh, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and vice chair of surgical innovation. His research and clinical interests focus on innovative surgical techniques and alternative treatment technologies for conditions requiring surgery of the thyroid, parathyroid, and adrenal glands. Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. Her research and clinical interests include sleep apnea, sleep disorders, hypersomnia, and sleep hygiene. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Joshua Chodosh, MD Over the past two decades, nearly all states and territories have published their own plans for mitigating the public health effects of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias (ADRDs). Although many of these plans address important issues such as primary prevention, early detection, and inequitable population impacts, little is known about the efficacy of those efforts. In a study Alzheimer’s & Dementia , researchers examined the history of state and territory ADRD plans and analyzed their design and implementation—and found significant shortcomings in many areas. They also offered policy recommendations on both the state and federal levels to address those issues. Here, nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert , a senior author of the study and the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research at NYU Langone Health, discusses its findings. Asking New Questions Dr. Chodosh, what was your team’s goal in analyzing this massive collection of public health plans? Dr. Chodosh : We wanted to understand what the states and territories were doing about ADRDs, and how well they were doing it. It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes? And did any of these plans have elements that might be useful for other states to emulate? “It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes?” Though state and territory plans started emerging soon after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Alzheimer’s Association launched the Healthy Brain Initiative in 2005, no one had ever tried to answer those questions systematically. As a first step, we focused on the topic of improving early detection as a public health priority. We also wanted to trace the evolution of the plans and how it was affected by national capacity-building initiatives. To that end, we looked at how state plans have addressed three priorities specified in the 2011 National Alzheimer’s Project Act , or NAPA: improving rates and timeliness of ADRD detection and diagnosis, developing the primary care workforce for dementia detection and care, and promoting equity for populations disproportionately affected by ADRD. Analyzing Efficacy How did you and your colleagues go about your investigation? Dr. Chodosh: Through web searches, we identified plans for 49 states, plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We then created a uniform variable structure, including the year of initial plan development, to identify common objectives, highlight key recommendations within each objective, and collate commonalities across plans. We also identified objectives within each of the three key NAPA priority categories that could be compared across plans. To characterize the quality of state and territory plans, we determined whether each NAPA healthcare priority was identified as a problem with a goal for improvement, and whether any specific strategies or action steps were proposed to achieve that goal. We examined plans that included actionable strategies to see if they included criteria for evaluating results. Finally, we looked at the composition of each plan’s stakeholder working groups to see the extent to which public health entities, such as departments of public health, were integrated into the planning process. Uncovering Widespread Shortcomings What were your main findings? We found that most state and territory plans had no real implementation plan. More specifically, they lacked any kind of financial infrastructure to implement their objectives. Equally important, most of the plans had no clarity on evaluation. If you do implement some aspect of your plan, how do you know if it’s had an impact? What data is available to you? What data do you need that isn’t available, and how will you get it? Once you get it, how will you use it? Those questions remained largely unanswered. “We have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. It’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring.” One big reason for this uncertainty is that we have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. So it’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring. Have the shortcomings you identified improved over time? To some extent. Health equity was a minor focus before NAPA; it has emerged as a distinct one for most of the 39 plans created after 2011. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ introduction of the Medicare Annual Wellness Visit in 2012 made ADRD detection an explicit target for clinical improvement. Since then, there’s been an emerging focus on including dementia in medical training curricula. BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act of 2018 has also spurred some changes. Before its passage, few public health departments were formally integrated into state and territory ADRD plans; that has begun to change. The BOLD Act also provides funding for states to develop blueprints for implementation and evaluation of their plans. That has moved the needle a bit, but we’re still far from where we need to be. A Road Map for Improvement What can be done to improve state and territory ADRD plans? In our paper, we offer four policy recommendations. First, the federal government should establish a national authority to oversee planning and implementation of public health measures around ADRDs. Second, we need to develop standardized, reportable measures of ADRD detection, care, and quality. Third, we should explore new opportunities for sustainable public health funding on the state level. And fourth, we should require collaboration between all national agencies and organizations that have ADRD components. We’re heading in the right direction, but the work has just begun. Joshua Chodosh, MD, is the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research and director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care and of The Michael L. Freedman Research Center on Aging, Technology, and Cognitive Health. He also serves as a staff physician at the VA New York Harbor Healthcare System. His research interests include dementia, cognitive assessment, and hearing loss. Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Innovative trials incorporate virtual visits to study the life-changing potential of neuromodulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is making steady inroads as an evidence-based therapy for the management of cognitive, motor, speech, and mood symptoms in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). For the past eight years, , leader of tDCS research and clinical programs at NYU Langone Health, has been working with a team to develop a method of providing tDCS to MS patients remotely. “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment,” says Dr. Charvet, whose work has made NYU Langone Health a recognized leader in delivering tDCS for patients at home. “Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment. Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” Pilot Studies Test Efficacy As a non-invasive brain stimulation technique, tDCS applies mild direct currents to enhance or diminish neuronal excitability. “We have created a highly rigorous research protocol enabling home use of tDCS, which can be paired with cognitive or motor training to increase benefit,” says Charvet. The research team recently completed two large pivotal trials evaluating the home-based use of tDCS in MS. first trial enrolled 120 patients with MS to investigate the benefit of tDCS paired with cognitive training to reduce fatigue and improve cognitive functioning. The second trial enrolled 66 patients with MS to evaluate the benefit of tDCS paired with hand exercises to improve upper extremity motor functioning. Results from both studies are expected in the coming months. Additional, ongoing trials are investigating the use of home-based participation to further study the benefits of tDCS for patients with MS, as well as to evaluate its use in other conditions including clinical depression. Benefits of Additive Physical Therapy One current study , co-led by Dr. Charvet and postdoctoral fellow Giuseppina Pilloni, PhD , is evaluating home-based treatment of tDCS paired with a physical activity program to improve walking and functional mobility in patients with MS. Study participants are randomly assigned to an active or sham (placebo) tDCS combined with aerobic exercise using a seated pedal exerciser. Through the virtual program, participants can participate in the study from any location in the United States. “In theory, the repeated tDCS treatments can induce long-term potentiation phenomena, causing specific changes in synaptic efficacy of the targeted brain region, and promoting synergistic effects when paired with a training activity in patients with MS,” explains Charvet. Pathway to Clinical Care “While the tDCS is not currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, we are hopeful that this will change,” says Charvet. In the meantime, Charvet and her team have launched a clinical to offer at-home treatment sessions as innovative care, under video supervision through the NYU Langone patient app. This service expands access to virtually monitored, at-home tDCS to patients at home no matter where they are located. Dr. Charvet receives funding from the NIH (1R01NS112996-01A, R21NS101712-01), U.S. Department of Defense (W81XWH-17-1-0320), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA Healthcare GRANT13010404), and the National MS Society (RG-1803-30492). She is also a consultant for Johnson & Johnson, Ybrain, and Springer Healthcare. Leigh E. Charvet, PhD, is a professor of neurology and director of multiple sclerosis research at NYU Langone Health. Her research interests center on the use of noninvasive, remotely supervised therapies for symptoms of chronic neurologic and neuropsychiatric disorders. Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia With $31 million in funding from the NIH at NYU Langone Health will continue its large, diverse cohort study investigating how vascular risk factors contribute to dementia and other age-related disorders. Research on aging is becoming more critical, given that the number of adults older than 65 is set to exceed the number of children under 18 in the United States by 2034. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age.” “We are grateful for the opportunity to continue gathering rigorous evidence regarding modifiable risk factors in midlife and in older age that may improve dementia prevention efforts and health among even the most elderly adults,” says , founding director of the institute. The research is at the core of the Optimal Aging Institute’s mission of building a hub that connects world-leading, cross-disciplinary research teams dedicated to improving how people age. The goal of the institute, formed in 2023, is to catalyze studies that move from observational epidemiology to biobanking, biomarker discovery, molecular research, and clinical trials that inform risk factor prediction, prevention, intervention, and policy changes. The ARIC-NCS Study The cohort study, known as the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities–Neurocognitive Study (ARIC-NCS), is one of the longest-running cardiovascular studies and includes the longest followed group of Black participants for cognition. Dr. Coresh co-leads the ARIC-NCS alongside Dr. Thomas Mosley, director of the Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative Dementia (MIND) Center at the University of Mississippi Medical Center, and Dr. Rebecca Gottesman, chief of the Stroke, Cognition, and Neuroepidemiology Section at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. For more than 35 years, the project has tracked 15,792 individuals in four communities in Maryland, North Carolina, Mississippi, and Minnesota. The study has spurred numerous publications and is connected to over 2 million biobanked specimens. At the time of enrollment, individuals were between the ages of 45 and 65. Findings from the study have revealed that midlife vascular risk factors strongly predict dementia, frailty, and cognitive and physical decline occurring before age 85. Yet only cognitive status and physical function reliably predict dementia after 85, raising the need to better understand risk among the oldest group of old adults. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age for a wide range of diseases,” says Dr. Coresh. A Focus on Adults 85 and Over As part of the funding renewal, Dr. Coresh (who has been working with ARIC since 2002) and a team of investigators from 10 universities across the United States will follow approximately 4,000 of the original participants who remain active in the study and who are in their 80s and 90s—building on almost 40 years’ worth of health-related and biomarker data to be related with cognitive function, physical decline, and age-related disease. The renewal will broaden the scope of data collection by incorporating six types of wearable devices, allowing for the monitoring of sleep, physical activity, blood glucose, and heart health. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging.” Emphasis will be placed on race- and sex-specific analyses to better understand how underlying multimorbidity, vascular risk factors, and social determinants of health influence not only biomarker levels but also the timing of their alteration and impact on dementia. Of the participants who remain active in the study, 70 percent are female and 25 percent are Black. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging,” says Dr. Coresh. On April 15, Dr. Coresh will moderate a special symposium to highlight an important topic at the intersection of vascular health and aging: “Controversies in Population Health: Tight blood pressure control—can we prevent dementia among older adults?” The event, co-sponsored by NYU Langone’s and the Optimal Aging Institute, will feature six renowned experts in the field and will showcase recent groundbreaking research on how treating hypertension may prevent dementia. The discussion is open to the public, but registration is required Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Compared to an open approach, minimally invasive surgery (either laparoscopic or robotic) is associated with reductions in length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. ADAPTED FROM: JSLS , 2022 Apr-Jun; 26(2): e2021.00092. While the use of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has expanded in many specialties, colon resection is still routinely performed as open surgery in much of the United States. In a retrospective study of more than 88,000 Vizient records , NYU Langone Health researchers found that, compared with open surgery, minimally invasive colon resection improves short-term outcomes, including length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes.” “Colon resections are regarded as major operations in comparison to other GI surgeries, and many surgeons have greeted minimally invasive colon surgery with caution,” says ,