FINAL PROGRAMGaylord Texan Resort & Convention CenterNovember 3−6 // Grapevine, TexasEXPLOREWHAT’s NEXT.Face mask recommendedWash hands often with soap and waterHealth and Safety PlanAAHKS has developed a Health and Safety Plan for the duration of the meeting. Under the advisement of our health and safety partners, we have a set of protocols that cover:• Meeting space considerations• Health considerations• Registration• Staff guidelines• Table and seating set up• Meal functions• Post event follow up• Livestreaming the General Session in guest roomsTo view the entire Health and Safety Plan, visit www.AAHKS.org/Meeting.Stay in your roomif you feel sick3www.AAHKS.org/MeetingLeadershipBOARD OF DIRECTORSPresidentBryan D. Springer, MDFirst Vice President Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS Second Vice President James I. Huddleston III, MDThird Vice President R. Michael Meneghini, MD Immediate Past President Richard lorio, MD Past President C. Lowry Barnes, MDSecretary Rafael J. Sierra, MDTreasurerRyan M. Nunley, MD Members At Large Ronald E. Delanois, MD, Lt. Col., USAF, MC (RET)David W. Manning, MDWilliam M. Mihalko, MD, PhDKim K. Tucker, MDCOUNCIL CHAIRS Health Policy Council: Adam J. Rana, MD Education and Communications Council: Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MSc Membership Council: James D. Slover, MD, MSCOMMITTEE CHAIRSAdvocacy: Adam J. Rana, MDCommittee on Committees: Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCSDigital Health and Social Media: Shaun P. Patel, MDDiversity Advisory Board: Muyibat A. Adelani, MD, Adam A. Sassoon, MD, MSEducation: Jeffrey B. Stambough, MDEvidence Based Medicine: David S. Jevsevar, MD, MBAFellowship Match Oversight: Michael J. Taunton, MDFinance: Ryan M. Nunley, MDFOCAL: William G. Hamilton, MDHumanitarian: J. Craig Morrison, MDIndustry Relations: Lucian C. Warth, MDInternational: Michael H. Huo, MDMembership Outreach: Keith A. Fehring, MD Nominating: Richard Iorio, MDPatient and Public Relations: Benjamin M. Stronach, MD, MSPractice Management: Alexander P. Sah, MDProgram: Jeremy M. Gililland, MDPublications: Samuel S. Wellman, MDQuality Measures: Robert S. Sterling, MD Research: Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MScWomen in Arthroplasty: Rina Jain, MD, FRCSCYoung Arthroplasty Group: Anna R. Cohen Rosenblum, MD, MScPROGRAM COMMITTEE Jeremy M. Gililland, MD, ChairLeonard T. Butler, MDJames A. Browne, MD Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MScAdam A. Sassoon, MD, MSRan Schwarzkopf, MD, MScJonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Lucian C. Warth, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program4Submission ReviewersJeffrey A. Ackerman, MDMuyibat A. Adelani, MDOluwaseun Akinbo, MDBryce C. Allen, MDKyle G. Alpaugh, MD Derek F. Amanatullah, MD, PhDLucas A. Anderson, MDJohn P. Andrawis, MD, MBAAndrew E. Apple, MDMichael P. Ast, MDPhilip H. Aurigemma, MD Trevor R. Banka, MDMichael D. Baratz, MDC. Lowry Barnes, MDDexter K. Bateman, MDOmar A. Behery, MD, MPH Courtney D. Bell, MDJaime L. Bellamy, DOIlya Bendich, MDJenna A. Bernstein, MDAlex Betech, MDJason L. Blevins, MDHayden N. Box, MDNicholas M. Brown, MDTimothy S. Brown, MDFrank A. Buttacavoli, MDCory L. Calendine, MDTiffany N. Castillo, MDBrian P. Chalmers, MDDarwin D. Chen, MDGeorge F. Chimento, MD, FACSAlexander B. Christ, MD Dane J. Church, MDCharles E. Claps, DOAnna R. Cohen Rosenblum, MDHerbert J. Cooper, MDP. Maxwell Courtney, MDSteven J. Cowart, MDBrian M. Curtin, MD, MSChris J. Dangles, MDJonathan R. Danoff, MDMichele R. D’Apuzzo, MDEytan M. Debbi, MD, PhDDimitri E. Delagrammaticas, MDMatthew J. Dietz, MDJacob M. Drew, MDJustin N. Duke, MDStephen T. Duncan, MDJohn M. Dundon, MDRobert Easton, MDJon P. Edgington, MDKarim A. Elsharkawy, MDChijindu Emenari, MD, MBAStephen M. Engstrom, MDOrry Erez, MDThomas K. Fehring, MDMichael J. Feldstein, MD, MSYale A. Fillingham, MDMarcus C. Ford, MDDavid M. Freccero, MDKevin B. Fricka, MDJonathan P. Garino, MDElizabeth B. Gausden, MDBrian P. Gladnick, MDDevon D. Goetz, MDAshton H. Goldman, MDJeffrey M. Goldstein, MDGregory J. Golladay, MDJoseph S. Gondusky, MDEric M. Greber, MDMatthew J. Grosso, MDGeorge N. Guild III, MDNikkole M. Haines, MDBrian R. Hamlin, MDCharles P. Hannon, MDErik J. Hansen, MDMatthew A. Harb, MDJacob A. Haynes, MDNathanael D. Heckmann, MDVishal Hegde, MDVictor H. Hernandez, MD, MSShane R. Hess, DOThomas R. Hickernell, MDCarlos A. Higuera, MDChris W. Hoedt, MDJessica M. Hooper, MD5www.AAHKS.org/MeetingSubmission ReviewersDonald N. Hope, MDJohn V. Horberg, MDRobert E. Howell III, MDJames I. Huddleston III, MDJason R. Hull, MDUgo N. Ihekweazu, MDDavid J. Jacofsky, MDRina Jain, MD, FRCSCDerek R. Jenkins, MDJason M. Jennings, MDDavid S. Jevsevar, MD, MBALouis B. Jones, MDRyland P. Kagan, MDMichael S. Kain, MDEli Kamara, MDNathan B. Kaplan, MDJames A. Keeney, MDMick P. Kelly, MDJason J. Kim, MDBradley A. King, MDConnor A. King, MDBrian A. Klatt, MDYoung Min Kwon, MD, PhDMaxwell K. Langfitt, MDCharles M. Lawrie, MD, MScCameron K. Ledford, MDBrett R. Levine, MD, MSPaul M. Lichstein, MD, MSElizabeth G. Lieberman, MDAdolph V. Lombardi Jr., MDZachary C. Lum, DOTad M. Mabry, MDCraig R. Mahoney, MDDavid W. Manning, MDTheodore T. Manson, MDJoseph D. Maratt, MDJ. Ryan Martin, MDJ. Bohannon Mason, MDVasilios Mathews, MDDavid J. Mayman, MDD. Clinton McNabb, MDSimon C. Mears, MD, PhDChristopher M. Melnic, MDDaniel R. Mesko, DOMark E. Mildren, MD Vincent M. Moretti, MDJ. Craig Morrison, MDWayne E. Moschetti, MD, MSThomas G. Myers, MDAustin C. Nabet, DODenis Nam, MD, MScSumon Nandi, MD, MBANathaniel J. Nelms, MDBrian T. Nickel, MDO. Brant Nikolaus, MDW. Trevor North, MDRyan M. Nunley, MDDionisio Ortiz III, MDJesse E. Otero, MD, PhDJessica L. Page, MDThomas J. Parisi, MDKevin W. Park, MDHari K. Parvataneni, MDJavad Parvizi, MD, FRCSJay J. Patel, MDNirav K. Patel, MD, FRCSAndrew M. Pepper, MDBrett C. Perricelli, MDNicolas S. Piuzzi, MDKevin D. Plancher, MD, MPHMihail C. Radulescu, MDAdam J. Rana, MDHarold W. Rees, MDMichael S. Reich, MDBenjamin F. Ricciardi, MDAndrew B. Richardson, MDRyan N. Robertson, MDDavid Rodriguez Quintana, MDJeremy A. Ross, MDJoshua C. Rozell, MDAlexander P. Sah, MDJeffrey W. Salin, DOAdam A. Sassoon, MD, MSArjun Saxena, MD, MBAKenneth J. Schmidt, MDDustin J. Schuett, DO2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program6Submission ReviewersSpencer Schulte, MDH. Del Schutte Sr., MDBenjamin J. Schwartz, MDTravis S. Scudday, MDPeter K. Sculco, MDRobert A. Sershon, MDVivek M. Shah, MDRoshan P. Shah, MDCambize Shahrdar Jr., MDNeil P. Sheth, MDAhmed Siddiqi, MD, MBARafael J. Sierra, MDZachary W. Sisko, MDJames D. Slover, MDEric B. Smith, MDDavid H. So, MD, FAAOSMark J. Spangehl, MDJeffrey B. Stambough, MDAlexandra Stavrakis, MDG. Daxton Steele, MDRobert S. Sterling, MDBenjamin M. Stronach, MD, MSLouis S. Stryker, MDDaniel C. Sun, MDSean A. Sutphen, DOZachary P. Thielen, MDMathew J. Thompson, MDRobert W. Tracey, MDKrishna R. Tripuraneni, MDAudrey K. Tsao, MDCreighton C. Tubb, MDKim K. Tucker, MDBradford S. Waddell, MDJonathan E. Webb, MDMitchell C. Weiser, MDPaul M. Wilkie, MDBradley W. Wills, MDJesse I. Wolfstadt, MDWendy W. Wong, MDEric J. Yakish, MDAdolph J. Yates Jr., MDRichard S. Yoon, MDKhalid M. Yousuf, MDMark W. Zawadsky, MDErik N. Zeegen, MDMichael G. Zywiel, MD, MSc, FRCSC7www.AAHKS.org/MeetingStaffMichael J. Zarski, JD Executive Director Joshua M. Kerr Deputy Executive DirectorAmy Bolivar Education Specialist Sharon M. Creed Accounting and Registration Manager Eileen M. Lusk Senior Director of MembershipRenalin J. Malvar Ledda Senior Director of Events and Operations Jeff Mitchell Director of Marketing and Corporate Relations Kenneth Robinson Communications ManagerChiara Rodgers, MPH, CCRC Senior Director of Research and Humanitarian ActivitiesStella Whitney Membership Operations Specialist Sigita Wolfe, MBA Senior Director of Education and Science2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program8EducationEDUCATIONAL ACTIVITY SCOPEThe 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting is designed to provide practicing orthopaedic surgeons with research based, state of the art information on diagnosis, surgical and non surgical treatment options and overall management of hip and knee conditions. This educational activity includes the review of the most current scientific research study findings, faculty and participant discussions and interactive symposia. It covers multiple clinical topics such as primary and revision total hip arthroplasty, primary and revision total knee arthroplasty, non arthroplasty, infection, complications other than infection as well as health policy. It is aimed at improving overall surgeon competence related to the care of patients with arthritis and degenerative disease.OBJECTIVESUpon completion of this educational activity, participants will be able to:• Synthesize the most current research study findings in hip and knee condition management• Evaluate various surgical and non surgical treatment options (e.g., primary total joint arthroplasty, revision total joint arthroplasty, non arthroplasty) in hip and knee condition management• Assess the efficacy of new treatment options through evidence based data• Interpret relevant health care policyACCREDITATION AND CME CREDITThe American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons (AAHKS) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. AAHKS designates this live activity for a maximum of 18 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.CLAIM CME CREDITSOnce the meeting concludes, AAHKS will send an email and an app notification with a link to the Annual Meeting evaluation. At the end of the evaluation, you will be redirected to claim CME credit. It is the meeting attendee’s responsibility to claim credits based on the hour for hour participation in the educational activity. DISCLAIMERThe material presented at this 2022 Annual Meeting has been made available by AAHKS for educational purposes only. This content is not intended to represent the only method or practice appropriate for the medical situations discussed; it is intended to present a balanced and scientifically sound view, approach, statement or opinion of the faculty, which may be helpful to others who face similar situations, or afford a forum to discuss, debate and explore new and evolving topics. The presentation of topics and any data about clinical practices should not be interpreted as advocating for, or promoting, practices that are not, or not yet adequately based on current science, evidence and clinical reasoning.CONSENT AGREEMENTBy attending the Annual Meeting, participants acknowledge and agree that AAHKS and/or its agents may record the Program and related events, use audio and video recordings, photographs, and presentation materials such as slides and abstracts for AAHKS’s purposes, including but not limited to other educational products, news, advertising and promotional purposes, without compensation.FDA STATEMENTSome pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices demonstrated or discussed at the Annual Meeting have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or have been cleared by the FDA for specific purposes only. The FDA has stated that it is the responsibility of the physician to determine the FDA clearance status of each pharmaceuticals and/or medical device he or she wishes to use in clinical practice. The AAHKS policy provides that “off label” status of the device or pharmaceutical is also specifically disclosed (i.e. that the FDA has not approved labeling the device for the described purpose). Any device or pharmaceutical is being used “off label” if the described use is not set forth on the product’s approved label. 9www.AAHKS.org/MeetingDISCLOSUREEach participant in the Annual Meeting has been asked to disclose if he or she has received something of value from a commercial company or institution, which relates directly or indirectly to the subject of their presentation. AAHKS does not view the existence of these disclosed interests or commitments as necessarily implying bias or decreasing the value of the author’s participation in the course. Note that AAHKS takes measures to mitigate all relevant financial relationships.For the most up to date disclosure list, please visit www.AAHKS.org/Meeting.Thanks to:Smith+Nephew Stryker Zimmer Biometfor their generous educational Grants to help fund the AAHKS Annual MeetingSmith+Nephew Stryker Zimmer Biometfor their generous educational Grants to fund the AAHKS Resident Arthroplasty Course (Didactic)AerobiotixDePuy SynthesEnovisHeraeusSmith+Nephew StrykerTotal Joint OrthopedicsZimmer Biometfor their generous in kind donations to support the AAHKS Resident Bioskills Lab Course2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program10Presenting the 2022 Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award to Steven J. Meyer, MD AAHKS is proud to present the 2022 Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award to Steven J. Meyer, MD. Through Dr. Meyer’s organization, STEMM (Siouxland Tanzania Educational Medical Ministry), he has provided more than 1,000 free surgeries, imported over $5 million dollars of equipment and spent countless hours educating healthcare professionals. This award recognizes his leadership in medical mission trips to remote Massai villages providing healthcare to totally isolated people groups and introducing TJA to the country of Tanzania. STEMM was founded in 1996 and, since its conception, the philosophy of the organization has been to provide aid to persons of extreme poverty regardless of color, creed, gender or religion. A large focus has been to educate impoverished children and provide orphan care, humanitarian relief, medical services and training, agricultural improvement and community development, which includes feeding 5,500 children school lunch daily.“Dr. Meyer is a true advocate for the people of Tanzania, especially the orphans. I’ve witnessed his relentless drive and dedication personally. After a 24 hour flight home from Africa and with no hesitation, immediately resuming his clinical duties to balance responsibilities with his partners but all to remain devoted to his trips to Tanzania. Dr. Meyer’s care for the people of Tanzania is not a theoretical experience, but a real one,” says Brian D. Johnson, MD, a partner and friend of Dr. Meyer.Dr. Meyer graduated from the University of Iowa College of Medicine and completed his residency at the University of Kentucky, Shriner’s Hospital. He is fellowship trained in general orthopaedics and pediatric orthopaedics. The Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award recognizes AAHKS members who have distinguished themselves by providing humanitarian medical services and programs with a significant focus on musculoskeletal diseases and trauma including the hip and knee in the United States or abroad.For more information on the Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award, please go to www.AAHKS.org/Humanitarian.11www.AAHKS.org/MeetingPresenting the 2022 Presidential Award to William G. Hamilton, MD AAHKS is proud to present the 2022 Presidential Award to William G. Hamilton, MD for all the outstanding service he has given to AAHKS since 2006. Since the beginning of his membership, Dr. Hamilton has been heavily involved, serving as faculty for the Orthopaedic Team Member Course, Resident Course, Ask the Experts sessions and many other capacities at AAHKS Annual and Spring Meetings throughout the years. Dr. Hamilton has also held various Committee positions as an AAHKS member, including the Patient and Public Relations, Quality Measures, Fellowship Match Oversight Committees and, of course, as the Chair of the Fellows Orthopaedic Continued AAHKS Learning (FOCAL) Committee one that Dr. Hamilton was very instrumental in creating. FOCAL arose as a response to the COVID 19 pandemic. Because elective surgeries were postponed at many institutions, there was concern that the pandemic might significantly impair the fellowship learning experience. To help augment the fellows’ learning experience, the FOCAL Initiative was created a free, online, interactive learning experience for surgeons in training that have chosen adult reconstruction as a specialty. Through FOCAL, arthroplasty fellows and senior residents are invited to listen to lectures from many of the country’s top adult reconstruction surgeons and participate in case discussions. As a result of the success of the initiative, AAHKS created the FOCAL Committee. Under Dr. Hamilton’s leadership, the FOCAL Committee continues to offer monthly webinars to augment fellowship training as well as promoting a fellowship training curriculum.“During a potential time of crisis for orthopaedic education due to the onset of the COVID pandemic, Dr. Hamilton and his team quickly filled the potential void with the establishment of the FOCAL curriculum. This educational platform, which continues today, provided the foundation at a time when other traditional opportunities were in jeopardy” says Bryan D. Springer, MD. Throughout Dr. Hamilton’s 20 plus year career as a board certified orthopaedic surgeon, he has been recognized countless times for his work. Dr. Hamilton graduated from the University of Cincinnati and completed his residency at the University of Pennsylvania. It is a great honor to recognize Dr. Hamilton as this year’s Presidential Award recipient an amazing resource for AAHKS who advocates for patients, his colleagues and the profession.2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program12Presenting the 2022 AAHKS Diversity Award to Richard E. Grant, MD It is with great joy that we present the inaugural AAHKS Diversity Award to Richard E. Grant, MD. Dr. Grant is a semi retired board certified orthopaedic surgeon, who is truly devoted to promoting diversity in orthopaedics. Dr. Grant has specialized in treating complex musculoskeletal conditions of the hip, knee and spine. During his time at Howard University Hospital, where he was the chair of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Dr. Grant was famously known for his community outreach endeavors, encouraging community members to tap into the orthopaedic care available at hospitals like Howard University, University Hospital of Cleveland, Ohio and Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia. His labors at each academic center focused on his love of teaching young orthopaedic residents to develop their surgical skills in the surgical sub specialties of lumbar spine surgery and total joint arthroplasty. He specialized in revision arthroplasty and complex primaries, particularly in those patients with sickle cell disease. Dr. Grant is a retired United States Air Force Lt. Col. veteran who earned his medical degree from Howard University School of Medicine. He completed his internship at the Kaiser Foundation Hospital in Oakland, California and his orthopaedic residency at the United States Air Force Wilford Hall Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas under the guidance of Dr. John L. Eady. Following his residency, he completed two prestigious fellowships in Joint Arthroplasty and Adult Spine Surgery. What makes Dr. Grant so remarkable and the best candidate for the Diversity Award is that, after all his years of residency and post residency training, he returned to the inner city to practice and remained in the urban community throughout his illustrious career. Promoting the same quality care that carefully addresses the orthopaedic needs of underserved patients in both majority and minority urban settings. It was important for him to share his expertise in joint replacement surgery, gender specific knee replacement and sickle cell disease related osteonecrosis with a community that could benefit from both research and academia. The majority of the patients in the community that Dr. Grant served were African Americans who usually exhibited more advanced diseases and debilitating deformities.In addition to his clinical work, Dr. Grant served on the AAOS Diversity Advisory Board and was the first African American president of the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery (ABOS), where he advised the board to become more inclusive toward women and minority orthopaedic surgeons. Throughout Dr. Grant’s 30 plus year career of working with orthopaedic residents, he empowered minority students and women to enter the field. He personally trained and educated more than 60 minority and female residents between 1988 and 2001 when he was the chairman of the Department of Orthopaedic surgery and associate professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at Howard University Hospital in Washington, D.C. "We are excited to honor Dr. Grant as the inaugural AAHKS Diversity Award recipient. He has been a long standing champion for ethnic and gender diversity in orthopaedics, and specifically hip and knee arthroplasty. His dedication to diversity and orthopaedic education evolved most notably as chair of orthopaedics at Howard University for 13 years. While the objective data on his impact is impressive, we were most struck by comments we received on how Dr. Grant made his residents and medical students feel. It is his ability to make minority and female surgeons in training feel not just competent and capable, but also included and important, that we wish to honor most,” says Muyibat A. Adelani, MD, Co Chair of AAHKS Diversity Advisory Board (DAB). 13www.AAHKS.org/MeetingPresenting the 2022 Women in Arthroplasty Empowerment Award to Amy Turk It is with great pleasure that AAHKS presents the Women in Arthroplasty (WIA) Empowerment Award to Amy Turk. Amy is the Director of Strategy and Innovation Global Hip Marketing for DePuy Synthes (Johnson and Johnson) and has experience in global strategic marketing, acquisitions and commercial integration. The WIA Empowerment Award recognizes a person in the orthopaedic community that has gone above and beyond to elevate and support women in arthroplasty in a unique and impactful way. Amy Turk’s work with DePuy Synthes' Women of Orthopaedics, dedication and most importantly her advocacy for women in arthroplasty has elevated our female members in AAHKS. These acts of leadership directly align with the WIA mission of promoting, mentoring and professionally developing women in arthroplasty. “Amy has been instrumental in rallying women in arthroplasty and creating the Women in Arthroplasty Committee (WIA) back in 2018. When I first met Amy, she asked where are the other women and how do we get women together? Like in industry, she saw a clear lack of representation and few women having a voice in our specialty. She has worked tirelessly to connect women in arthroplasty by hosting events to help develop our leadership skills, networking and connecting us with other non female arthroplasty surgeons as mentors and advocates. She advocates within her own business to make sure women in arthroplasty are on the podium and teaching courses,” says Linda I. Suleiman, MD.Amy is an active player in changing culture. She is a change agent that truly deserves to be honored as the recipient of the Women in Arthroplasty Empowerment Award. 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program14Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting15This symposium will educate arthroplasty surgeons on the forces driving change in the practice models and economics of a modern arthroplasty practice. We will cover topics from the drive to bundled payments, changes to regulatory framework, the role of outside capital, to the shift to population health moving forward. Specific focus will be paid to changes to Stark Law and Gainsharing rules which govern financial relationships in both hospital employed and private practice settings, the significant interest and influx of Private Equity funding, the ongoing evolution of legislative interventions in healthcare spending and the specific implications of the transition from fee for service medicine to value based care and ultimately population health for musculoskeletal care. Learning Objectives:1.To review the current economic, regulatory and legislative landscape driving change in the world of arthroplasty. 2.To critically evaluate the role of Private Equity and outside capital as it relates specifically to orthopaedic practices. 3.To identify where value based care and specifically population health are changing the way arthroplasty surgeons practice today and into the future.Outline:Introduction Ryan M. Nunley, MDRegulatory Principles Guiding Arthroplasty Economics Update for 2022 Michael P. Ast, MDNeed Some Extra Help? The Role of PE and Outside Capital in Orthopaedics R. Michael Meneghini, MDThe Legislative Push to Population Health James I. Huddleston III, MDThe Future of Value Based Care in Arthroplasty: Principles We All Need to Know Michael P. Bolognesi, MDDiscussion All Faculty NotesSymposium IThe Economics of Arthroplasty in 2022 and BeyondModerator: Ryan M. Nunley, MD Faculty: Michael P. Ast, MD, R. Michael Meneghini, MD, Michael P. Bolognesi, MD, James I. Huddleston III, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program16Paper #1Lessons Learned from the CJR Model at an Academic Tertiary Center: The Good, the Bad, and the UglyChancellor F. Gray, MD, Hernan A. Prieto Saavedra, MD, Hari K. Parvataneni, MD, Dennis Chen, MD, Justin T. Deen, MD, Luis Pulido, MDIntroduction: Our institution participated in the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) model from 2016 to 2020. Here we review lessons learned from a total joint arthroplasty (TJA) care redesign at a tertiary academic center amid changing 1) CJR rules, 2) inpatient only rules and 3) outpatient trends.Methods: Quality, financial and patient demographic data from the years prior to and during participation in CJR were obtained from a combination of institutional and Medicare provided, reconciled CJR performance data.Results: During CJR participation, there was significant improvement in quality metrics and efficiency of care: decreased LOS (3.94 to 2.17 days, p< 0.001), increased home discharge rate (63. to 80., p< 0.001), decreased readmission rate (13. to 6., p=0.06), and decreased complication rate (4. to 1., p=0.02). Despite an increase in true outpatients as well as new challenges that arose from changing inpatient only rules, which led voluntary misclassification of some inpatients as outpatient due to unclear outpatient classification rules (effectively removing the highest performing patients from CJR), our institution's Composite Quality Score increased from 4.4 to 17.6 (top quintile). Over the five year period, CMS saved an estimated $8,285,536 on 1,486 CJR cases, $7,488,206 on 1,343 non CJR cases, and $445,536 from the voluntary misclassification of 272 inpatients (25. of all Medicare patients in final year)—a total savings of $16,219,278 over 5 years. Despite significant physician time and effort leading to marked improvements in efficiency, quality, and significant cost savings for CMS, CJR participation resulted in a net penalty of $304,456 to our institution with no physician gainsharing. Conclusion: The benefits of CJR were tempered by the malalignment of incentives among payer, hospital and physician as well as a lack of transparency. Future payment models will need to be refined and built upon the lessons learned from CJR, including the successes and challenges.Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting17Introduction: Since the ACA was passed in 2010, reductions in Medicare reimbursement have led to larger discrepancies between the relative cost of Medicare patients and privately insured patients. The purpose of this study was to compare the medical costs and reimbursement of Medicare as compared to private insurance in patients undergoing total hip (THA) and total knee (TKA) arthroplasty. Methods: Patients of a single payer source who underwent primary TKA or THA arthroplasty at one institution between the dates of 1/4/21 and 6/30/2021 were included (n=833). Variables included insurance type, medical costs, prescriptions costs, target costs and surplus amounts. The primary outcome measure were the surplus values and magnitude between Medicare and non Medicare groups. T tests, ANOVA and Chi Squared tests were used for analysis. Results: THA represented of cases while TKA represented . Of these patients, 31. were Medicare and 68. were non Medicare. Overall, average medical cost was $27,534, average total cost was $27,914, average adjusted target cost was $35,431 and average surplus was $7,517. Significant differences were observed between Medicare and non Medicare in medical cost ($16,893 vs $32,416, p< 0.001), total cost ($17,334 vs $32,768, p< 0.001), adjusted target cost $22,083 vs $41,556 (p< 0.001) and surplus ($4,748 vs $8,788, p< 0.001). Deficits were reported in 12. of overall cases ( Medicare vs non Medicare, p< 0.001). Conclusion: Medicare target prices, total costs and surplus were significantly lower compared to non Medicare insurance plans. While fewer Medicare cases resulted in absolute institutional deficits, the lower average surplus demonstrates that reimbursement for these cases may lead to consistent strain on provider groups who may face additional overhead costs. This finding warrants further investigation.NotesPaper #2Lower Revenue Surplus in Medicare vs Non Medicare Total Joint ArthroplastyJustin A. Magnuson, MD, John Hobbs, Kalpak Sarangdhar, Peter A. Gold, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program18Introduction: Although total hip arthroplasty (THA) is one of the most successful operations in modern medicine, its reimbursement is tightly monitored by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and is regularly decreased both to reflect changing effort associated with the procedure and to balance the CMS budget. Previous studies have reported on decreasing THA reimbursement, but none have evaluated these changes across the lifespan of CMS's RVU based fee schedule. The purpose of this study is to report the reimbursement of THA from the advent of the Medicare Resource Based Relative Value Schedule (RBRVS).Methods: We performed a retrospective review of the CMS physician fee schedule for CPT code 27130 (THA) from 1992 to 2022 as published in the RBRVS. For each year during the study period, we recorded components of the total relative value unit (RVU) including work (wRVU), practice expenses (PE), malpractice, and the conversion factor (CF). We adjusted for inflation using the consumer price index (CPI), with a January 2022 reference date. Results: Between 1996 and 2022, there was a decrease in nominal CMS physician payments from $1,924 to $1,316 (), which translated to a real, CPI adjusted decrease of ($3,504 to $1,316). Over the same period, total RVUs dropped (47.17 to 38.02). The PE component of RVU decreased most dramatically, from 23.91 to 14.3 (). The conversion factor peaked in 1996 at 40.80 and has fallen to 34.61 in 2022. Conclusion: Over three decades, there has been a substantial decline in both nominal and inflation adjusted Medicare surgeon reimbursement for CPT code 27130, corresponding to a decrease in the total RVUs allocated to the procedure by CMS. Downward trends in reimbursement could create unintended access limitations or health care inequalities for Medicare patients as surgeons skew their payer mix to reflect financial pressures.NotesPaper #327130: A Reimbursement RetrospectiveRichard D. Southgate, MD, Erik Woelber, MD, Kathryn L. Schabel, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting19Introduction: The purpose of this study was to assess surgeon reimbursement among total joint arthroplasty patients with differing risk profiles within the Medicare population.Methods: The “2019 Medicare Physician and Other Provider” Medicare file was utilized. Data was filtered for all primary hip and knee arthroplasty procedures billed to Medicare in 2019. Patient demographics and comorbidity profiles were collected, including frequency of atrial fibrillation, Alzheimer's, congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, depression, diabetes, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, history of cancer and history of stroke. The mean patient hierarchal condition category (HCC) risk score, a standardized metric accounting for patient comorbidities which is normalized to 1.0 for a typical patient, was collected. Medicare surgeon reimbursement was collected. All procedure episodes were split into two cohorts: those with an HCC risk score of 1.5 or greater (higher risk cohort), and those with patient HCC risk scores less than 1.5 (lower risk cohort). Variables were compared utilizing Student T tests, and Chi squared analysis.Results: In 2019, 441,584 primary total hip and knee arthroplasty procedures were billed to Medicare and included. The mean reimbursement across all procedures was $1068.03. For the higher risk cohort (50,004 patients), these patients had a higher rate of all comorbidities compared to the lower risk cohort of 391,580 patients (p≤ 0.001 for all variables). The mean payment across the higher risk cohort was $1059.21, while the mean payment among the lower risk cohort was $1073.32 (p=.0324). Conclusion: Mean surgeon reimbursement within Medicare in 2019 was lower for primary total joint arthroplasty among higher risk arthroplasty patients in comparison to their healthier counterparts. Risk adjustment has been implemented for hospital payment, but does not yet exist for surgeon reimbursement. This study may suggest that risk adjustment for surgeon reimbursement in total joint arthroplasty should be implemented to properly incentivize the surgical care of patients likely requiring increased resources for care.NotesPaper #4Should Medicare Surgeon Reimbursement for Arthroplasty Be Risk Adjusted for Patient Complexity?Jack M. Haglin, MD, Joseph C. Brinkman, MD, David G. Deckey, MD, Sailesh Tummala, MD, Michael L. Moore, BS, Joshua S. Bingham, MD, Mark J. Spangehl, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program20Paper #5Do PROs Reflect Objective Measures of Function? Implications for Value Based Care in TKABrandon Hill, MS, Shivesh Shah, BA, Wayne E. Moschetti, MD, MS, Peter L. Schilling, MD, MSc Introduction: PROs are commonly used in research, clinical practice and by federal reimbursement models to assess outcomes for patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA) and TKA. This study examined a large cohort of these patients to determine whether commonly used PROs reflect performance, measured by standardized functional tests (SFTs), the gold standard objective measures of functional outcome.Methods: We used prospective PRO and SFT measurements through the Osteoarthritis Initiative (OAI), a ten year observational study of patients with, or at risk for, symptomatic femoral tibial knee osteoarthritis. From this data two cohorts were examined: 1) patients who received a TKA (n=292) and 2) patients with native OA (n=4687). PROs included WOMAC, KOOS, SF 12, and ICOAP. SFTs included 20M walk pace, 400M walk pace and chair stand times. Spearman and Pearson correlation coefficients were used to determine the relationship between PROs and SFTs.Results: There was a low level of correlation between PROs and objective measures of functional outcomes across nearly all SFT and PRO metrics and in both cohorts. The magnitude of correlation between WOMAC/KOOS subscale and SFT measurements in native OA patients ranged as follows: 400 M walk pace (.16 .23), chair stand time (.23 .29) and 20 M pace (.21 .3). In the TKA cohort, values ranged as follows: 400 M walk pace (.11 .28), chair stand time (.17 .32) and 20 M pace (.18 .37). All were statistically significant to p< 0.05. Similar relationships were found between SFTs and SF 12/ICOAP. Conclusion: PROs are not strongly associated with SFTs in either OA or TKA patients, even when SFTs are collected in a controlled environment. If SFTs are the gold standard for objective evaluation of functional capacity, then today's PROs are a poor indicator of functional outcome and must be influenced by other factors. Adoption of PROs as a proxy for functional outcomes warrants caution due to an incomplete understanding of their limitations.Notes21www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: While Medicare requires patient reported outcome measures (PROM) for many quality programs, some commercial insurers have begun requiring preoperative PROMs when determining patient eligibility for total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Concerns exist that this data may be used to deny TKA to patients above a specific PROM score, but the optimal threshold is unknown. This study's purpose was to evaluate postoperative outcomes following TKA based on theoretical PROM thresholds.Methods: We retrospectively analyzed 25,246 consecutive primary TKA patients from 29 facilities and 44 surgeons from 2016 to 2019. Hypothesized preoperative KOOS Jr. cutoffs of 40, 50, 60, 70 points were used. Preoperative scores below each threshold were considered “approved” surgery, while preoperative scores above each threshold were considered “denied” surgery. In hospital complications, 90 day readmissions, discharge disposition were evaluated. KOOS Jr. scores were collected preoperatively and one year postoperatively. Minimum clinically important difference (MCID) achievement was calculated using previously validated anchor based methods.Results: In patients approved for surgery using KOOS Jr. thresholds of 40, 50, 60, 70 points, MCID achievement at one year was 88., 85., 79., , respectively. In hospital complication rates for approved patients were 2., 2., 2., 2., respectively. 90 day readmission rates for approved patients were 4., 4., 4., 4., respectively. Approved patients had a higher rate of achieving MCID (p< 0.001) for all thresholds, but a higher rate of non home discharge (p=0.01) for thresholds of 40 (p< 0.001), 50 (p=0.002), and 60 (p=0.024) compared to denied patients. Approved patients had similar in hospital complication and 90 day readmission rates to denied patients.Conclusion: The majority of patients achieved MCID at all theoretical PROMs thresholds for TKA eligibility with low complication and readmission rates. Setting preoperative PROM thresholds to approve TKA did not guarantee clinically successful outcomes. Such a future policy will create access to care barriers for patients who would otherwise benefit from a TKA.NotesPaper #6 Preoperative Patient Reported Outcome Measure Thresholds Should Not be Used for Indicating Total Knee Ryan M. Sutton, MD, Colin M. Baker, BS, Taylor D'Amore, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program22Introduction: No study or registry achieves response rates to PROMs. This study aims to determine satisfaction rates after hip and knee arthroplasty in patients who did not initially respond to PROMs, characteristics of non responders and exploring contact preferences to maximize response rates. Methods: Prospective cohort study of 709 patients planned to undergo hip arthroplasty and 737 patients planned to undergo knee arthroplasty at a single center in 2018. PROMs questionnaires including the EQ 5D health related quality of life score and Oxford Hip/Knee Scores (OHS/OKS) were completed prior to surgery. Follow up questionnaires were sent by post at 1 year including additional satisfaction scoring. Univariate, multivariate and receiver operator curve analysis was performed. Results: Among hip patients 151/709 (21.) were true non responders, 83 (55.) of whom were contactable. Among knee patients 108/737 (14.) were true non responders, 91 (84.) of whom were contactable. There was no difference in satisfaction after arthroplasty between initial non responders and responders for hips (74/81 vs 476/516, p=0.847) or knees (81/93 vs 470/561, p=0.480). Initial and persistent non response was associated with younger age, higher BMIs and significantly worse preoperative PROMs for both hip and knee patients (p< 0.05). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that younger age (p< 0.001), higher BMI (p=0.003) and poorer preoperative OHS (p=0.019) were independently associated with persistent non response to hip PROMs, no independent association with persistent non response were identified for knees. For the entire cohort (n=1352) compared to older patients, patients < 67 years were less likely to respond to postal PROMs with OR 0.63 (0.558 to 0.711). Using a threshold of >66.4 years predicted a preference for contact by post with 65. sensitivity and 68. specificity (AUC 0.723 (0.647 0.799 CI, p< 0.001)). Conclusion: The majority of initial non responders were ultimately contactable with effort. Satisfaction rates were not inferior in patients who did not initially respond to PROMs.NotesPaper #7Loss to Patient Reported Outcome Measure (PROM) Follow up After Hip and Knee ArthroplastyLauren A. Ross, Sara O'Rourke, Gemma Toland, Deborah J. Mac Donald, BA, Nick D. Clement, MD, PhD, Chloe E. H. Scott, MD, FRCS (ORTHO)www.AAHKS.org/Meeting23Introduction: The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) model links quality with hospital reimbursement for total joint arthroplasty (TJA). Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) serve as a component of quality scores. CJR has mandated preoperative and postoperative PROMs compliance by 2023. This study evaluates PROM compliance and resource utilization to capture PROMs at a high volume center with extensive experience in alternative payment models (APMs). Methods: This is a retrospective analysis of a consecutive series of patients undergoing primary TJA from 2016 2019 at a single institution. Compliance rates were obtained for HOOS JR, KOOS JR and SF 12 surveys. Direct supply and staff labor costs for PROMs collection were obtained. Time driven activity based costing (TDABC) estimated resource utilization for PROMs collection. Descriptive statistics were presented as mean and standard deviation for normally distributed data by Kolmogorov Smirnov testing. Chi square testing was used to compare compliance rates between groups. Results: 43,252 (25,246 TKA;18,006 THA) total procedures were evaluated. Of these, 25,315 (15,797 TKA; 9,518 THA) were performed in CMS eligible patients. In the CMS eligible cohort, preoperative HOOS JR/KOOS JR compliance was 66.. Postoperative HOOS JR/KOOS JR compliance was 29., 46. and 27. at six months, one year and two years, respectively. Preoperative SF 12 compliance was . Postoperative SF 12 compliance rate was 35., 49. and 33. at six months, one year and two years. Medicare patients had lower PROM compliance than the overall cohort (p< 0.05) at all time points except preoperative KOOS JR and SF 12 in TKA patients. The estimated annual cost for PROM collections was $273,682 ($27,914 for personnel, $245,768 for fixed costs) with a total cost for the entire study period of $986,369. Conclusion: Despite extensive experience with APM's and a total expenditure of nearly $1,000,000, our center demonstrated low preoperative and postoperative PROM compliance rates. These results question the feasibility of widespread adoption of CMS PROMs reporting requirements.NotesPaper #8Patient Reported Outcome Measures for Total Joint Arthroplasty: Evaluation of Cost and ComplianceRyan M. Sutton, MD, Colin M. Baker, BS, Taylor D'Amore, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD, Matthew S. Austin, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program24This dynamic session featuring didactics and demonstration videos will highlight how artificial intelligence tools are already positively impacting clinical hip and knee arthroplasty practice.Learning Objectives:1.Identify opportunities for orthopaedic practice enhancement with artificial intelligence tools.2.Evaluate the biggest opportunities for machine learning for clinical practice, research and payor relations. 3.Review the current state of research and identify the future avenues for innovation in AI.4.Identify gaps in our knowledge and better evaluate the ethics and research methodologies around AI.Outline:1.Computer Vision: Getting the Most Out of Clinical Imaging a. Implant Identification Viktor E. Krebs, MD b. Automated Annotation of Implant Position and Change in Position Cody C. Wyles, MD c. Intraoperative Enabling Technologies Michael J. Taunton, MD 2.Machine Learning and Value Based Care a. Predicting Inpatient vs Outpatient Surgery Michael J. Taunton, MD b. Patient Specific and Dynamic Risk Calculators for Dislocation and Periprosthetic Fracture Cody C. Wyles, MD c. AI and Value Based Care, Prediction of Outcomes and Implications for Payment Models Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA d. Discussion 3.Big Opportunities: Focus on the Near Future a. Big Data and AI: Dangers and Opportunities Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA b. Natural Language Processing as a Tool to Restore the Doctor Patient Relationship Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA c. National Data and Registry Data Viktor E. Krebs, MD d. Discussion / Q+A NotesSymposium IIAdvances in Arthroplasty Practice with Artificial Intelligence The Future is Now Moderator: Michael J. Taunton, MD Faculty: Cody C. Wyles, MD, Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA, Viktor E. Krebs, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting25Introduction: Currently, there is no consensus as to when to safely perform elective total joint arthroplasty (TJA) after a COVID 19 infection. The purpose of this study was to evaluate how timing between infection and TJA affected complications and venous thromboembolism (VTE) rates. We hypothesized that a period of 90 days would improve complications and minimize VTE rates.Methods: A multicenter, retrospective review of consecutive unilateral primary TJA recipients was performed between 8/1/2020 11/30/2021. Patients were stratified into two cohorts based on whether they had COVID 19 within 1 year prior to elective TJA: COVID+ (n=221), COVID (n=433). Further, COVID+ patients were sub divided into two cohorts based on when they had their TJA in relation to a positive test result: TJA<90 days from COVID+ test (n=9) and TJA>90 days from COVID+ test (n=212). Chi Square and student t tests were used to analyze complications between groups.Results: Mean time from COVID+ diagnosis to TJA was 8.7 months. VTE rates (1. vs 0.; p=0.6), cardiopulmonary events (4. vs 3.; p=0.7), wound complications (p=0.78), superficial (p=0.86) and deep infections (p=0.08) were similar between COVID+ and COVID patients, respectively. Patients that had TJA within 90 days of a positive test had a significantly higher rate of VTE (22. vs 0.; p< 0.001), cardiopulmonary complications (88. vs 0.; p< 0.001) and visits to the ED (88. vs 6.; p< 0.001). Severity of infection data was available on 43 patients. Of these 3.6 % were asymptomatic, 11. were symptomatic, and 4. were hospitalized; outcomes among these were not different. Conclusion: COVID positive patients at a mean time of 8 months from positive test result had similar VTE and cardiopulmonary complications compared to COVID negative patients. However, rates of VTE, cardiopulmonary complications and visits to ED were higher in COVID+ patients that underwent TJA within 90 days of positive test result.NotesPaper #9Timing of Elective Total Joint Arthroplasty Following the COVID 19 InfectionDavid Novikov, MD, Nicholas J. Ogrinc, BA, Tucker Berk, BS, Noelle Wojciechowski, BA, Hannah J. Szapary, BS, Alexander R. Farid, BA, Afshin A. Anoushiravani, MD, Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA, Michael S. Kain, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program26Introduction: Hyponatremia is a common electrolyte abnormality in arthroplasty patients. However, these values are often overlooked by surgeons. There is currently a lack of institutional data evaluating the implications of sodium disturbances following TJA. This study aimed to (1) report the incidence of hyponatremia, and (2) examine the impact of postoperative hyponatremia as well as the change in sodium levels on the perioperative course of arthroplasty patients.Methods: This was a retrospective analysis of 3,071 primary and revision TJAs performed at a single institution between 2015 and 2017. Patients with at least one preoperative and postoperative serum sodium measurement were included. Based on preoperative and postoperative sodium values (pre post), patients were classified into four groups: normonatremic normonatremic (Group 1), normonatremic hyponatremic (Group 2), hyponatremic normonatremic (Group 3), and hyponatremic hyponatremic (Group 4). Primary endpoints were length of stay (LOS), non home discharge, 90 day complications and readmissions.Results: The distribution of cases was: Group 1 (84.), Group 2 (9.), Group 3 (2.) and Group 4 (3.). Overall, 13. developed hyponatremia after TJA. Older age, hip arthroplasty, revision surgery, general anesthesia, Charlson Comorbidity Index, history of stroke, congestive heart failure, liver disease and chronic kidney disease were risk factors for postoperative hyponatremia. Mortality rate was 2. in Group 4 compared to in the other groups (p< 0.001). Patients with postoperative hyponatremia (Group 2 and 4) had a greater likelihood of having a 90 day complication, non home discharge and greater LOS. Similarly, a greater decrease in sodium level was also associated with poorer perioperative outcomes.Conclusion: Postoperative hyponatremia was a relatively common occurrence in patients undergoing TJA, and was associated with increased complications, LOS and non home discharge. Surgeons should identify patients at risk of developing sodium abnormalities in order to optimize these patients and avoid increased resource utilization.NotesPaper #10Hyponatremia is An Overlooked Sign of Trouble Following TJAColin M. Baker, BS, Graham S. Goh, MD, Saad Tarabichi, MD, Matthew Sherman, BS, Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS www.AAHKS.org/Meeting27Introduction: Direct anterior approach (DAA) total hip arthroplasty (THA) has been associated with higher rates of superficial incisional dehiscence following surgery. However, limited data is available regarding outcomes following initial treatment of this complication. This study aimed to evaluate patient risk factors, repeat reoperations and survivorship free from any revision in those who develop superficial wound dehiscence following DAA THA.Methods: We identified 3687 patients who underwent a primary DAA THA between 2010 2019 from our institutional total joint registry. Of these, 98 (2.) patients developed a superficial wound dehiscence requiring intervention [irrigation and debridement (I&D; n=40, 1.) or wound care with or without antibiotics (n=58, 1.)]. Dehiscence was noted at median 27 (range 2 105) days. These patients were compared to patients who did not have a superficial wound complication (n=3589). Landmark Kaplan Meier survivorship analysis was performed to account for immortal time bias with a 45 day landmark time. Mean follow up was 4 years. Results: Patients with superficial wound dehiscence compared to those without, respectively, were more often female ( vs. , p=0.018), had increased mean body mass index (BMI; 34 vs. 28 kg/m2, p< 0.001), and had higher American Society of Anesthesiologist scores (ASA 3; vs. , p=0.006). There were 3 (3.) non revision re reoperations (index I&Ds excluded): 2 repeat superficial I&Ds and 1 iliopsoas tendon release. There was no difference in 4 year survivorship free from any revision in those with superficial dehiscence compared to those without ( vs. , respectively, p=0.1). There were 2 (2.) revisions in the superficial dehiscence group: 1 for periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) and 1 for aseptic femoral loosening. Conclusion: Superficial wound dehiscence following DAA THA was associated with female sex, higher BMI, and increased comorbid status. Fortunately, with proper index management, the risk of revision THA and PJI was not increased for these patients.Notes Paper #11The Fate of the Patient with Superficial Dehiscence Following Direct Anterior Total Hip ArthroplastyJacob M. Wilson, MD, Matthew L. Hadley, MD, Cameron K. Ledford, MD, Joshua S. Bingham, MD, Michael J. Taunton, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program28Introduction: Fragility fractures (FFs) are common in the United States, affecting over 1.5 million Americans annually. Fragility fractures are pathognomonic for osteoporosis, yet osteoporosis is often undertreated. Many patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) have a history of FF. However, only a few studies have examined FFs impact on outcomes after THA patients. The purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of prior FF on the incidence of secondary FF following THA, periprosthetic fractures (PPF), and revision THA (rTHA).Methods: Patients older than 49 who underwent THA for osteoarthritis were identified in the PearlDiver Database. Patients were stratified based on whether they sustained a FF within three years of THA. Univariate analysis was conducted on demographic characteristics, comorbidities, and postoperative outcomes using Pearson chi square analysis. Patients were followed for as long as data were available, with a maximum follow up of 10 years. If a postoperative outcome was significant on univariate analysis (p< 0.05), a multivariable analysis using Cox proportional hazard's model was conducted to adjust for other potential risk factors. In order to determine such factors, demographics and comorbidities with p values < 0.2 were included in the multivariable analysis. Results: In total, 6,181 patients who underwent THA had a prior FF and 179,074 did not. Univariate analysis demonstrated that patients with prior FF had higher incidences of secondary FF, PPF and rTHA (p< 0.001). After adjusting for risk factors, Cox proportional hazard's model demonstrated that patients with prior FF had higher risks of rTHA (HR 1.32; p< 0.001), secondary FF (HR 3.54; p< 0.001), and PPF (HR 1.42; p< 0.001).Conclusion: Recent FF before THA is associated with an increased postoperative risk for rTHA, PPF and secondary FF. It is thus important to educate patients about the increased risks of these potential complications.NotesPaper #12Impact of Prior Fragility Fractures on Complications After Total Hip ArthroplastyAmy Zhao, BA, Amil R. Agarwal, BA, Alex Gu, MD, Jordan S. Cohen, MD, Rachel Ranson, DO, MS, Gregory J. Golladay, MD, Savyasachi C. Thakkar, MD 29www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Periprosthetic fractures (PPFx) account for of early revisions following total hip arthroplasty (THA). Cemented femoral fixation is associated with lower risk of PPFx, and collared, cementless stem may reduce risk of PPFx as well. The objective of this study was to compare early PPFx rates between cemented, collared and non collared cementless stems in elderly patients. Methods: A consecutive series of 11,522 primary THAs performed between 2016 2021 at our institution in patients >65 years old was identified. Stem types used were categorized as cemented, collared cementless or non collared cementless. Patients undergoing THA with cemented stems were older, more commonly female and more likely to have a posterior approach. In order to reduce confounding of patient characteristics, we matched patients in the 3 stem categories according to age, sex and BMI. This generated 3 groups (cemented, collared cementless and non collared cementless) consisting of 936 patients per group. Mean age of these 2,808 patients was 73 years, mean BMI was 27 and were female. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the odds for early PPFx per stem type. Results: In the entire cohort of primary THA in elderly patients over the study period there were 86 early PPFx (0.). After matching according to age, sex and BMI, non collared cementless stems were associated with increased risk of early PPFx (OR: 2.89; p=0.022) compared to collared cementless stems. There were 0 early PPFx in the matched cemented cohort, 6 early PPFx in the matched collared cementless cohort and 18 early PPFx in the matched non collared cementless cohort ( vs 0. vs 1., p< 0.001). Conclusion: In this large series of elderly patients undergoing primary THA, cemented stem fixation produced lowest incidence of early PPFx, but collared cementless femoral stems had a 3 fold decrease in risk for early PPFx compared to collarless cementless femoral stems.NotesPaper #13How Much Protection Does a Collar Provide? Risk of Early PPFx Following THA in Elderly PatientsSamuel Rodriguez, MD, Simarjeet Puri, BS, Jennifer Bido, MD, Austin C. Kaidi, MD, MSc, Jose A. Rodriguez, MD, Elizabeth B. Gausden, MD, MPH2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program30There is clear history and continued emerging evidence from large studies and registry data supporting the use for cemented femoral stem fixation in hemiarthroplasty and total hip arthroplasty. This includes dramatically lower risk of periprosthetic fractures, reduced overall revision risk and improved functional outcomes in certain patient populations. Yet despite this overwhelming data, cemented stem fixation continues to be utilized in less than of all elective THA in the United States. This is posited to be for several reasons including time and unfamiliarity with the advantages as well as the surgical technique. This symposium will bring together faculty from the US and the UK to address all of these issues and will discuss the history of cement and cemented stem fixation, current indications and advantages as well as surgical techniques.Learning Objectives:1.Review the risk stratification and mitigation of femoral stem fixation and periprosthetic fracture. 2.Gain a better understanding of cement fixation and design history. 3.Elucidate the pros and cons for cemented stem fixation.4.Discuss and review the surgical technique of cemented stem fixation.Outline:Introduction Bryan D. Springer, MDPeriprosthetic Fractures: Registry Data and Risk Stratification Bryan D. Springer, MDCemented Stems: History, Design and Outcomes Matthew J.W. Hubble, FRCSCemented Femoral Stems: What Are the Potential Wins? Jonathan R. Howell, FRCS Cemented Stems: How to Get It Right, Surgical Technique Joseph T. Moskal, MD Discussion All Faculty NotesSymposium IIICemented Femoral Stem Fixation: Back to the Future Moderator: Bryan D. Springer, MD Faculty: Joseph T. Moskal, MD, Jonathan R. Howell, FRCS, Matthew J.W. Hubble, FRCS www.AAHKS.org/Meeting31Introduction: Accurately predicting an arthroplasty patient's postoperative physical function and associated discharge disposition and length of stay is helpful because it allows for preoperative patient optimization, planning, expectation management and a rational allocation of hospital resources. The goal of this study was to determine the capability of the Risk Assessment and Prediction Tool (RAPT) score to predict perioperative function, discharge destination and length of stay in patients undergoing primary THA and TKA. Methods: : Primary unilateral THAs (n=12,270) and TKAs (n=13,043) performed for primary osteoarthritis at our institution from 2018 2021 (excluding March September 2020) were identified using a validated and prospectively maintained database (mean age 65.4; 59. female). We sought to evaluate the associations between preoperative RAPT score and (1) postoperative Activity Measure for Post Acute Care (AM PAC) “6 Clicks” score (2) time to first ambulation, (3) discharge destination and (4) in hospital length of stay, using univariate analysis. Results: RAPT score was inversely associated with AM PAC score among TKA (r=0.38; p< 0.0001) and THA patients (r=0.34; p< 0.001). RAPT score was inversely associated with time to first ambulation in TKA (r= 0.12; p< 0.001) and THA (r= 0.17; p< 0.001). RAPT score was inversely associated with length of stay in TKA (r= 0.36; p< 0.001) and THA (r= 0.38; p< 0.001). RAPT score was significantly higher among patients discharged home compared to patients discharged to an acute or subacute rehabilitation facility in TKA (9.8+/ 1.7 vs. 7.0+/ 2.3; p< 0.001) and THA (9.8+/ 1.8 vs. 6.3+/ 2.3; p< 0.001). Conclusion: RAPT score may be helpful for predicting in hospital course and discharge destination following TKA and THA. In this large retrospective single institution study, higher preoperative RAPT scores were associated with faster postoperative mobilization, improved postoperative physical function, decreased length of stay and discharge to home. Further research should evaluate how psychological and social support factors affect this relationship.NotesPaper #14RAPT Score Predicts Postoperative Function, Length of Stay and Discharge Destination After TKA/THADrake G. Lebrun, MD, Charles M. Fisher, PT, Sharlynn Tuohy, PT, Joseph T. Nguyen, MPH, Alejandro G. Della Valle, MD, Michael P. Ast, MD, Alberto V. Carli, MD, FRCSC 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program32Introduction: Multiple authors have sought to determine what patient characteristics influence outcome after TKA. Age has shown no effect on outcome in some evaluations, while others reported higher functional improvement in younger patients. The aim of this study was to determine if outcome after TKA varies based on patient age. Methods: A prospective, multi center cohort of 11,602 unilateral primary TKA patients was evaluated. PROMs including KOOS(12,JR) were collected pre op and one year postop. Descriptive statistics were stratified by age [<55 years (younger adult), 55 64 years (older adult), 65 74 years (early elder), and ≥75 years (late elder)], and differences in pain, function and QoL among the four age groups evaluated. Multivariate regression model was used to assess the role of patient age as a predictive factor for KOOS scores reported after TKA, while adjusting other variables.Results: Before surgery, patients <55 years reported worse pain, function, and QoL than older patients. One year after TKA, younger patients <55 years reported worse pain, function, and QoL quality of life but better function than older patients (≥75 years). Differences in mean one year scores among the 4 age groups reached the MCID for pain and QoL, but not for function. Younger patients (<55 years) achieved pain (36.8 points), function (30.3 points), and quality of life (40.7 points) improvements from baseline that were comparable to other groups. Regression analysis showed that age was predictive of KOOS pain (P< 0.001) in older patients (≥75 years), when compared to younger patients (<55 years). Age was not predictive of KOOS ADL (p=0.74) in older patients (≥75 years).Conclusion: Large improvements of PROMs were reported 1 year after TKA across all four age groups. Age related differences in pain and QoL exist as patients ≥75 years achieved better pain relief and improved QoL when compared to patients <55 years.NotesPaper #15Age Related Differences in Pain, Function and Quality of Life Following Primary TKADavid C. Ayers, MD, Mohamed Yousef, MD, PhD, Wenyun Yang, MS, Hua Zheng, PhD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting33Introduction: Multiple national database reports have shown higher cumulative percent revision (CPR) and decreased long term survivorship of uncemented TKAs. Despite this finding, uncemented TKAs have increased in popularity particularly with the introduction of new press fit technologies that have shown promising initial results. A state wide quality improvement registry was used to analyze the effect of this fixation shift on outcomes in Michigan. Methods: Data from 2017 through 2019 was analyzed to determine the incidence, distribution, and survival outcomes of cemented vs. uncemented TKAs. CPR was calculated yearly based on fixation method (cemented vs uncemented), including the patella. The primary endpoint was time to first revision using Kaplan Meier survival curves. Sub analysis based on age, gender and implant type was also performed. Confidence intervals were set to . Results: Between 2017 and 2019, uncemented TKAs increased from 7. to 11. in the state. Uncemented TKAs were more likely to be male, younger, heavier and smokers. At 3 years, uncemented TKAs demonstrated a higher CPR of 3.33 (2.60, 4.25) vs. cemented (2.27; 2.07, 2.48). Females had a higher CPR at 3 years with uncemented TKA (3.35; 2.52, 4.44) as compared to cemented (1.96; 1.77, 2.16). Patients over 70 had lower revision hazards with cemented knees (HR 0.969; 0.962, 0.975) as compared to uncemented. Survivorship variations existed between different implants. Conclusion: Despite the increased use of uncemented TKAs, this analysis suggested uncemented knees had an increased risk of revision compared to those that were cemented. Outcomes should be tracked closely as the findings appeared to be both patient and design dependent. Registries should, when possible, report results by implant and fixation method in attempt to distinguish implant design and patient demographics that may portend more successful outcomes. This data supports continued investigation regarding the appropriate utilization of uncemented TKA technologies.NotesPaper #16Uncemented Knee Survivorship Varies by Age and Sex in MARCQIBrendan J. Comer, MD, Dexter T. Powell, MD, Brian R. Hallstrom, MD, Huiyong Zheng, PhD, Richard E. Hughes, PhD, David C. Markel, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program34Paper #17Randomized Clinical Trial of Cementless Tantalum Tibial Components: Durable and Reliable at 10 YearsEmmanuel Gibon, MD, PhD, David G. Lewallen, MD, Dirk R. Larson, MS, Michael J. Stuart, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD, Matthew P. Abdel, MD Introduction: Cementless fixation is gaining popularity for primary total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) largely due to innovations in implant design and surgical technique. We previously reported the 5 year results of our randomized clinical trial (RCT) that included 3 different tibial designs (traditional modular cemented tibia, cemented porous metal tibia and cementless porous metal tibia) and found no differences. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the 10 year results in the same cohort.Methods: Between 2003 2006, 389 patients (389 knees) underwent a primary TKA and were randomized into three groups: traditional modular cemented tibia (132), cemented porous metal tibia (128) and cementless porous metal tibia (129). Implant survivorship (via intention to treat analysis), Knee Society scores (KSSs), range of motion (ROM), complication and radiographs were compared between groups. Mean age at TKA was 68 years, were male and mean BMI was 32 kg/m2. The median follow up was 11 years.Results: The 10 year survivorship free of any revision was similar between all 3 groups at , and (p=0.5) in the cemented traditional tibia, cemented porous metal tibia and cementless porous metal tibia groups, respectively. In addition, the most recent KSSs were similar between all 3 groups at 74, 75 and 79, respectively, as were ROM (104°, 106° and 108°, respectively) and complications. However, traditional modular cemented tibia had significantly more non progressive radiolucent lines below the tibial tray in zones 1 and 4 on AP radiographs (, , , respectively). Conclusion: Cementless porous metal tibial components have excellent implant survivorship (), clinical outcomes and knee motion with less radiolucent lines when compared to cemented modular and cemented porous metal tibial components in a randomized clinical trial at 10 year follow up.Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting35Introduction: While cemented total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has been the gold standard, newer uncemented implants have yielded positive initial results. However, concerns about early failure in older populations persist. We hypothesized that early outcomes and revision rates would be similar using a modern implant, even in older patients. As such, the 90 day outcomes and 2 year revision rates of uncemented TKAs in patients over 75 years were compared to an age matched cohort of cemented TKAs. Methods: A statewide arthroplasty registry was queried for all primary TKAs (01/2016 05/2020) performed in patients >75 years by a single practice in a single hospital. This yielded 150 cementless TKAs that were matched to 150 cemented TKAs for age and sex. The same implant was used in all cases. 90 day ED visits, readmissions, return to the OR and 2 year revision rates were compared. Fisher's exact and Chi squared tests were used for categorical data, and paired t tests for continuous data. Log rank was applied for survival analysis. Results: Cementless TKA had significantly less 90 day post operative events (ED visits, medical readmissions, return to OR) vs cemented (123/150 vs. 104/150; p=.011). There were more deep vein thromboses in cemented TKAs (0 vs. 5, p=.024). There were 5 total revisions in each cohort. The uncemented cohort had 2 fractures requiring revision and 3 periprosthetic joint infections (PJI). The cemented cohort had one TKA revised for pain/stiffness, 3 PJI, and one TKA revised for unknown reasons. The survival analysis yielded no difference between cohorts at 2 years (p=.431). Conclusion: Cementless TKAs performed as well or better than a matched cemented cohort in patients >75 years old for 90 day outcomes and 2 year (early) revision rates. The data supports continued investigation regarding optimal indications and patient selection when utilizing uncemented TKA technologies.NotesPaper #18Cementless TKA in Patients Over Seventy Five: A Single Practice Review Using Statewide Registry DataBrendan J. Comer, MD, David C. Markel, MD, Michael Fry, MD, Dexter T. Powell, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program36Introduction: Aseptic loosening persists as one of the leading causes of failure following cemented primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Surgical factors, specifically cement technique, may impact implant fixation. We hypothesized that there is significant variability in TKA cement technique amongst arthroplasty surgeons. Methods: A 28 question survey regarding variables in a surgeon's preferred TKA cementation technique was distributed to 2,791 current AAHKS members. Descriptive statistics were performed. Results: Questions that demonstrated the most consensus included vacuum mixing of cement (80.), the use of two packages (76.), tibial implant first (95.), cementing all implants in a single stage () and compression of the implants in extension (92.). While the use of a tourniquet was common (82.), there was significant variability in the duration and timing. Low viscosity cement represented the lowest use (22.) compared to medium and high viscosity (38. and 36. respectively). Finger pressurization was the most common (77.) and often based on consistency or timing of cement curing (72.). Of interest, while the tibial implant was commonly precoated, 2. of respondents reported not precoating the tibial implant compared to only 0. with the femoral component (p=0.016). The tibial bone was more commonly fully precoated (73.) compared to the femur which was most commonly partially precoated (67.) (p< 0.001). Conclusion: There appears to be substantial variability in cemented TKA technique amongst arthroplasty surgeons. We noted relative consensus (>) with regards to vacuum mixing of cement, order of cementation and two batches. Greater variation was present in cement viscosity, application to bone and implant, bone preparation, tourniquet use and steps taken prior to cement curing. Further studies that look at the impacts of variable techniques on outcomes may be warranted. NotesPaper #19Variables in TKA Cementing Technique Amongst Arthroplasty Surgeons A Survey of the AAHKS MembersChristopher E. Pelt, MD, Michael J. Archibeck, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc, Gregory G. Polkowski, MD, J. Ryan Martin, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting37Introduction: Up to one third of patients undergoing primary elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) report symptoms of psychological distress. The Veterans RAND 12 Item Health Survey (VR 12) mental component score (MCS) is a patient reported outcome measure quantifying mental health problems, vitality and social functioning. To date, a quantifiable risk threshold for baseline VR 12 MCS has not been developed. We aimed to determine 1) VR 12 MCS distribution for patients undergoing primary THA; and 2) thresholds that predict higher healthcare utilization and 1 year patient reported outcome measures (PROMs).Methods: A prospective cohort of 4,194 primary THA patients (January 2016 December 2019) were included. Multivariable and cubic spline regression models were used to test for associations between preoperative VR 12 MCS and postoperative outcomes including: 90 day hospital resource utilization (non home discharge, prolonged length of stay[LOS](i.e.≥3 days), all cause readmission), attainment of Patient Acceptable Symptom State(PASS) at 1 year postoperative, as well as Substantial Clinical Benefit (SCB) in the Hip Disability, Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) pain, and HOOS physical short form ( PS).Results: Lower VR 12 MCS was independently associated with older age (p< 0.001), obesity (p< 0.001), Black race (p< 0.001), females (p< 0.001) and smokers (p< 0.001). Preoperative VR 12 MCS< 20 was associated with more than twice the odds of non home discharge (odds ratio [OR]:2.31, confidence interval [CI]:1.00 4.94) and prolonged LOS (OR:3.46, CI:1.72 6.80). VR 12 MCS >60 was associated with increased odds of achieving PASS (OR:2.00, CI:1.52 2.68), and SCB in HOOS JR (OR:1.16, CI:1.00 1.35). Spline regression models demonstrated that starting VR 12 MCS ≤40 there were exponentially higher odds of poorer outcomes. Conclusion: Low preoperative VR 12 MCS, specifically less than 40 (or >1 standard deviation away from the mean of the general population), may predict increased healthcare utilization. Further, preoperative VR 12 MCS>60 predicts greater overall satisfaction at 1 year as well as achieving SCB in HOOS JR. Quantifiable thresholds for VR 12 MCS may aid in shared decision making and patient counseling in setting expectations or may guide specific care pathway interventions to address mental health during THA.NotesPaper #20Preoperative VR 12 Mental Composite Score >60 Associated with Increased Satisfaction Post THAAhmed K. Emara, MD, Daniel Grits, BS, Melissa N. Orr, BS, Pedro J. Rullan, MD, Trevor G. Murray, MD, Carlos A. Higuera, MD, Viktor E. Krebs, MD, Robert M. Molloy, MD, Nicolas S. Piuzzi, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program38Introduction: Previous studies have shown lower morbidity and mortality rates during total hip arthroplasty (THA) at academic teaching hospitals. This study sought to determine the relationship between hospital teaching status and PROMs following primary THA using the American Joint Replacement Registry (AJRR) data.Methods: Using AJRR data from 2012 2020, 4,447 primary, elective THAs with both preoperative and one year postoperative HOOS, JR scores were analyzed. This study was powered to detect the minimal clinically important difference (MCID). The main exposure variable was hospital teaching status. Three cohorts were formed based on hospital teaching status as defined by the American Hospital Association (AHA) Data Survey Fiscal Year 2015: major teaching hospital, minor teaching hospital and non teaching hospital. Mean preoperative and one year postoperative HOOS, JR scores were compared.Results: Preoperative HOOS, JR scores (non teaching: 49.69±14.42 vs. major teaching: 47.68±15.10 vs. minor teaching: 42.46±19.19, p< 0.001) were significantly higher at non teaching hospitals than at major and minor teaching hospitals, and these differences persisted at one year postoperatively (87.40±15.14 vs. 83.87±16.68 vs. 80.37±19.27, p< 0.001). Both preoperative and postoperative differences in HOOS, JR scores were less than the MCID at both time points. In multivariate regression, non teaching and minor teaching hospitals had similar odds of MCID achievement in HOOS, JR scores compared to major teaching hospitals.Conclusion: Using the HOOS, JR score as a validated patient reported outcome measure, undergoing primary THA at an academic teaching hospital did not correlate with higher postoperative HOOS, JR scores or greater chances of MCID achievement in HOOS, JR scores compared to non teaching hospitals. Further study is required to determine the most important factors leading to the greatest degree of improvement in patient reported outcomes following THA.NotesPaper #21Hospital Teaching Status and Patient Related Outcomes Following Primary THA—an AJRR StudyChristian T. Oakley, BS, Jerrt Arraut, BS, Simon Lalehzarian, MD, Jeremiah Thomas, BS, Vinay K. Aggarwal, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc, Joshua C. Rozell, MDwww.AAHKS.org/Meeting39Introduction: Various socioeconomic disparities exist in total hip arthroplasty (THA) patients; however, most studies on this topic contain small sample sizes and few control for confounding variables. This study aims to evaluate postoperative outcomes and survivorship after THA in patients of different races and is the first to our knowledge to analyze these rates with a large scale multivariate regression analysis.Methods: Patients who underwent a primary unilateral THA were identified in the New York Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) database with ICD 9/10 PCS codes, excluding patients with hip fractures or oncologic diagnoses. Patients were stratified into four groups based on race: white, black, Hispanic, or Asian. Categorical variables and continuous variables were compared, and revision free survival was calculated using Kaplan Meier survival analysis. Multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression was used to calculate revision hazard ratios. Results: In total, 203,443 white, 19,282 black, 11,669 Hispanic and 2,179 Asian patients were identified. Across races, the most common indication for surgery was osteoarthritis. Length of stay, discharge disposition, postoperative anemia, blood transfusions, three month inpatient readmission and emergency room visit rates, and three and 12 month periprosthetic joint infection rates were all worse in minority races (p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p=0.014, p=0.003, respectively); however, twelve month mortality rates were similar. Regression analysis demonstrated that black race had a slightly lower risk of revision than white patients (HR: 0.90, CI: 0.82 0.98, p=0.021). There were no significant differences across all races in the cumulative revision event rate up to 10 years postoperatively. Conclusion: Primary THA patients of minority race are more likely to have worse short term outcomes and complications. However, the overall rates of revision are similar across races, with a slightly lower rate of revisions in black patients after controlling for confounding factors.NotesPaper #22Does Race Predict Outcomes and Revision Rates after Primary Total Hip Arthroplasty?Jaclyn A. Konopka, MD, Utkarsh Anil, MD, Charles C. Lin, MD, Claudette M. Lajam, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program40Introduction: In patients with concomitant hip and lumbar spine disease the questions of which surgery, total hip arthroplasty (THA) or lumbar spine fusion (LSF) should be done first has not been adequate answered. Previous investigations have noted increased risk of dislocation after THA in patients with LSF but it is not clear if the risk is decreased if the LSF is delayed. We aimed to evaluate risk of dislocation after THA in patients with LSF within one year prior to or after THA. Methods: A retrospective review was performed (Medicare Standard Analytical Files from the PearlDiver database) by querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision (ICD 10) procedure codes for LSF in the year prior to (LSF first group) or in the year after THA (THA first group). We identified post operative hip dislocation as our primary outcome variable. Demographic data collected included age, sex and obesity. Risk of dislocation was described as a proportion of the cohort with chi square tests. Results: We identified 312,947 patients with THA from 2012 2019. Of these, there were 1,593 in the LSF first group and 755 in the THA first group. There was no difference in age, sex or obesity between the LSF first and THA first groups. No difference in rate of dislocation was noted comparing rates of dislocation in the LSF first 77/1,593 (4.) to the THA first groups 36/755 (4.), p=1). Conclusion: There was no difference in the risk dislocation after THA if a LSF is performed prior to or after THA. This can help surgeons as they counsel patients with concomitant lumbar spine and hip degeneration. Additionally, this suggests that decreased spine mobility leading to increased risk of dislocation is likely present in lumbar degeneration and not caused by surgical fusion.NotesPaper #23No Difference in Risk of Dislocation with Lumbar Spine Fusion Prior to or After Total Hip ArthroplastySebastian Welling, MD, Ryland P. Kagan, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Travis C. Philipp, MD, Jung Yoo, MD 41www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Risk for dislocation after total hip arthroplasty (THA) is increased with prior lumbar spine fusion (LSF), potentially related to decreased spine mobility. However, prior LSF patients also have elevated rates of opioid use. We aimed to evaluate the influence of opioid use at the time of THA and the risk of dislocation in patients with prior LSF.Methods: A retrospective review was performed (Medicare Standard Analytical Files from the PearlDiver database) by querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision procedure codes for LSF and THA. Patients with post operative hip dislocation were identified, and patients were stratified to opioid use within 90 days prior to THA. Multivariate analysis with adjusted ORs evaluated the association of opioid use and dislocation after adjusting for demographic characteristics: age, sex, obesity.Results: We identified 312,947 patients with THA from 2015 2020. 16,864 had LSF prior to THA, 9,341 with opioid prior to THA and 7,523 without. In patients with prior LSF there was increased odds for dislocation for opioid use at THA (aOR = 1.82, CI 1.75, 1.89, p< 0.00001) compared to those without. There was no difference in odds for dislocation in LSF patients without opioid at THA compared to THA patients without prior LSF, (aOR = 1.10, CI 0.85 1.41, p 0.456).Conclusion: There are increased odds for dislocation in patients with prior LSF if opioid use was present at time of THA. However, LSF patients without opioid use at time of THA have similar risks for dislocation to patients without LSF. This suggests that the increased risk of dislocation in LSF patients is not fully explained by decreased spine mobility and factors such as pain or altered sensorium related to opioid use should be considered.NotesPaper #24Blame the Opioid not the Spine Surgeon: Dislocation After Total Hip Arthroplasty with Prior Lumbar SurgeryRyland P. Kagan, MD, Sebastian Welling, MD, Travis C. Philipp, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Jung Yoo, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program42Introduction: The purpose of this study was to investigate metal ion levels in patients at a minimum five year follow up after dual mobility (MDM) total hip arthroplasty (THA) implantation. Specifically, we analyzed: (1) Overall blood and urine cobalt levels; (2) Overall blood and urine chromium levels; (3) Cobalt levels stratified by length of follow up and various implant related metrics (i.e., offset, cup size, stem, and neck angle); as well as (4) Chromium levels stratified by length of follow up and these various implant related metrics. Methods: Cobalt and chromium serum and plasma, blood, as well as urine levels of 41 MDM THAs were obtained. Additional parameters analyzed included: head material and size, stem offset, cup size, as well as stem neck angle. Results: Concentrations of cobalt were low as the mean blood and urine levels for all patients were 0.6ug/L (normal< 1.8ug/L) and 0.8ug/L (normal< 2.8ug/L), respectively. One patient had minimally elevated blood cobalt level by 0.1ug/L. These levels were not substantially different when subgroup analyses were performed for ceramic and cobalt chrome heads. Mean chromium levels in blood and urine were also found to be low for all patients as values were 0.8ug/L (normal< 1.2ug/L) and 1.2ng/mL (normal< 2ng/mL), respectively. Similarly, only one patient had a very slightly elevated blood chromium level of 1.3ug/L. Additionally, analyses of ceramic or cobalt chrome heads separately did not demonstrate differences in blood or urine levels. Blood cobalt or chromium concentrations had minimal changes with longer lengths of follow ups, or with different stem offsets, cup sizes, stems or neck angles. Conclusion: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate low levels of metal ions at longer than four year follow up. These data may be of importance to surgeons deciding on the appropriate implants to use for their high risk patients.NotesPaper #25Are Metal Ion Levels Elevated After Dual Mobility Acetabular Systems: Minimum Five Year Analyses Steven F. Harwin, MD, Zhongming Chen, MD, Nipun Sodhi, MD, Michael A. Mont, MDwww.AAHKS.org/Meeting43Introduction: Modular dual mobility (DM) articulations are increasingly utilized during total hip arthroplasty (THA) to enhance construct stability. However, concerns remain regarding the potential for adverse local tissue reactions secondary to metal ion release. The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of metal artifact reduction sequence magnetic resonance imaging (MARS MRI) abnormalities in asymptomatic primary THA patients with DM articulations and correlate these findings with serum metal ion levels. Methods: All patients with a pain free primary elective THA, DM articulation and >2 year follow up were screened for inclusion. Patients underwent MARS MRI of the operative hip and had serum cobalt, chromium and titanium levels drawn. Patient satisfaction, Oxford Hip score and Forgotten Joint Score 12 (FJS 12) were collected. Fellowship trained musculoskeletal radiologists blinded to serum metal ion levels read each MARS MRI. Results: Twenty two patients (24 hips) with a DM articulation were included with average age of 67.6±8.1 years and average BMI of 29.7±4.8 kg/m2. At mean follow up of 3.7±1.0 years (range: 2.1 5.8), mean patient satisfaction was 4.9/5, Oxford Hip Score was 44.0±3.7 (range: 35 48) and FJS 12 score was 81.5±17.6 (range: 43.2 100.0). Three patients (12.) had serum cobalt levels >1.0 μg/L (range: 1.4 3.4 μg/L). Of these, two patients had abnormal periprosthetic fluid collection on MARS MRI with associated serum cobalt levels >3.0 μg/L. Another two patients (8.) were noted to have greater trochanteric bursitis on MARS MRI, both with serum cobalt levels <1.0 μg/L. Serum cobalt levels were <1.0 μg/L in 16/17 remaining patients (94.) without MARS MRI abnormalities; the final patient had a cobalt level of 1.4 μg/L. One patient (4.) had serum chromium level >3.0 μg/L with associated abnormal periprosthetic fluid collection. None of the patients had serum titanium levels >5.0 μg/L. Conclusion: Approximately 1 in 12 well functioning patients with DM articulations had elevated serum cobalt levels associated with abnormal fluid collections identifiable on MARS MRI.NotesPaper #26MARS MRI Abnormalities in Asymptomatic Primary THA Patients with Dual Mobility Hip Prostheses Nathanael D. Heckmann, MD, Brian C. H. Chung, MD, Xiao T. Chen, MD, Luke R. Lovro, MD, Eric White, MD, Alexander B. Christ, MD, Donald B. Longjohn, MD, Daniel A. Oakes, MD, Jay R. Lieberman, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program44The moderator will conduct a poll of the membership using an audience response system with real time display of results and commentary and will ask the audience a series of questions about their current practices in perioperative and intraoperative management of primary THA and TKA. The audience will respond using the audience response system and results will be displayed immediately. The moderator will weave in comparison of the current year's responses to data gathered in previous years to demonstrate areas of practice evolution. The symposium will place emphasis on areas of rapid practice change. Learning Objectives:1.Identify what AAHKS peers are currently doing for perioperative management of primary THA and TKA and how this has changed in the key areas in the past two years.2.Identify what AAHKS peers are currently doing with respect to intraoperative decisions, choices, and practices in primary THA and TKA and how this has changed in the past two years.Outline:IntroductionPrimary THA: Perioperative management Primary THA: Intraoperative decisions/choices/practices Primary TKA: Perioperative management Primary TKA: Intraoperative decisions/choices/practicesDiscussionNotesSymposium IVPractice Norms in Primary Hip and Knee Arthroplasty: What is Everyone Else Doing? Moderator: Daniel J. Berry, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting45Introduction: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a life changing event. Many patients stop smoking prior to their elective surgery as part of preoperative optimization. However, it is unknown how many of these patients relapse to smoking after their surgery. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of smoking relapse and its association with periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) in a large non select cohort of patients. Methods: We conducted a multicenter study and retrospectively identified patients who underwent primary TKA between 2000 and 2020. Patients were stratified into four groups: current smokers (A), former smokers (B), ceased smoking for the procedure (C), and nonsmokers (D). Patients were followed for at least two years and the relapsed cases were identified. The association between smoking status and PJI was investigated using multivariate regression analysis. Results: 16,322 patients were identified who underwent 19,986 total knee arthroplasties during the study period. Of these patients, 1,352 (8.) were current smokers, 4,522 (27.) were former smokers, 3,575 (21.) ceased smoking for their procedure and 6,873 (42.) were nonsmokers. Current smokers were significantly more likely than nonsmokers to undergo reoperation for infection (OR:2.12[CI:1.42 3.25];p=0.04), and former smokers were at no increased risk (OR,1.12[CI,0.63 1.45];p=0.71). Of group C patients only 1,258 (35.) had relapse within two years after surgery. The rate of infection was significantly higher in patients who returned to smoking compared to those who didn’t (5. vs. 0.; OR:2.1[ CI, 1.53 2.44]).Conclusion: Majority of patients who stopped smoking did not have a relapse within two years after surgery. It appears that TKA not only can improve patients’ functionality but also is a turning point that prevents future smoking in majority of patients. Smoking is a major risk factor for PJI and patients who return to smoking are at a higher risk.NotesPaper #27Total Knee Arthroplasty Can Save Lungs Alisina Shahi, MD, PhD, Ali R. Oliashirazi, MD, Matthew L. Brown, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program46Introduction: The optimal administration of dexamethasone for postoperative pain management and recovery following primary, elective total knee arthroplasty (TKA) remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of a second intravenous (IV) dose of dexamethasone on postoperative pain scores, inpatient opioid consumption and functional recovery after primary elective TKA. Methods: A retrospective review of 1,951 patients who underwent primary elective TKA between May 2020 and April 2021 was conducted. A total of 399 patients who received two perioperative doses (2D) of dexamethasone 10 mg IV were propensity matched 1:1 to a control group of 399 patients who received one perioperative dose (1D) of dexamethasone 10 mg IV. To assess the primary outcome of opiate consumption, nursing documented opiate administration events were converted into morphine milligram equivalences (MMEs) for consecutive 24 hour postoperative intervals. Postoperative pain and functional status were also assessed using the Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) for pain and the Activity Measure for Post Acute Care (AM PAC) scores, respectively. Results: A total of 798 patients were included in the analysis (1D = 399, 2D = 399). Compared to the 1D control group, the 2D group demonstrated significantly lower overall inpatient opiate consumption (33.4±59.3 vs. 54.2±119.0 MME; 38. decrease, p=0.004) and lower VRS pain scores at 36 48 hours (4.70±2.03 vs. 5.27±1.84; p=0.021) and 48 60 hours (4.71±2.07 vs. 5.50±2.08; p=0.020) postoperatively. The 2D cohort also had a shorter hospital length of stay (1.61±1.21 vs. 1.87±2.34 days; p=0.048) than the 1D control group. AM PAC scores did not significantly differ between cohorts. Conclusion: The administration of a second perioperative dexamethasone dose significantly decreased opioid consumption in the immediate postoperative period. Length of stay and inpatient opioid administration can be significantly reduced while maintaining a comparable functional recovery and superior pain control.NotesPaper #28Second Dose of Dexamethasone Reduces Opioid Consumption, Pain and Length of Stay in Primary TKA Jerry Arraut, BS, Christian T. Oakley, BS, Mark Kurapatti, BS, Omid S. Barzideh, MD, Joshua C. Rozell, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc www.AAHKS.org/Meeting47Introduction: Recent data suggest that aspirin may be as effective at preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE) as other commonly utilized agents such as warfarin. However, all data to date is limited by selection bias as many surgeons who use aspirin selectively give high risk patients alternative agents. Therefore, this study aims to compare rates of VTE in patients who received aspirin compared to warfarin while accounting for surgeon selection bias using instrumental variable analysis (IVA). Methods: The Premier Database was queried to identify patients undergoing primary elective total knee (TKA) or total hip arthroplasty (THA) from 2015 2020. Patients who underwent THA or TKA by surgeons who used aspirin in > of their patients were compared to patients whose surgeon utilized warfarin in > of their patients. Patients were grouped based on their surgeon allocation regardless of the regimen they received. Univariate and multivariate analysis was performed to assess the 90 day risk of pulmonary embolism (PE), deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and bleeding complications. IVA was performed to account for surgeon selection bias using surgeon preference as an instrument. Results: Overall, 175,707 patients were identified in the aspirin surgeon cohort and 39,681 patients in the warfarin surgeon cohort. In the aspirin surgeon cohort, 93. received aspirin and in the warfarin surgeon cohort, 96. received warfarin. Rates of DVT (0. vs. 0., p=0.336) and PE (0. vs. 0., p=0.180) were not significantly different between cohorts. IVA demonstrated an increased risk for DVT (OR 1.07, p=0.018), decreased risk of transfusion (OR 0.70, p< 0.001) and no difference in the risk of PE (OR 1.01, p=0.798) associated with the aspirin cohort compared to warfarin cohort. These findings were consistent on multivariate analysis. Conclusion: After accounting for surgeon selection bias, aspirin use was associated with an increased risk for DVT but decreased risk for transfusion compared to warfarin. These data call for high quality randomized trials to assess the efficacy of aspirin compared.NotesPaper #29Aspirin and Venous Thromboembolism Following Total Joint Arthroplasty: An Analysis of Efficacy Nathanael D. Heckmann, MD, Amit S. Piple, MD, Jennifer C. Wang, BS, Daniel A. Oakes, MD, Alexander B. Christ, MD, Jay R. Lieberman, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program48Introduction: Outpatient physical therapy following knee arthroplasty has been standard practice; however evidence suggests in person physical therapy (PT) may not be necessary for all patients. This study aimed to provide mid term follow up data from a study that demonstrated reduced PT use with a mobile application for self directed rehabilitation. Methods: This study presents mid term follow up data from a multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled trial comparing a smartphone based care management platform (sbCMP) to standard of care following knee arthroplasty procedures. KOOS JR scores one year postoperatively and changes from baseline scores were compared between control and treatment group using t tests. Results: 245 patients were randomized to the control group and 160 patients received the sbCMP following knee arthroplasty. Baseline patient characteristics including gender, age, BMI and KOOS JR were similar between control and treatment groups. 60. of patients prescribed the sbCMP utilized adjunct PT postoperatively. The change in KOOS JR scores from preoperative levels were similar at one year (32.2±16.6 vs 31.3±17.6 points, p=0.70). Overall KOOS JR scores were similar between controls and the sbCMP group at one year (83.0±14.9 vs 84.0 ±14.0, p=0.6). Those in the treatment group not requiring adjunct PT had significantly higher KOOS JR compared to controls at one year postoperatively (88.7±11.8 vs 83.0±14.9, p=0.01). Conclusion: A sbCMP can be effectively used to guide rehabilitation after knee arthroplasty and can help avoid the need for outpatient PT. Mid term follow up data suggests equivalent outcomes for those requiring adjunct PT compared to controls and those using the sbCMP alone.NotesPaper #30One Year Outcomes of Smartphone Based Care Management Platform After Total Knee Arthroplasty David A. Crawford, MD, Paul J. Duwelius, MD, Adolph V. Lombardi, Jr., MD, FACS, Keith R. Berend, MD, Alexander M. DeHaan, MD, Roberta E. Redfern, PhD 49www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: A recent consensus meeting reported caution when performing medial UKA in patients with lateral patellar facet osteoarthritis (LPFOA). The purpose was to determine if LPFOA revealed lower survivorship or patient reported outcomes following medial UKA. Methods: 144 fixed bearing medial UKAs were performed by a single surgeon and included. Patient selection used a specific clinical algorithm. LPFOA was defined as Outerbridge grade 3 or 4 on the lateral patellar facet. Same day knee arthroscopy was performed to examine the patella prior to UKA and chondral damage was recorded. Open patelloplasty was performed in all patients with LPFOA. Patients completed a subjective questionnaire to determine Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS) for KOOS subscales (ADL, Sport, QOL) and clinical exam at minimum 5 year follow up. Results: 109 patients did not have LPFOA and 35 patients had LPFOA (7 isolated LPFOA; 28 both medial/lateral PFOA). Patients with noLPFOA were younger than those with LPFOA (63±9 vs. 69±10years; p=0.006). There were more females in the LPFOA group () compared to the noLPFOA () (p=0.032). Four patients in the noLPFOA group required TKA, while no revisions were performed in the LPFOA cohort. There was no difference in mean survival time: noLPFOA=9.6 [CI:8.9 10.3] and LPFOA=10.4 [CI:9.3 11.4] (p=0.25). At mean follow up of 10 years, there was no difference in knee flexion (noLPFOA=129°, LPFOA=130°; p=0.439) or extension (noLPFOA=0.46°, LPFOA=0.52°; p=0.886). PASS KOOS ADL was achieved in in the noLPFOA group and in the LPFOA group (p=0.807). PASS KOOS Sport was achieved in in the noLPFOA group and in the LPFOA group (p=0.441). PASS KOOS QOL was achieved in in the noLPFOA group, and in the LPFOA group (p=0.723). Conclusion: At mean 10 years, there were no differences in survivorship or outcomes in patients with and without LPFOA. These long term results support the use of fixed bearing medial UKA in patients with LPFOA, however, clinical and radiologic patient selection algorithms are essential.NotesPaper #31Lateral Patella Facet OA Is Not Contraindicated for Medial UKA: Mean 10 Year Outcomes & Survivorship Kevin D. Plancher, MD, MPH, Karina Wang, BS, Sarah Commaroto, Kathryn Dotterweich, Karen K. Briggs, MPH, Stephanie C. Petterson, PhD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program50Introduction: Functional alignment (FA) strives to balance the knee soft tissue envelope during total knee arthroplasty (TKA) using implant alignment adjustments rather than soft tissue releases. There is an ongoing debate for how best to achieve FA. We compare 2 year outcomes between FA with a mechanical alignment plan [FA(m)] and FA with a kinematic alignment plan [FA(k)]. The null hypothesis is that coronal limb alignment achieved will be the same between FA(m) and FA(k) techniques, and there will be no difference in 2 year outcomes.Methods: Prospective data was collected from 300 consecutive primary TKAs [135 FA(m) and 165 FA(k)]. Functional alignment was achieved by adjusting implant alignment from the MA or KA starting plan to achieve balance with robotic assistance. Patient reported outcomes were obtained pre operatively and 2 years post operatively ( follow up). The coronal plane alignment of the knee (CPAK) classification was used to classify knee alignment phenotypes. Results: Overall limb alignment was equivalent between groups. Final implant alignment was different between FA(m) and FA(k) groups, with FA(k) TKAs having higher tibial varus (p< 0.01), higher femoral valgus (p< 0.01), higher joint line obliquity (p< 0.01) and more femoral internal rotation relative to the TEA (p< 0.01). Patients reported higher FJS 12 scores with FA(k) TKAs (79.4 versus 71.6, p=0.018), and greater range of motion (125° versus 121°; p=0.003). Patients with constitutional varus (CPAK Type I) knees reported the greatest improvement in outcomes when comparing FA(k) versus FA(m) TKAs (FJS at 2 years of 89 versus 65; p< 0.001).Conclusion: Utilizing an implant alignment plan that considers a patient's native joint line (FA(k)) led to a final implant position with greater joint line obliquity, yet the same overall limb alignment. This was associated with improved outcomes at 2 years post TKA. Three dimensional component position and joint line obliquity affect outcomes independent of coronal limb alignment.Notes Paper #32Individualized Functional Alignment Improves Clinical Outcomes in TKA Patients with Constitutional Varus Gavin W. Clark, FRACS, Dermot Collopy, MD, Richard Steer, MD, Nazim Khan, PhD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting51Introduction: Rotating Platform (RP) bearings in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) have the potential to reduce polyethylene wear and improve patellar tracking due to axial freedom. However, concerns for increased risk of revision have been described due to the associated tibial component design, added complexity with balance and risk of bearing dislocation. We examine the risk of revision with use of RP compared to fixed bearing (FB) designs in TKA. Methods: An analysis of primary TKA cases in patients age >65 years was performed with American Joint Replacement Registry data linked to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services data from 2012 2019. Patient demographics, and cause for revision were recorded. Analysis compared RP to FB designs using Cox proportional regression modeling for all cause and revision for infection, adjusting for gender, age and the competing risk of mortality. Event free survival curves evaluated time to revision for all cause and revision for infection. Results: We identified 485,024 TKAs, with 452,199 (93.) FB and 32,825 (6.) RP bearings. Compared to FB the RP were at increased risk for all cause revision HR 1.36 ([ CI 1.24, 1.49], p< 0.0001). There was no difference in revision for infection, HR 1.06 ([ CI 0.90, 1.25], p=0.516). Event free survival curves demonstrated increased risk for all cause revision for RP bearings across all time points, with a greater magnitude of risk as time elapsed out to 8 years. Conclusion: Similar to other national registry investigations, RP designs in this study demonstrated increased risk for all cause revision. Given no difference in risk of revision for infection, additional investigation is needed to determine if the increased failure rates could be related to unaccounted for patient selection factors, surgical technique, bearing issues or potentially implant related issues including tibial baseplate fixation.Notes The James A. Rand Young Investigator's AwardIncreased Revision Risk with Rotating Platform Bearings in Total Knee Arthroplasty Vishal Hegde, MD, Jamil S. Kendall, MD, Kathryn L. Schabel, MD, Christopher E. Pelt, MD, Patrick J. Yep, MPH, Kyle Mullen, MPH, Ayushmita De, PhD, Ryland P. Kagan, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program52Introduction: Whether to resurface the patella during total knee arthroplasty (TKA) remains debated. One often cited reason for not resurfacing is inadequate patellar thickness. However, when left un resurfaced, this cohort has known relatively high revision rates. The aim of this study is to describe the implant survivorships, reoperations, complications and clinical outcomes in patients who underwent patellar resurfacing of a thin native patella. Methods: Our institutional total joint registry was used to identify patients undergoing primary TKA with patellar resurfacing from 2000 to 2010. Of the 11,333 identified patients, 200 (1.) had a pre resection patellar thickness of ≤19mm. Pre resection and post resection patella thickness was measured intraoperatively using calipers. Median pre resection and post resection thickness was 19 (range 12 19) and 12.5 (range 10 17), respectively. Mean age was 69 years, mean BMI 31 kg/m2, and were female. Indications for surgery included: osteoarthritis (n=153), rheumatoid arthritis (n=33), post traumatic arthritis (n=14). Median follow up was 10 years (range 2 20). Results: At 10 years, survivorships free of any patella revision, patella related reoperation, periprosthetic patella fracture and patella related complication were , , , and , respectively. There were 2 patella revisions: 1 for aseptic loosening and 1 for PJI. There were 2 additional patella related reoperations, both arthroscopic synovectomies for patellar clunk. Two patients underwent MUA. There were 3 periprosthetic patella fractures managed nonoperatively, all with well fixed components and intact extensor mechanisms. Radiographically, the patella appeared well fixed in all non revised knees. Knee society scores improved from mean 36 preoperatively to mean 81 at 10 years postoperatively. Conclusion: Resurfacing the thin native patella was associated with high survivorship free of patellar revision at 10 year follow up. None the less there was one case of patellar loosening and 3 periprosthetic patella fractures. These risks must be weighed against the known higher incidence of revision when the thin native patella is left un resurfaced.NotesAAHKS Surgical Techniques and Technologies AwardResurfacing the Thin Native Patella: Is It Safe? Jacob M. Wilson, MD, Mikaela H. Sullivan, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD, Robert T. Trousdale, MD 53www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Dexamethasone has been shown to reduce pain in total joint arthroplasty beyond a single preoperative dose, and extended duration of steroid use has precedence for nausea prevention during some chemotherapy regimens. This double blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial investigates the postoperative effects and safety of oral dexamethasone as a potential augment to multimodal use in outpatient knee arthroplasty. Methods: The authors prospectively randomized 109 consecutive patients undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty at one institution. Patients were assigned to one of two groups: Group A (57 patients) received 4 mg of dexamethasone by mouth twice per day starting postoperative day (POD) one for four days and Group B received placebo capsules. All healthcare professionals and patients were blinded to group allocation. The primary outcome was defined as postoperative pain scores for POD 1 7. Secondary outcomes included 90 day postoperative complications, nausea and vomiting, daily opioid usage, assistance for ambulation, difficulty sleeping and early patient reported outcomes. Results: Demographics and comorbidities were similar between groups. The patients who received dexamethasone had statistically significant decrease in VAS scores when averaging POD 1 4 (p=0.01). The average VAS scores amongst individual days were significantly lower with dexamethasone on POD 2 4. While taking dexamethasone, morning and midday VAS scores were significantly lower. The dexamethasone group took less oxycodone than the placebo group, but this was not statistically significant (p> 0.05). There was no difference between the groups with nausea or vomiting, 90 day complications, ability to walk with/without assistance, difficulty sleeping and early patient reported outcomes (Table 2). Conclusion: This double blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial demonstrated that oral dexamethasone following primary total knee arthroplasty reduces pain scores postoperatively when added to a multimodal pain control regimen. This stands as a beneficial and safe option in ambulatory surgery where patients are unable to receive the traditional postoperative intravenous dose of dexamethasone.NotesAAHKS Clinical Research AwardOral Dexamethasone Following Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Double Blind, Randomized Controlled Trial Jonathan H. Shaw, MD, Luke D. Wesemann, BS, Trevor R. Banka, MD, Wayne T. North, MD, Michael A. Charters, MD, Jason J. Davis, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program54This symposium will provide the latest information on a hotly debated topic in total knee replacement. With the recent spike in interest in alternative alignment techniques and with the advent of new technologies, surgeons are slowly evolving away from classical mechanical alignment. However, the literature is polluted with confusing terminology and techniques. Audience members will leave with an understanding of knee alignment and a simple/easy way to incorporate it into their practice. Learning Objectives:1.To identify the differences in alignments techniques for total knee arthroplasty.2.To review how to a perform each technique using conventional instruments and/or computer assisted technologies.3.To review native knee kinematics and when to utilize each technique.Outline:Introduction Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD How do you Define all these Different Alignment Strategies? Fares S. Haddad, FRCS Knee Phenotypes Does this Really Matter? Michael T. Hirschmann, MD Is Mechanical Alignment still the Gold Standard or Should we Consider Alternative Alignments for TKA? Mark W. Pagnano, MDHow to Safely Introduce these Strategies into your Practice? Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Discussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VCurrent Concepts in Alignment in Total Knee Replacement Moderator: Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Faculty: Fares S. Haddad, FRCS, Michael T. Hirschmann, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting55Introduction: Pre operative factors can complicate the post operative course and increase healthcare utilization following total hip arthroplasty (THA). Fibromyalgia is not generally recognized as a modifiable risk factor prior to THA and the aim of this investigation was to assess its effect on post operative healthcare utilization following THA.Methods: A retrospective review using Medicare Standard Analytical Files (PearlDiver Database) was performed querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision (ICD 10) procedures codes for THA procedures between 2015 2020. Patient demographics, age, sex, pre operative opioid use were collected. Analysis compared patients with or without fibromyalgia for post operative healthcare utilization metrics, length of stay (LOS), 90 day post operative opioid use, dislocation and emergency room visits. Independent t test was used to compare LOS and rates of ongoing opioid use. Logistic regression analysis with adjusted Odds Ratios (aORs) evaluated the association of fibromyalgia and odds for dislocation or emergency room visit after adjustment for demographic characteristics. Results: 28,138 patients with THA were identified over the study period, 1,455 (5.) carried the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The patients with fibromyalgia were younger (62.6 ± 10.1 vs 66.5 ± 10.6, p< 0.0001) and more likely to be female (8. vs 1., p< 0.000001). LOS was increased in the fibromyalgia group (8.44 days ± 8.12 days vs 2.65 days ± 3.01, p< 0.000001). 90 day post operative opioid use was higher in the fibromyalgia group 68. vs 59. (p< 0.000001). The odds for dislocation was increased in the fibromyalgia group aOR 1.67 ( CI 1.24 1.87, p< 0.02). Odds for emergency room visit was increased in the fibromyalgia group OR 1.46 ( CI 1.35 1.58, p< 0001.Conclusion: Fibromyalgia can complicate post operative care following THA with increased LOS, higher rates of opioid use and increased odds of dislocation and emergency room visits. As focus shifts to pre operative optimization and risk stratification, more attention should be placed on fibromyalgia prior to THA.NotesPaper #33Fibromyalgia Increases Post Operative Healthcare Utilization Following Total Hip Arthroplasty Ryland P. Kagan, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Spencer Smith, BS, Jung Yoo, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program56Introduction: Patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) have high mortality and complications after total hip arthroplasty (THA). Recent advances in HCV therapy have enabled clinicians to eradicate disease using antiretroviral therapy (ART) and direct acting antivirals (DAA), but these therapies are not commonly prescribed for patients prior to THA. The purpose of this study was to perform a cost effectiveness analysis comparing no therapy, ART and DAA prior to THA among HCV positive candidates.Methods: A Markov model was constructed with costs, probabilities and quality adjusted life year (QALY) values obtained from published literature. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) was compared to a willingness to pay threshold of $100,000/QALY to determine the cost effectiveness of ART and DAA compared to no therapy prior to THA. Costs were calculated in 2021 dollars, and they were discounted annually for inflation. Sensitivity analysis was performed to investigate the uncertainty associated with input variables.Results: Our Markov model indicates that both ART and DAA prior to THA are cost effective. HCV patients were modeled with increased rate of deep infection (9.) compared to healthy patients (1.). THA in the setting of no therapy, ART and DAA added 8.06, 11.62 and 14.39 QALYs at an average total cost of $28,800, $65,400 and $115,800. The ICER associated with ART and DAA in comparison to no therapy was $10,300/QALY and $13,800/QALY, both under the willingness to pay threshold of $100,000/QALY. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the ICER was influenced primarily by patient age, ART/DAA cost and effectiveness and HCV associated mortality. Conclusion: Total hip arthroplasty is exceptionally cost effective, and our results highlight that ART and DAA prior to THA are cost effective at current price points for HCV patients who have increased risk of poor outcomes. Our cost saving estimates remain conservative as they do not account for HCV associated medical complications. Strong consideration should be given to treating HCV prior to THA.NotesPaper #34Treating Hepatitis C Prior to Total Hip Arthroplasty is Cost Effective: A Markov Analysis Afshin A. Anoushiravani, MD, Gokul V. Kalyanasundaram, BS, James E. Feng, MD, MS, Frank Congiusta, MD, Richard Iorio, MD, Matthew Dicaprio, MD 57www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: The ideal timing for bilateral total hip arthroplasty (THA) to avoid an increased risk of adverse events remains controversial. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 90 day outcomes after simultaneous and staged bilateral THA.Methods: Laterality specific International Classification of Disease, 10th Revision codes were used to retrospectively identify 273,281 patients undergoing primary THA during 2015 2020. Of these, 39,905 (14.) were bilateral. Patients were divided into cohorts of unilateral THA, simultaneous bilateral THA and staged bilateral THA at 1 14 days, 15 42 days, 43 90 days and 91 365 days. Bilateral THA cohorts were matched one to one with unilateral THA patients based on age, gender, year, Elixhauser Comorbidity Index (ECI), and a preoperative diagnosis of obesity, tobacco use and diabetes. Univariate and multivariate analysis were used to compare 90 day outcomes between matched groups with a significance level of p< 0.05. Outcomes were collected beginning after the second THA in staged bilateral groups. Results: Simultaneous bilateral THA was associated with an increased risk of transfusion (odds ratio [OR] 4.43, confidence interval 2.31 2.63, p< 0.001), readmission (OR 2.60, 2.01 3.39, p< 0.001), and any complication (OR 1.86, 1.55 2.24, p< 0.001) compared to unilateral THA. Bilateral THA staged at 1 14 days increased the risk of readmission (OR 1.83, 1.49 2.24, p< 0.001) and any complication (OR 1.45, 1.26 1.66, p< 0.001) relative to unilateral THA. Bilateral THA staged at 15 42 days also increased the risk of adverse events, including periprosthetic joint infection (OR 3.15, 1.98 5.19, p< 0.001), transfusion (OR 2.90, 1.84 4.70, p< 0.001), readmission (OR 1.92, 1.55 2.39, p< 0.001) and any complication (OR 1.70, 1.46 1.97, p< 0.001). Bilateral THA staged at 43 90 days and 91 365 days resulted in similar or decreased rates of individual complications, reoperation, readmission and any complication relative to unilateral THA. Conclusion: Bilateral THA should be staged a minimum of 6 weeks apart in appropriately selected patients to avoid an increased risk of adverse events.NotesPaper #35Bilateral Total Hip Arthroplasty Staged within 6 Weeks Increases Risk of Adverse Events Joseph Serino, MD, E. Bailey Terhune, MD, Robert A. Burnett, MD, Jonathan A. Guntin, BA, Craig J. Della Valle, MD, Denis Nam, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program58Introduction: Robotic arm assisted total hip arthroplasty (RO THA) has been shown to improve the accuracy of component positioning compared with conventional total hip arthroplasty (CO THA), but it remains unknown how this translates to any differences in patient reported outcome measures (PROMS). This study reports the clinical outcomes of a previous trial that showed RO THA was associated with improved accuracy and reduced outliers in acetabular component positioning compared with CO THA. Methods: This prospective cohort study included 50 patients undergoing CO THA versus 50 patients receiving RO THA. Predefined outcomes including the Oxford hip score (OHS), Forgotten joint score (FJS), and University of California at Los Angeles hip (UCLA) score and any associated complications were recorded annually for three years. Patients in both treatment groups were comparable for age, gender, body mass index, laterality of surgery and ASA scores.Results: At three year follow up, there was no statistically significant difference in CO THA versus RO THA with respect to the OHS (41.7 ± 5.4 vs 42.3 ± 4.9, p=0.478), FJS (84.7 ± 9.1 vs 89.2 ± 7.8, p=0.063) and UCLA score (7.6 ± 1.4 vs 7.9 ± 1.9, p=0.243). None of the study patients had dislocations or underwent revision surgery. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient showed no statistical correlation between accuracy of achieving the planned cup inclination and version with the OHS, FJS or UCLA score. Conclusion: Improved accuracy of acetabular component positioning in RO THA in a high volume setting does not appear to significantly improve short term functional outcomes or complication risk compared to CO THA. Further studies are needed to assess the significance of these findings on longer term clinical outcomes and implant survivorship, and also explore the impact of the enhanced RO THA workflow and functional positioning for both acetabular and femoral component placement on these outcomes.NotesPaper #36Patient Reported Outcome Measures in Conventional Total Hip Arthroplasty Versus Robotic Arm Assisted Babar Kayani, MD, PhD, Andreas Fontalis, MD, MSc, Isabella C. Haddad, Christian Donovan, Jenni Tahmassebi, BS, Fares S. Haddad, MD, FRCS (ORTHO) www.AAHKS.org/Meeting59Introduction: Short to midterm follow up studies have not demonstrated a negative effect of using larger femoral heads at the cost of thinner highly crosslinked polyethylene (HXLPE) liners in modern total hip arthroplasty (THA). However, concern remains that these thinner liners may prematurely fail in the long term. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long term survival and revision rates of HXLPE in primary THA and the effect of liner thickness.Methods: We retrospectively identified all primary THA done in a single center using HXLPE from 2010 and earlier, including all head and liner sizes/thickness. We included 2565 THA with a mean follow up of 13.2 years (range 11.0 18.8). Mean age was 67.7 years, mean BMI was 29.0 and 47. were female. Patient characteristics, implant details, death and revisions were collected. Patients were grouped for analysis for each millimeter of PE thickness (e.g. 4.0 4.9mm, 5.0 5.9mm). Kaplan Meier survival was used to determine all cause and aseptic loosening revision rates. Results: Liner thickness varied from 4.9 to 12.7 mm, with one third < 6mm. Head sizes ranged from 28 to 40 mm, with 92. being 32 or 26mm and 98. of them being metallic heads. Liner related revision rates were 0., all cause revision rates were 4. and reoperation rates were 7.. Estimated survival rates were at 10 years and 94. at 20 years. When grouped by liner thickness, there were no significant differences in all cause revisions (p=0.112) or aseptic revisions (p=0.116).Conclusion: There were no significant differences in all cause or aseptic revisions between any of the liner thickness groups at long term follow up. Our results indicate that using thinner HXPE liners to maximize femoral head size in THA does not lead to increased revision or liner failures at long term follow up and is a safe practice when using HXLPE.NotesPaper #37HXLPE Liner Thickness in THA Does not Influence Survival in 2584 Hips with Mean 13.2 Years Follow up Bas L. Fransen, MD, PhD, Lisa C. Howard, MD, Tanya Mac Donell, MD, Francisco J. Bengoa, MD, Donald S. Garbuz, MD, Gerard A. Sheridan, MD, Michael E. Neufeld, MD, MSc, FRCSC 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program60Introduction: Traditionally, nondisplaced geriatric femoral neck fractures have undergone operative fixation while displaced geriatric femoral neck fractures have undergone hip arthroplasty (HA). The purpose of this study was to evaluate differences between outcomes in patients with nondisplaced (Garden 1/2) fractures and displaced (Garden 3/4) fractures that were treated with arthroplasty. Methods: This was a retrospective review of patients with a minimum of 1 year follow up from nine academic medical centers who underwent HA for femoral neck fractures between 2010 2020. Chi square, Fisher's Exact, and t tests were used to compare demographics and outcomes between patients who had a displaced fracture and those who had a nondisplaced fracture. Results: One thousand six hundred and twenty patients met inclusion criteria with 128 patients in the non displaced cohort and 1492 in the displaced cohort. The mean follow up in the study was 26.4 months. Both groups were similar in terms of demographic variables including age, sex, body mass index diabetes, tobacco use, injury mechanism and injury severity score (all p> 0.05). At 1 year follow up, there were no revisions (0/128) for nondisplaced femoral neck fractures that underwent HA and a 2. revision rate for displaced femoral neck fractures that underwent HA. Heterotopic ossification (HO) was significantly higher in displaced (23.) vs nondisplaced fractures (11.) (p=0.0021). Interestingly, operative times [120 vs 104 min (p=0.0002)] and blood loss [424 vs 332 ml (p=0.001)] were significantly higher in nondisplaced than displaced fractures that underwent HA. Conclusion: Hip arthroplasty is an excellent treatment option for nondisplaced and displaced geriatric femoral neck fractures, with no revisions at 1 year for nondisplaced fractures and a revision rate for displaced fractures. HO is higher in patients with displaced femoral neck fractures. HA is a reasonable treatment option for non displaced femoral neck fractures to potentially decrease revision surgeries in a frail patient population.NotesPaper #38Displaced vs Nondisplaced Femoral Neck Fractures: Is Arthroplasty the Answer for Both? Graham J. DeKeyser, MD, Jeffrey J. Frandsen, MD, Brenna E. Blackburn, PhD, Jeremy M. Gililland, MD 61www.AAHKS.org/MeetingAs the prevalence of obesity continues to rise, the proportion of patients undergoing total joint arthroplasty (TJA) has followed suit. Extensive literature has reported on obesity as an independent modifiable risk factor for increased complications, readmissions and reoperations. However, the influence of weight loss prior to TJA on adverse events remains elusive. Obesity is a very complex systemic and societal problem and the lack of successful weight loss strategies by arthroplasty patients have been reported in the literature. Strict BMI cutoffs may limit access to care not only for patients who could have safely undergone TJA, but also may disproportionately affect certain disadvantaged populations. Evidence based perioperative measures can mitigate risk in obese patients and enable safe TJA with low risk of complication. This symposium is aimed at interpreting the best available literature to help participants discern how best to safely care for the ever growing obese arthroplasty population. Learning Objectives:1.Recognize the risks associated with performing total joint arthroplasty on obese patients.2.Review the implications of BMI cutoffs on access to care.3.Review the implications of preoperative weight loss on outcomes.4.Discern the best way to optimize obese patients prior to total joint arthroplasty.5.Outline the optimal surgical techniques, perioperative protocols and care pathways for total joint arthroplasty for the obese patient.Outline:Introduction Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSCWhat Does the Data Say about the Perioperative Risks of Obesity and BMI? James A. Browne, MDIs there an Optimal BMI Cutoff? Or Do BMI Cutoffs Needlessly Reduce Access to Care? Employed Surgeons and Hospitals Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSC Weight Loss Before Surgery: Does it Reduce Risk? Kevin A. Sonn, MDHow to Safely Operate on the Obese Patient: Tips and Tricks for THA and TKA Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MScDiscussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VIGo Big or Go Home: Optimizing Outcomes in Obese Patients Moderator: Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSC Faculty: James A. Browne, MD, Kevin A. Sonn, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program62Introduction: Reimbursements for revision Total Hip Arthroplasty (revTHA) procedures have substantially declined; however, the population level effects of these trends on patient access are not well understood. The present study aimed to evaluate the trends in (1) the number of high volume primary and revision THA surgeons between 2013 to 2019 and (2) county level geographic access to these surgeons over the same period. Methods: The Medicare Fee for Service Provider Utilization and Payment Public Use Files (POSPUF) were used to extract data for primary and revision THA procedures using the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System codes (HCPCS) 27130 for primary and 27132, 27134, 27137, or 27138 for revision cases. Geospatial analyses were performed by aggregating surgeon practice locations at the level of individual counties, Hospital Service Areas (HSA) and Hospital Referral Regions (HRR). Results: The number of surgeons performing at least 10 primary THA within the Medicare population increased by 17. over the study period (from 3,838 in 2013 to 4,515 in 2019). Conversely, the number of surgeons submitting at least 10 revTHA Medicare claims decreased by approximately 36. over the same timeframe (from 178 in 2013 to 129 in 2019). The number of counties with at least one high volume primary THA surgeon increased by 6. from 2013 to 2019. Meanwhile, the number of counties with at least one high volume revTHA surgeon decreased by 30. over the study period. Conclusion: Declining geographic access to high volume revTHA surgeons may represent a consequence of shifting economic incentives and declining reimbursements for the care of complicated revTHA patients. Key stakeholders in the surgeon, hospital and payer community must consider the impact of future fee schedule changes on economic disincentives surrounding the care of challenging complications.NotesPaper #39Declining Geographic Access to High Volume Revision Hip Arthroplasty Surgeons (2013 2019) Tarun K. Jella, MPH, Thomas B. Cwalina, MBA, Alexander L. Roth, MD, Nathan W. Mesko, MD, Atul F. Kamath, MD 63www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Revision hip arthroplasty (RHA) is usually accompanied by metaphyseal bone loss and the need for a diaphyseal engaging tapered splined titanium stem (TSTS). The impact of an extended trochanteric osteotomy (ETO) on TSTS subsidence is unknown. Thus, we sought to investigate whether an ETO increased mean subsidence and the associated radiographic factors.Methods: This single center retrospective cohort study collected all TSTS implanted at time of femoral revision between 9/1/2016 and 11/23/2020. Patients with <3 months of follow up or incomplete radiographic follow up were excluded. All radiographic measurements were performed by a single observer. The stem contact length was measured above and below the transverse segment of the ETO. Intra class correlation coefficient was used to determine intra rater reliability. Mann Whitney U test was used to compare continuous variables and a Pearson's correlation was used to determine the association between contact length and subsidence.Results: Two hundred ninety eight (299 hips) patients were identified with a mean age of 67±11.8 years, mean BMI of 28±7.2 kg/m2, and mean follow up of 19.3±11.8 months. There were 66 ETOs (22.) performed. Intra rater reliability was 0.89 and 0.94 for subsidence and contact length respectively. Overall mean subsidence at latest follow up was 3.0±0.2 mm. The mean subsidence for Non ETO patients was 2.5±0.2mm versus 5.1±0.7mm with an ETO (p< 0.001). The mean contact length for Non ETO patients was 64±1.9mm versus 61±4.2mm in ETO patients (p=0.12). Specifically, the contact length above the ETO was 23±3.2mm versus 38±3.8mm below (intact diaphysis). We found a significant inverse relationship between TSTS contact length and subsidence in non ETO patients ( 0.33, p< 0.001). Contact length below the ETO was also an inversely related to subsidence ( 0.26, p=0.037). However, the overall contact length within the ETO did not correlate with stem subsidence ( 0.12, p=0.359). Conclusion: An ETO performed during RHA was associated with significantly higher subsidence. Contact length was inversely related (lower contact length/more stem subsidence) with stem subsidence below the ETO and in Non ETO patients. Surgeons should focus on contact length below ETO level when assessing contact length during revision THA.NotesPaper #40Does an Extended Trochanteric Osteotomy Increase the Risk of Tapered Splined Stem Subsidence? Samuel Rodriguez, MD, Leonardo Albertini Sanchez, BS, Travis R. Weiner, BS, Elizabeth B. Gausden, MD, MPH, Jason L. Blevins, MD, Jose A. Rodriguez, MD, Peter K. Sculco, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program64Introduction: Dual mobility (DM) articulations have been used in revision total hip arthroplasty (THA) with increased frequency in recent years to prevent postoperative hip instability. The purpose of this study is to report on outcomes of DM implants used in revision THA from the American Joint Replacement Registry (AJRR). Methods: Patients ≥65 years old who underwent a revision THA from 2012 2018 were screened for inclusions. Patients were divided into 3 groups: (1) DM articulation, (2) ≤32 mm solid bearing and (3) ≥36 mm solid bearing cohorts. The dataset was merged with Medicare claims data available through Jun 2020 to supplement outcome cases not captured in the AJRR. Patient and hospital characteristics were analyzed using multivariate statistical modeling to minimize potential confounding and identify independent associations with re revision. All cause re revision for any reason and re revision for instability were assessed using Cox proportional hazards regression analyses. Results: Overall, 20,728 revision THAs were identified, of which 3,043 (14.) received a DM articulation, 6,565 (31.) a ≤32 mm femoral head, and 11,120 (53.) a ≥36 mm femoral head. At eight year follow up, the cumulative all cause re revision rate for the ≤32 mm group (21., CI 20.2 23.) was significantly higher than the DM (16., CI 15.0 18.) and ≥36mm (15., CI 14.2 16.) groups (p< 0.0001). At eight years, the ≥36 mm group showed the lowest rate of re revision for instability (3., CI 2.9 3.) while the DM (5., CI 4.5 6.) and ≤32 mm groups (8., CI 7.7 9.) had higher rates (p< 0.0001). Conclusion: DM bearings are associated with lower rates of revision for instability compared to patients with ≤32 mm heads, but marginally higher rates of revision for patients with ≥36 mm heads. These results may be limited by unidentified confounding factors as patients at higher risk of dislocation may have preferentially received a DM articulation.NotesPaper #41Dual Mobility Articulation in Revision Total Hip Arthroplasty: An AJRR Analysis Jesse E. Otero, MD, PhD, Nathanael D. Heckmann, MD, Kyle Mullen, MPH, Jay R. Lieberman, MD, Bryan D. Springer, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting65Introduction: Dual mobility (DM) implants reduce the risk of dislocation in total hip arthroplasty (THA). Dislocated DM can present as a true dislocation of the entire modular head from the acetabulum, or as an intraprosthetic dislocation (IPD), where the inner head dissociates from the outer polyethylene bearing. This study reports the incidence of DM dislocations and IPD and evaluates the treatment and long term outcomes of dislocated DM THA. Methods: 695 primary and 758 revision DM THA were implanted at our institution from 2010 2021. 54 DM THA in 48 patients sustained at least one dislocation event. Mean time to dislocation was 41 weeks, mean age was 64 years, were female and mean follow up was 2.5 years. Patient outcomes were evaluated by retrospective chart review. Results: 44 hips presented with true dislocations ( incidence) and 10 presented with IPD (0. incidence). 9 of 10 IPD were missed at presentation and four additional iatrogenic IPD occurred during reduction attempts, increasing IPD incidence to . Reduction attempts in the emergency department failed in of DM, closed reduction attempts in the operating room failed in and second attempts at closed reduction failed in . Closed reduction was more successful under anesthesia with paralysis (p=0.03). Ultimately required open reduction or revision to treat the dislocation, re dislocated and five hips underwent subsequent revision at a mean 1.8 years after dislocation. Conclusion: The incidence of DM dislocation and IPD remains low; however, of IPD were missed, highlighting the importance of DM identification at presentation. Closed reductions were more successful with paralysis; however, the majority of dislocated DM required open management. Given the high conversion rate to open management and risk of iatrogenic IPD, we recommend attempting closed reduction in the operating room, where one may convert to open management as needed.NotesPaper #42Dislocated Dual Mobility THA: Most Need Open Reduction and Intraprosthetic Dissociation Often Missed Katherine E. Mallett, MD, Michael J. Taunton, MD, Matthew P. Abdel, MD, Rafael J. Sierra, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program66This symposium will provide the latest information on managing patients with failed THAs who require complex exposures, biologic fixation to manage bone loss and advanced techniques to treat and mitigate complications such as infection.Learning Objectives:1.Review how to safely expose complex revision THAs with a variety of surgical techniques based upon video demonstrations. 2.Identify the principles and surgical techniques behind utilizing modern implants (such as porous metals to address complex acetabular defects and modular fluted tapered stems to address the majority of femoral defects and periprosthetic femur fractures) most successfully in revision THA. 3.Review the best techniques when using antibiotic spacers for infection. Outline:Introduction Matthew P. Abdel, MDExtended Trochanteric Osteotomies and Component Removal: It’s An Art! Matthew P. Abdel, MD Hemispherical Cups, Augments, and Cages: How to Make Them All Work Scott M. Sporer, MD, MS Modular Fluted Tapered Stems: How I Use Them for Vancouver B2 and B3 Periprosthetic Fractures and Revisions Daniel J. Berry, MDArticulating & Non Articulating Spacers for PJI: What Are the Options in 2022? Elizabeth B. Gausden, MD Discussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VIISurgical Tips and Tricks to Save You During Revision THAs: Video Based Demonstrations Moderator: Matthew P. Abdel, MD Faculty: Scott M. Sporer, MD, MS, Daniel J. Berry, MD, Elizabeth B. Gausden, MD67www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Approximately of hip and knee surgeons will face malpractice litigation. Previous malpractice studies limit their review to primary total joint arthroplasties (TJAs), do not compare hip and knee surgery to other subspecialties and do not analyze contemporary litigation. This study aimed to determine 1) damages and negligence claimed; 2) proportion of different case outcomes; 3) factors associated with defense verdicts; and 4) differences in litigation patterns between orthopaedic subspecialties. Methods: VerdictSearch, a nationwide database, was queried for all orthopaedic medical malpractice claims from 2015 2020. Variables included: case outcome, indemnity payment, damages, negligence claimed, treatment, patient characteristics. A binary logistic regression determined if any collected variable increased the likelihood of defense verdict. Results: A total of 164 claims from 17 states were reviewed. Hip and knee surgery was the most frequent subspecialty (n=58, 38.; Knee: n=35, 21.; Hip: n=23, 14.). Other orthopaedic subspecialties represented were Spine (n=36; 22.), Trauma (n=28;17.), Hand & Wrist (n=16; 9.), Foot & Ankle (n=7; 4.), Sports (n=7; 4.), Pediatric (n=6; 3.), and Shoulder (n=6; 3.). Within hip and knee surgery, the most frequent treatments were primary TJAs (n=34; 56.8) and revision TJAs (n=7; 12.). Defense verdicts occurred in 44 cases (75.), while 12 (20.) resulted in plaintiff verdicts (Mean Award: $4,241,965) and 2 (3.) resulted in settlements (Mean Amount: $1,550,000). The most common damages were nerve injuries (n=13; 22.) and infections (n=9; 15.). The most common negligence were procedural errors (n=33; 56.) and diagnostic errors (n=21; 36.). The only variable independently associated with decreased likelihood of defense outcome was non reversible damages (e.g., paralysis, amputation, death; p< 0.001). Conclusion: Hip and knee surgery was the highest represented subspecialty in orthopaedic malpractice litigation. Surgeons are more frequently found negligent when non reversible damages occurred. Hip and knee surgeons should be cognizant of litigation patterns while ensuring patient centered high quality care.NotesPaper #43Hip & Knee Surgery Is the Most Litigated in Contemporary Orthopaedic Malpractice ClaimsNicholas Sauder, BS, Ahmed K. Emara, MD, Pedro J. Rullan, MD, Viktor E. Krebs, MD, Robert M. Molloy, MD, Nicolas S. Piuzzi, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program68Introduction: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a reliable and safe procedure that is associated with predictably good outcomes. As perioperative management of patients undergoing TKA has advanced, more medically frail patients have become candidates. One such cohort is patients requiring chronic anti coagulation (CA) for underlying medical comorbidities. We aimed to explore if these patients can expect similar complication rates following TKA as patients not requiring CA. Methods: This is a retrospective cohort study using The Truven Marketscan® databases. Patients undergoing primary TKA were identified and divided into cohorts based on preoperative medication status (i.e., having an anti coagulation prescription filled six prior to and six months following surgery). Patients undergoing revision surgery, those <18 years old, and those without 6 month preoperative and 2 year postoperative enrollment were excluded. Patient demographics and comorbidities were collected and controlled for in the analysis of 90 day and two year outcomes. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to compare outcomes between cohorts. Results: 53,168 patients were included with 12,367 on preoperative CA (18.). At 90 days, CA patients had increased odds of wound complications (OR 1.64, CI 1.42 1.91, p< 0.001), hematoma formation (OR 2.35, CI 1.82 3.04, p< 0.001), and revision surgery (OR 1.26, CI 1.06 1.50, p=0.01). At two years, CA patients had increased odds of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) (OR 1.63, CI 1.44 1.86, p< 0.001) as well as non infectious revision surgery (OR 2.03, CI 1.50 2.76, p< 0.001). Conclusion: Preoperative CA is associated with significantly higher odds of 90 day and 2 year complications after primary TKA. In particular, the increased odds of PJI and aseptic revision should be noted given their significant associated morbidity. Patients receiving CA should be counseled preoperatively regarding these risks.NotesPaper #44Chronic Anticoagulation: Increased Risk for Complication Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty Rahul K. Goel, MD, Jacob M. Wilson, MD, Philip O. Oladeji, MD, Alexander M. Dawes, BS, Keerat Singh, MD, George N. Guild, MD 69www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: The Oxford Knee Score (OKS) is a 12 item questionnaire used to track knee arthroplasty outcomes. Validation of such patient reported outcome measures is typically anchored to a single question based on patient ‘satisfaction’; however risk of subsequent revision surgery is also recognized as an important outcome measure. The OKS is a strong predictor of subsequent revision risk within two years; however, it is not known which item(s) are the strongest predictors. Our aim was therefore to identify which questions were most important in the prediction of subsequent knee arthroplasty revision risk. Methods: All primary TKAs (n=27,708) and UKAs (n=8,415) captured by the New Zealand Joint Registry between 1999 and 2019 with at least one OKS response at six months, five years and ten years post surgery were included. Logistic regression and receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves were used to assess prediction models at six months, five years, and ten years. Results: Q1 ‘overall pain’ was the strongest predictor of revision within two years (TKA: 6 months, odds ratio (OR) 0.70; 5 years, OR 0.56; 10 years, OR 0.70; UKA: 6 months, OR 0.76; 5 years, OR 0.35; 10 years, OR 0.54; all p< 0.05). A reduced model with just three questions (Q1, Q6 ‘limping when walking’,Q10 ’knee giving way’ showed comparable diagnostic ability with the full OKS (area under the curve (AUC): TKA: 6 months, 0.77 vs. 0.76; 5 years, 0.78 vs. 0.75; 10 years, 0.76 vs. 0.73; UKA: 6 months, 0.80 vs. 0.78; 5 years: 0.81 vs. 0.77; 10 years, 0.80 vs. 0.77; all NS). Conclusion: The three questions on overall knee pain, limping when walking and knee ‘giving way’ were the strongest predictors of subsequent revision within two years. Attention to the responses for these three key questions during follow up may allow for prompt identification of patients most at risk of revision.NotesPaper #45The Three Strongest Oxford Knee Score Questions that Predict Subsequent Knee Arthroplasty Revision Mei Lin Tay, MS, Andrew P. Monk, FRCS, Chris M.A. Frampton, PhD, Gary J. Hooper, MD, Simon W. Young, FRACS 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program70Introduction: Tibial tubercle osteotomy (TTO) allows good exposure and reduces the complications' risks on the extensor mechanism during Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty (RTKA). The purposes were: 1) to determine the rates of bone healing, complications and revisions secondary to TTO; 2) to assess the functional outcomes of RTKA with TTO; 3) to identify the risk factors of failure. Methods: Between 2010 to 2020, 810 RTKA were included in a prospective database. Inclusion criteria were RTKA with TTO, without extensor mechanism allograft, with at least two years of follow up. 135 RTKA were included, with a mean age of 65±9 years old, a mean BMI of 29.8kg/m²±5.7. Most frequent indications for revision were: infections, aseptic loosening, stiffness. Bone healing was confirmed on radiographs or CT scan. Complications and revisions were evaluated at the last follow up. Functional outcomes were assessed using the Knee Society Score (KSS) and range of motion. Results: The mean follow up was 51±26 months [24 121]. Bone healing was confirmed for of patients after a delay of 3.4±2.7months. Complication rate was (n=20): 9 tibial tubercle fracture (6.), 7 non union (), 2 delayed union, 1 tibial fracture, 1 wound dehiscence. Seven patients () required eight revision surgeries (): 3 bone grafts of TTO, 3 osteosyntheses, 1 extensor mechanism allograft, 1 wound revision. The functional scores and the knee flexion were significantly improved after surgery: KSS knee pre op 48.8±17 versus post op 79.6±20 (p< 0.001); KSS function pre op 37.6±21 versus post op 70.2±30 (p< 0.001); flexion pre op 81.5°±33 versus post op 93°±29 (p=0.004). (n=132) of patients had no extension deficit. No risk factor of failure of the procedure was highlighted. Conclusion: TTO during RTKA is an efficient procedure to improve knee exposure, with a high bone healing rate, despite significant specific complications. Functional outcomes are improved at mid term.NotesPaper #46Tibial Tubercule Osteotomy in Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty: Contemporary Outcomes in 135 Knees Cecile Batailler, MD, PhD, Nicolas Cance, MD, Robin Canetti, MD, Arman Vahabi, MD, Elvire Servien, MD, PhD, Sebastien Lustig, MD, PhD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting71Introduction: Perceived surgeon workload of performing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is poorly understood and variable in nature. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration Task Load Index (NASA TLX) survey was developed to quantify subjective experience following aviation and has been applied to healthcare fields. NASA TLX measures workload across 6 domains (mental, physical, temporal, performance, effort, and frustration). Our purpose is to: 1) quantify the workload endured by surgeons who are performing primary and revision TKA and 2) compare these values in relationship to their Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) compensation.Methods: A prospective observational cohort of 5 fellowship trained adult reconstruction surgeons completed NASA TLX surveys following conclusion of primary TKA (CPT 27447) and revision TKA (CPT 27486 and 27487). We excluded from analysis any cases with intraoperative complication. Operative time, surgical indication, patient age, sex, body mass index and American Society of Anesthesiologist category were recorded. Final NASA TLX workloads were compared to 2021 CMS data for work relative value units. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS.Results: 70 surveys (48 primaries and 22 revisions) were completed averaging 9.6 primaries and 4.4 revisions per surgeon. All 6 NASA TLX domains were significantly higher in revision than primary TKA (p< 0.008). Revision TKA represented a increased workload compared to primary TKA (p< 0.001), primary 3.13 (IQR 2.10 5.30) vs. revision 8.67 (IQR 7.53 9.80). Subgroup analysis revealed increased workload in primary TKA for post traumatic arthritis versus primary osteoarthritis (p=0.005), 8.43 (IQR 6.75 9.18) versus 2.80 (IQR 2.00 4.27), respectively. Operative time was higher in revision versus primary TKA 118 vs 84.5 minutes (p=0.05). Post hoc power analysis demonstrated likelihood of β error <0.001. Based upon 2021 CMS data, revision TKA is compensated at 50. of the actual workload.Conclusion: Revision TKA places a significant workload upon surgeons and is disproportionately compensated by CMS.NotesPaper #47A Comparison of NASA Task Load Index in Primary and Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty Kunal S. Panwar, DO, Eric Huish, DO, Jesua Law, DO, Justin T. Deans, DO, Jonathon R. Staples, MD, Eric O. Eisemon, MD, Zachary C. Lum, DO 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program72Introduction: While the burden of revision total joint arthroplasty (TJA) procedures increases within the United States, it is unclear whether healthcare resource allocation for these complex cases has kept pace. This study examined trends in hospital level reimbursements for revision TJA hospitalizations. Methods: The CMS Inpatient Utilization and Payment Public Use Files from 2014 to 2019 were queried for diagnostic related groups (DRGs) for revision TJA; DRG 467 (revision of hip or knee replacement with complication or comorbidity [CC]) and DRG 468 (revision of hip or knee replacement without CC or major CC). After adjusting to 2019 US dollars with the Consumer Price Index, a multiple linear mixed model regression analysis was performed. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) compared regressions from 2014 to 2019 for mean adjusted Medicare payment and mean adjusted charge submitted for these DRGs. Results: From 2014 to 2019, a total of 170,808 revision total knee and hip arthroplasty hospitalizations were billed to Medicare. The annual number of revision total knee and hip arthroplasty procedures increased by 3,121 (10.) from 29,058 in 2014 to 32,179 in 2019. After adjusting to 2019 dollars, the average Medicare payment for DRG 467 decreased by $804.37 ( 3.) from $22,821.56 in 2014 to $22,017.19 in 2019. The average Medicare payment for DRG 468 decreased by $647.33 ( 3.) from $17,951.97 in 2014 to $17,304.65 in 2019. ANCOVA showed that the average inflation adjusted Medicare payment for DRG 467 decreased at a greater rate during the study period, compared to that for DRG 468 (p=0.02). Conclusion: The decline in reimbursement for DRGs 467 and 468 from 2014 to 2019 reveals decreasing incentives for revision TJA hospitalizations. Further research should assess the efficacy of current Medicare payment algorithms and identify modifications which may provide for fair hospital level reimbursements.NotesPaper #48Declining Inflation Adjusted Medicare Hospital Reimbursement for Revision Total Joint Arthroplasty Adam A. Rizk, BA, Tarun K. Jella, MPH, Thomas B. Cwalina, MBA, Thomas J. Pumo, MD, Michael P. Erossy, MD, Atul F. Kamath, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting73Introduction: Over the past ten years, reimbursement models and target payments have been modified in an effort to decrease costs of revision total knee arthroplasty (rTKA) while maintaining a high quality of care. The goal of this study was to investigate trends in revenue and costs associated with rTKA.Methods: A retrospective review was conducted investigating all patients who underwent rTKA at our large urban institution from June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2021. Demographic data as well as revenue, direct and total cost associated with each patient's hospital stay were collected. Contribution margin, a financial variable used to estimate the amount of revenue left to cover fixed costs, was calculated by subtracting direct cost from revenue. Revenue, cost and contribution margin values were recorded as percentages of 2011 values. Linear regression analysis was used to determine significance of trends and establish confidence intervals. Results: In the ten year period studied, 1601 patients were identified with complete revenue and cost data. Over the time period studied, there was no significant linear trend in revenue (p=0.177), contribution margin (p=0.423), or total cost (p=0.562). There was a significant upward trend in direct cost from 2011 to 2021 (Slope [ CI]: 3.49 [1.26, 4.51], p=0.003). Since 2018, total cost increased by 0. and direct cost by 9. relative to 2011 values. In the same time period, revenue decreased by 10. leading to a reduction in contribution margin of 32.. Conclusion: Since 2018 while direct and indirect costs associated with rTKA have been consistently high, revenue has steadily decreased, leading to the lowest contribution margin in over a decade. This trend is concerning and may potentially lead to decreased access to care. Reevaluation of reimbursement models for rTKA may be necessary to ensure the continued financial viability of this procedure.NotesPaper #49Trends in Revenue and Cost for Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty Thomas H. Christensen, BS, Christian T. Oakley, BS, Joseph A. Bosco, MD, Claudette M. Lajam, MD, James D. Slover, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program74Periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is one of the most dreaded complications of joint arthroplasty. PJI has moved to be the main cause of failure of TKA and THA based on AJRR and numerous other joint registries. There are numerous issues with prevention, diagnosis and treatment of PJI. The symposium has assembled recognized experts in the field of orthopedic infections to discuss the current issues related to PJI. The speakers will cover clinically pertinent topics related to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of PJI. The format of presentation will be based on FAQ. Clinically relevant questions that we all face in our practice on a daily basis will be presented, responses (based on evidence as much as possible) and supportive citations will be provided. Questions like should I screen patients for MRSA, should joint replacement be performed in a laminar air flow operating room, what tests do I need to perform on the synovial aspirate, what antibiotics and how much do I add to cement spacer, and so on will be discussed.Learning Objectives:1.Discuss current issues related to PJI.2.Review prevention, diagnosis and treatment options.3.Identify practical, evidence based approaches to addressing PJI.Outline:Introduction Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCSPrevention of PJI: Answering All the FAQ Related to Prevention from Nasal Decolonization to Laminar Flow Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MSc Diagnosis of PJI: What Test, When, How and all FAQs Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCSTreatment of PJI: DAIR to Amputation and Antimicrobials Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA What is on the Horizon: Novel Surfaces, Anti Biofilm, Antimicrobial Peptides and Many More Carlos A. Higuera, MDDiscussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VIIIPeriprosthetic Joint Infection: Practical Guide to Address FAQs Moderator: Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS Faculty: Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA, Carlos A. Higuera, MD, Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MSc www.AAHKS.org/Meeting75Introduction: The safety of postoperative colonoscopy and endoscopy following total joint arthroplasty (TJA) remains largely unknown. The objective of this study was to characterize the risk of developing a postoperative periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) after TJA when an endoscopic procedure is done within 12 months of the index surgery. Methods: Using the PearlDiver database, patients who underwent an endoscopic procedure (colonoscopy or EGD) within 12 months after primary TJA were identified and matched in a 1:1 fashion based on procedure (primary TKA vs. THA), age, gender, Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) and smoking status with patients who did not undergo endoscopy. The impact of timing of endoscopy relative to TJA on postoperative outcomes was assessed. Pre operative comorbidity profiles and 1 year complications were compared. Statistical analysis included chi squared tests and multivariate logistic regression with outcomes considered significant at p< 0.05. Results: A total of 142,055 patients who underwent endoscopy within 12 months following TJA (96,804 TKA and 45,251 THA) were identified and matched. Univariate testing revealed that for patients undergoing primary TJA, endoscopy within 12 months resulted in increased rates of PJI (TKA: 2. vs. 2., p< .001; THA: 2. vs. 2., p=0.494). Multivariate analysis revealed that endoscopy within 2 months following TKA and 1 month of THA was associated with a significantly increased odds of periprosthetic joint infection (OR: 1.29 [1.08 1.53]; p=.004; OR: 1.41 [1.01 1.90]; p=0.033, respectively). Patients who underwent endoscopy at later time points were not at significantly greater risk of developing these complications.Conclusion: Postoperative endoscopy (colonoscopy and EGD) within 12 months of TJA increases the odds of PJI; however if done within 2 months of TKA and 1 month of THA it significantly increases the odds of developing a PJI. This data suggests that invasive endoscopic procedures should be delayed as above.NotesPaper #50Invasive GI Endoscopy Within 2 Months of TJA Increases the Risk for Periprosthetic Joint Infection Enrico M. Forlenza, MD, E. Bailey Terhune, MD, Jeffrey A. Geller, MD, Craig J. Della Valle, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program76Introduction: Fungal prosthetic joint infections (PJIs) are thought to affect of all total knee (TKA) and total hip (THA) PJIs. Recommendations against obtaining routine fungal cultures in the setting of PJI has been recently proposed. However, the goal of this study is to demonstrate the possibility that fungal PJIs may have been previously underreported. Methods: This is a retrospective case control study of all PJIs, defined by the Musculoskeletal Infection Society, treated at a single institution between January 1, 2017, until June 20, 2021. A fungal PJI had isolated a fungal pathogen from synovial fluid or tissue culture during treatment, and the remaining PJIs were placed in a control group for comparison. Patient demographics, laboratory results and outcomes were analyzed. Categorical variables were analyzed using chi squared or Fisher's exact tests and continuous variables with student's t tests or Mann Whitney U tests where appropriate. Results: A total of 296 PJIs were identified with 47 of them defined as fungal PJIs (15.). Patient demographics did not differ between the two groups (p> 0.05). The number of TKA and THA PJIs between the two groups were similar (p>0.05). Candida sp was the most common fungal species isolated (n=40, 85.). Most (80.) fungal PJIs also isolated a bacterial pathogen in synovial or tissue cultures during their treatment. Compared with controls, there was a significant difference in the presence of corynebacterium striatum (p=0.003), vancomycin resistant enterococcus sp (p=0.007), and enterobacter sp. (p=0.005) in fungal PJIs. PJI treatment success was significantly different between the cases and controls (19.1 vs 61., p< 0.001). Case fatality rate was higher amongst fungal PJIs (25.5 vs 14.) but this difference was not significant (p=0.069). Conclusion: Fungal PJIs may have been previously underreported in the literature, which would challenge recent recommendations to discontinue routine fungal cultures during PJI treatment.NotesPaper #51Fungal Prosthetic Joint Infections: An Emerging Pathogen? Kathryn L. Fideler, MD, MPH, Eric M. Kiskaddon, MD, Matthew T. Pigott, MD, Kenan Alzouhayli, BA, Andrew Phillips, BA, Douglas Chonko, DO www.AAHKS.org/Meeting77Introduction: The optimum indications for performing debridement, antibiotics and implant retention (DAIR) for prosthetic joint infection (PJI) following total knee arthroplasty (TKA) are unclear. This study aimed to identify the success rate of DAIR in a large multicenter cohort and compare the success rates of DAIR between different PJI classification systems. Methods: Prospective data from the Prosthetic joint Infection in Australia and New Zealand Observational (PIANO) study was analyzed. This study included first time PJIs occurring after primary TKA that were managed with DAIR between July 2014 and December 2017. Treatment success was defined as the patient being alive with absence of clinical or microbiological reinfection and no ongoing use of antibiotics at 2 year follow up. The rate of DAIR success was compared against the Coventry (early PJI = ≤1 month), International Consensus Meeting (ICM, early PJI = ≤90 days), Auckland (early PJI = <1 year) and Tsukayama PJI classification systems. Multivariate binary logistic regression models were produced for each classification system with adjustment for patient and microbiological factors. Results: 189 PJI cases were managed with DAIR with an overall success rate of (85/189). DAIR success was highest in early PJIs defined according to the Coventry system (adjusted OR=3.85, p=0.008), the ICM system (adjusted OR=3.08, p=0.005) and the Auckland system (adjusted OR=2.60, p=0.01). DAIR success was lower in both hematogenous (adjusted OR=0.36, p=0.034) and chronic infections (adjusted OR=0.14, p=0.003) when defined according to the Tsukayama system. Conclusion: DAIR success is highest in infections occurring within one year of the primary TKA. Late infections had a high failure rate of DAIR irrespective of their classification as hematogenous or chronic. Time since primary can predict DAIR success.NotesPaper #52Success of Debridement, Antibiotics and Implant Retention in Prosthetic Joint Infection Richard Rahardja, MD, Mark Zhu, MD, Joshua Davis, MD, PhD, Laurens Manning, MD, PhD, Sarah Metcalf, MD, Simon W. Young, FRACS 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program78Introduction: Management of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) often requires multiple surgeries with prolonged antibiotic courses resulting in decreased quality of life and increased postoperative morbidity and mortality. Such stressors adversely affect mental health and are overlooked in PJI treatment. Despite the known effects of mental health on outcomes, the role PJI treatment plays in the development and relapse of mood disorders remains largely unreported. This study reports on the incidence of depression and anxiety following antibiotic spacer placement for PJI.Methods: Patients who underwent antibiotic spacer for PJI following total hip arthroplasty (THA) or total knee arthroplasty (TKA) were identified through national insurance databases (PearlDiver) using Current Process Terminology (CPT) codes for antibiotic hip and knee spacer and International Classification of Diseases codes specific for PJI. Patients with aseptic revision THA and TKA were similarly identified. Incidence of initial and recurrent depression and anxiety were identified within 1 year following antibiotic spacer among PJI and aseptic revision THA and TKA cohorts, respectively. Descriptive and univariate analysis were subsequently conducted. Results: 108,858 patients were included; 58,899 revision TKA (rTKA), 11,167 rTKA secondary to PJI, 34,884 revision THA (rTHA), 3,908 rTHA secondary to PJI. Relative to aseptic rTKA, patients receiving antibiotic spacer placement for treatment of PJI have higher incidence of new depression (OR 3.67; p< 0.01), anxiety (OR 5.12; p< 0.01), and anxiety and depression combined (OR 3.60; p< 0.01). Relative to aseptic rTHA, Patients receiving antibiotic spacer placement for treatment of PJI have higher incidence of new depression (OR 4.54; p< 0.01), anxiety (OR 6.00; p< 0.01), and anxiety and depression combined (OR 4.85; p< 0.01). Conclusion: There is high incidence of depression and anxiety among patients following the first stage of a two stage revision THA or TKA for PJI and collaborative care with mental health professionals should be considered.NotesPaper #53High Incidence of Mood Disorders After Antibiotic Spacer Placement for PJI Following THA and TKAAvilash Das, MD, Alex Gu, MD, Amil R. Agarwal, BA, Simone A. Bernstein, BS, Brock Knapp, MD, Seth N. Stake, MD, Joshua C. Campbell, MD, Savyasachi C. Thakkar, MD, Gregory J. Golladay, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting79Introduction: The most common organisms causing surgical site infection (SSI) arise from skin and mucosal surfaces. Decolonization of the skin prior to a surgical procedure has been shown to be effective in reduction of SSI. The aim of this prospective study was to determine the organism profile of the skin and evaluate the effect of application of a unique antiseptic solution on the skin microbiome.Methods: A total of 50 volunteers were recruited into this study. After randomization one arm of these individuals was cleaned with a wipe that had benzalkonium (BZK) antiseptic solution and the contralateral arm was wiped with PBS. Swab samples of each arm were taken at baseline (prior to application of the agents) and at 3 different timepoints after application (5 min, 2h, and 24h). Skin was protected between 5 min and 2h after application with a sterile wrap. Skin swabs were analyzed for NGS sequencing and culture.Results: The baseline skin bioburden varied greatly among individuals (24 to 32,832 CFU/ml); however, baseline bioburden did not differ between arms (p=0.61). A higher effect of bioburden reduction was observed at 5 min after application of BZK, compared to PBS (median 95. vs. 36., p< 0.01). At the 2h after application of BZK, there was still a bacterial reduction of 96. (IQR 88. 98.) and the PBS arm showed a lower reduction (median 31. [IQR 56.], p< 0.01). By 24h, the reduction in bacterial load was also higher in the BZK arm (median 53. vs. , p< 0.01).Conclusion: There is a wide difference in the skin microbiome of individuals. Application of BZK based antiseptic solution led to elimination of the skin flora for up to 2h after application. The novel antiseptic solution tested during this study has a broad activity against all organisms including fungi and spores.NotesPaper #54Skin Microbiome and Effect of Decolonization Diana Fernandez Rodriguez, MD, JeongEun Cho, BA, Emanuele Chisari, MD, Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program80Introduction: Biofilm formation is a major clinical challenge contributing to treatment failure of Periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). Lytic bacteriophages (phages) can target biofilm associated bacteria at localized sites of infection. The aim of this study is to test if phage has a better antimicrobial effect than vancomycin against Staphylococcus aureus biofilm aggregates formed in synovial fluid. Methods: S .aureus BP043, a PJI clinical isolate, methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and biofilm former was utilized in this study. Phage Remus, known to infect S. aureus, was used. BP043 was grown in human synovial fluid in 96 well for 24hrs as aggregates. Then, these S. aureus biofilm aggregates were treated with: A) phage Remus at ~109 PFU/mL, B) vancomycin, 500 ug/mL, or C) phage Remus, followed by vancomycin. Then, the bacterial aggregates were vortexed vigorously and bacterial survival was assessed by plating on tryptic soy agar plates. Aggregates formation in synovial fluid was assessed using flow cytometer by measuring their size and comparing it to S. aureus clumping in Tryptic Soy broth (TSB). The aggregates were also examined by scan electron microscopy (SEM). Each experiment had two technical repetitions and at least two different human synovial fluids were used. Results: SEM images and flow cytometer data demonstrated the ability of human synovial fluid to promote S. aureus aggregates formation. Phage Remus resulted in more than reduction in viable S. aureus residing in the synovial fluid aggregates, compared to the aggregates with no treatment (p=0.015). Remus is more powerful in breaking down BP043 aggregates and eliminating viable bacteria compared to vancomycin (p=0.02). Moreover, combining phage Remus followed by vancomycin is more efficacious in reducing bacterial load than using Remus or vancomycin alone (p=0.023, p< 0.001, respectively). Conclusion: We demonstrated synergistic interaction between phage Remus and vancomycin, leading to better clearance of MRSA synovial fluid aggregates.NotesPaper #55Combining Bacteriophage and Vancomycin is Efficacious Against MRSA Biofilm Formed in Synovial Fluid Mariam Taha, PhD, Hesham Abdelbary, MD, FRCSCwww.AAHKS.org/Meeting81Introduction: Bacterial surgical site infections are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality globally, and lead to additional medical and surgical treatments, increased costs, and worse outcomes for orthopaedic patients. Bacteria forming extracellular biofilms are particularly resistant to antibiotic and surgical treatments when surgical implants are present. We compared the ability of staphylococcus aureus to form biofilms on common surgical implant materials. Methods: Test coupons composed of hand polished stainless steel (HPSS), titanium (Ti), titanium alloy Ti6Al4V (TiAlV), cobalt chrome alloy Co28Cr6Mo F1537 (CoCr), hydroxyapatite (HA), ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE), polyether ether ketone (PEEK), and poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) bone were coated with biofilms and quantified by CFU count, confocal microscopy and electron microscopy. Surface roughness and water contact angles were assessed with optical profilometer and optical zoom imaging. Results: After 72 hours, biofilms grew more readily on non polished 3D printed metals and plastics, such as TiAlV (4.77e7 CFU) and UHMWPE (5.12e7 CFU) compared to polished and machined metals such as HPSS (1.06e7 CFU), Ti (1.25e7 CFU), and CoCr (2.16e7 CFU), ANOVA p< 0.0001. The materials with greater roughness and hydrophobicity developed more biofilm than smoother, hydrophilic materials.Conclusion: Implant materials and characteristics have a strong correlation with biofilm formation, with hand polishing of metals predicting resistance to biofilm formation. In addition to being mechanically weak and a poor antibiotic release profile, PMMA is also rougher and more hydrophobic than the metal implants, and thus provides an additional surface for bacteria to readily form biofilm. These results may inform implant designs and surgeons may choose materials with reduced biofilm affinity in both septic and aseptic procedures.NotesPaper #56Implant Materials Affect Biofilm FormationDavid Kerr, MD, Megan Zheng, BS, Isabel P. Prado, MS, Christine J. Wu, MD, Jeffrey O'Donnell, MD, Mark Wu, MD, Niall H. Cochrane, MD, Thorsten M. Seyler, MD, PhD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program82DisclosuresMatthew P. Abdel, MD Hip Society: Board or committee member ICJR: Board or committee member Mid America Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Stryker: IP royaltiesAyesha Abdeen, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberHesham Abdelbary, MD, FRCSC This individual reported nothing to discloseJeffrey A. Ackerman, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMuyibat A. Adelani, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid presenter or speaker Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardAmil R. Agarwal, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseVinay K. Aggarwal, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseOluwaseun Akinbo, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberLeonardo Albertini Sanchez, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseBryce C. Allen, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Anika Orthopedics: Research supportKyle G. Alpaugh, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKenan Alzouhayli, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseDerek F. Amanatullah, MD, PhD Exactech, Inc: IP royalties; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedic Research: Editorial or governing board Knimble Designs: Stock or stock Options Medacta: Paid consultant NIH NCATS KL2: Research support nSight Surgical: Stock or stock Options Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation: Research support Osteosynthesis and Trauma Care Foundation: Research support QT Ultrasound: Stock or stock Options Radial Medical: Stock or stock Options Recoup Fitness: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Paid consultant United Orthopedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant WebMD: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportLucas A. Anderson, MD Medacta: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker OrthoGrid: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Research support Zimmer: Research supportJohn P. Andrawis, MD, MBA This individual reported nothing to discloseUtkarsh Anil, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAfshin A. Anoushiravani, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAndrew E. Apple, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael J. Archibeck, MD Hip Society: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Zimmer: Paid consultant; Research supportJerrt Arraut, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael P. Ast, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member BD: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Bioventus: Paid consultant Conformis: Paid consultant Convatec: Paid presenter or speaker ConveyMED: Stock or stock Options Eastern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Foundation for Physician Advancement: Board or committee member HS2: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedic Innovation and Experience: Editorial or governing board OrthAlign: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options OrthAlign Inc: Paid presenter or speaker OrthAlign, Inc: IP royalties Ospitek: Stock or stock Options Osso VR: Stock or stock Options Parvizi Surgical Innovations: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Surgical Care Affiliates: Paid consultant Philip H. Aurigemma, MD American Society of Echocardiography: Board or committee member UptoDate: Publishing royalties, financial or material support83www.AAHKS.org/MeetingMatthew S. Austin, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Corin U.S.A.: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker JayPee: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Link Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant Zimmer: IP royalties; Research supportDavid C. Ayers, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board MuVr: Other financial or material support Scientific advisory board: Other financial or material supportColin M. Baker, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseTrevor R. Banka, MD Zimmer: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerMichael D. Baratz, MD Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Paid consultantC. Lowry Barnes, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Avant garde Health: Stock or stock Options BEKHealth: Stock or stock Options Clozex Medical: Stock or stock Options DJO: IP royalties Excelerate Health Ventures: Stock or stock Options Green OR: Stock or stock Options Hayle Surgical: Stock or stock Options HipKnee Arkansas Foundation: Board or committee member In2Bones SAS: Stock or stock Options Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Journal of Surgical Orthopaedic Advances: Editorial or governing board MiCare Path: Stock or stock Options MicroPort Orthopaedics: Paid consultant Plakous: Stock or stock Options Ride Health: Stock or stock Options ROM3 Rehab, LLC: Stock or stock Options Sleep Partners, LLC: Stock or stock Options Sniffle: Stock or stock Options Southern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Zimmer: IP royaltiesOmid S. Barzideh, MD Constance.health: Stock or stock OptionsCecile Batailler, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseDexter K. Bateman, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseOmar A. Behery, MD, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseCourtney D. Bell, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantJaime L. Bellamy, DO AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardIlya Bendich, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Stryker: Research supportFrancisco J. Bengoa, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKeith R. Berend, MD Elute, Inc.: Stock or stock Options Firstkind: Research support Joint Development Corporation: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Medacta USA: Paid presenter or speaker Parvizi Surgical Innovation: Stock or stock Options Parvizi Surgical Innovation Research Institute: Research support Prescribe Fit: Stock or stock Options Reconstructive Review: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Paid presenter or speaker SPR Therapeutics, LLC: Stock or stock Options Total Joint Orthopedics: Research support VuMedi: Stock or stock Options Zimmer Biomet: Research supportTucker Berk, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseJenna A. Bernstein, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Stryker: Research supportSimone A. Bernstein, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDaniel J. Berry, MD Bodycad: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Current Concepts in Joint Replacement (Hip Society and Knee Society): Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support International Hip Society: Board or committee member Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation: Board or committee member Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportAlex Betech, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJennifer Bido, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJoshua S. Bingham, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBrenna E. Blackburn, PhD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberMichael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSC 7D Surgical: Stock or stock Options2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program84DisclosuresJason L. Blevins, MD Globus Medical: Paid consultant KCI: Paid consultant LimaCorporate: Paid consultantMichael P. Bolognesi, MD Acelity: Other financial or material support Amedica: Stock or stock Options; Unpaid consultant American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member AOA Omega: Other financial or material support Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Biomet: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Eastern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Exactech, Inc: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board KCI: Research support Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Other financial or material support TJO: IP royalties; Paid presenter or speaker; Stock or stock Options Zimmer: IP royalties; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportJoseph A. Bosco III, MD Genovel: Stock or stock Options MyarthritisRX: Stock or stock Options Proventus Health: Stock or stock OptionsHayden N. Box, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKaren K. Briggs, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseJoseph C. Brinkman, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMatthew L. Brown, MD Zimmer: Stock or stock OptionsNicholas M. Brown, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Corin U.S.A.: Paid consultant DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantTimothy S. Brown, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Mid America Orthopedic Association (MAOA): Board or committee member Musculoskeletal Infection Society (MSIS): Board or committee member Stryker: Paid consultantJames A. Browne, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Joint Replacement Registry (AAOS): Board or committee member DJO Surgical: IP royalties; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board; Publishing royalties, financial or material support Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Kinamed: Paid consultant OsteoRemedies: Paid consultant Radlink: Stock or stock Options Saunders/Mosby Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Southern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee memberLeonard T. Buller, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberRobert A. Burnett, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseFrank A. Buttacavoli, MD KCI: Paid consultant Medtronic: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantCory L. Calendine, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedic Experience and Innovation: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Paid consultant Tennessee Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee memberJoshua C. Campbell, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNicolas Cance, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRobin Canetti, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAlberto V. Carli, MD, FRCSC Heraeus Medical: Paid consultantTiffany N. Castillo, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBrian P. Chalmers, MD HSS Journal: Editorial or governing boardMichael A. Charters, MD Zimmer: Paid consultant; Research supportAntonia F. Chen, MD, MBA 3M: Paid consultant AAOS: Board or committee member Adaptive Phage Therapeutics: Paid consultant; Research support AJRR: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Avanos: Paid consultant BICMD: Paid consultant Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Convatec: Paid consultant Elute: Research support Ethicon: Paid consultant European Knee Association: Board or committee member GLG: Paid consultant Guidepoint: Paid consultant Heraeus: Paid consultant Hyalex: Stock or stock Options Irrimax: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Joint Purification Systems: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone & Joint Infection: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedic Research: Editorial or governing board Knee Surgery, Sports Traumatology, Arthroscopy: Editorial or governing board Pfizer: Paid consultant SLACK Incorporated: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Sonoran: Stock or stock Options Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant UpToDate: Publishing royalties, financial or material support85www.AAHKS.org/MeetingDarwin D. Chen, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Monogram Orthopedics: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Stryker: Paid consultantDennis Chen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseXiao T. Chen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseZhongming Chen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseGeorge F. Chimento, MD, FACS AAOS: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Sight Medical: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Paid consultant Vizient: Unpaid consultantEmanuele Chisari, MD Annals of Medicine: Editorial or governing board CIRO: Stock or stock Options Povinez: Stock or stock Options Surgiwipe: Stock or stock OptionsJeongEun Cho, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseAlexander B. Christ, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Intellijoint Surgical: Paid consultant Musculoskeletal Tumor Society: Board or committee member Orthopaedic Research Society: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantThomas H. Christensen, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseBrian C.H. Chung, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDane J. Church, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseCharles E. Claps, DO This individual reported nothing to discloseGavin W. Clark, FRACS Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportNick D. Clement, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseNiall H. Cochrane, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJordan S. Cohen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAnna R. Cohen Rosenblum, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Ruth Jackson Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee memberDermot Collopy, MD AO Recon: Paid presenter or speaker AOA: Board or committee member Corin: Paid consultant Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Zimmer: Paid presenter or speakerBrendan J. Comer, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSarah Commaroto This individual reported nothing to discloseFrank Congiusta, MD Convatec: Paid presenter or speaker DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Lima: Paid consultant New England Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee member Stryker: Research supportHerbert J. Cooper, MD AAOS: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board KCI: Paid presenter or speaker; Research support KCI Medical Canada, Inc: Paid consultant KCI USA, Inc: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Research support Zimmer Biomet: Paid consultantP. Maxwell Courtney, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Hip Innovation Technology: Paid consultant Parvizi Surgical Innovation: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid presenter or speaker Stryker: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantSteven J. Cowart, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid A. Crawford, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Firstkind: Research support Journal of Orthopaedic Experience and Innovation: Editorial or governing board Medacta: Paid consultant Medacta, USA: Paid presenter or speaker Parvizi Surgical Innovation Research Institute: Research support Total Joint Orthopedics: Research support Zimmer: Research supportBrian M. Curtin, MD, MS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Joint Replacement Registry Review Commission: Board or committee member Biomet: Paid consultant Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid presenter or speaker European Journal of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology: Editorial or governing board International Congress for Joint Reconstruction: Board or committee member Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Orthopedics: Editorial or governing board Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportThomas B. Cwalina, MBA This individual reported nothing to discloseTaylor D'Amore, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseChris J. Dangles, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program86DisclosuresJonathan R. Danoff, MD Acelrx: Paid consultant American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Flexion Therapeutics: Paid presenter or speaker Surgical Specialties Corp: Paid consultantMichele R. D'Apuzzo, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Florida Orthopedic Society: Board or committee member Miami Orthopedic Society: Board or committee member OMEGA: Other financial or material support OREF: Research support Zimmer: Paid consultantAvilash Das, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJason J. Davis, MD Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Journal of Arthroplasty Pfizer: Paid consultantJoshua Davis, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseAlexander M. Dawes, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseAyushmita De, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseJustin T. Deans, DO This individual reported nothing to discloseEytan M. Debbi, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid G. Deckey, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardJustin T. Deen, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support OrthoDevelopment: Paid consultantAlexander M. DeHaan, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseGraham J. DeKeyser, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDimitri E. Delagrammaticas, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRonald E. Delanois, MD Baltimore City Medical Society: Board or committee member Biocomposites, Inc.: Research support CyMedica Orthopedics: Research support DePuy Synthes Product, Inc.: Research support Flexion Therapeutics: Research support Microport Orthopedics, Inc.: Research support Orthofix, Inc.: Research support Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI): Research support Smith & Nephew: Research support Stryker: Research support Tissue Gene: Research support United Orthopedic Corporation: Research supportCraig J. Della Valle, MD Arthritis Foundation: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Knee Society: Board or committee member MidAmerica Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Navbit: Stock or stock Options Orthopedics Today: Editorial or governing board Orthophor and Surgiphor: Stock or stock Options Parvizi Surgical Innovations: Stock or stock Options SLACK Incorporated: Editorial or governing board; Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Research support Stryker: Research support Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Zimmer: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportMatthew Dicaprio, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery, Inc.: Board or committee member American Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Musculoskeletal Tumor Society: Board or committee member NYSSOS: Board or committee memberMatthew J. Dietz, MD Guidepoint Consulting: Paid consultant Heraeus Medical: Paid consultant Heraeus Medical USA: Research support Peptilogics: Research support; Stock or stock Options; Unpaid consultantChristian Donovan This individual reported nothing to discloseKathryn Dotterweich This individual reported nothing to discloseJacob M. Drew, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid presenter or speaker Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board KCI: Paid consultantJustin N. Duke, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Innomed: IP royalties Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardStephen T. Duncan, MD Bone Support: Paid consultant BoneSupport: Research support Heraeus: Paid consultant Heron: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Editorial or governing board Kentucky Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee member Medtronic: Research support MiCare: Stock or stock Options OrthAlign: Paid consultant ROM3: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Research support Stryker: Research support Zimmer: Paid consultant; Research supportJohn M. Dundon, MD Canary medical: Research support Zimmer: Paid presenter or speaker; Research support87www.AAHKS.org/MeetingPaul J. Duwelius, MD AAOS: Board or committee member AJRR: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Operation Walk Freedom to Move CEO: Board or committee member Providence Orthopedic Institute: Research support Zimmer: IP royalties; Research supportRobert Easton, MD Encore Medical: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerJon P. Edgington, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseEric O. Eisemon, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKarim A. Elsharkawy, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAhmed K. Emara, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseChijindu Emenari, MD, MBA This individual reported nothing to discloseStephen M. Engstrom, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DJ Orthopaedics: Paid consultantOrry Erez, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member New York State Society of Orthopedic Surgeons: Board or committee member Premia Spine: Stock or stock OptionsMichael P. Erossy, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAlexander R. Farid, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseThomas K. Fehring, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportMichael J. Feldstein, MD, MS Allay Therapeutics: Stock or stock Options muvr: Stock or stock OptionsJames E. Feng, MD, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseDiana Fernandez Rodriguez, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKathryn L. Fideler, MD, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseYale A. Fillingham, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Exactech, Inc: IP royalties; Paid consultant Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Medacta: IP royalties; Paid consultant Parvizi Surgical Innovations: Stock or stock Options Saunders/Mosby Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Zimmer: Paid consultantCharles M. Fisher, PT This individual reported nothing to discloseAndreas Fontalis, MD, MSc This individual reported nothing to discloseMarcus C. Ford, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Research support Osteoremedies: Paid consultantEnrico M. Forlenza, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseChris M.A. Frampton, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseJeffrey J. Frandsen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBas L. Fransen, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid M. Freccero, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Conformis: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support ROMTech: Stock or stock OptionsKevin B. Fricka, MD 2ndMD: Paid consultant Caregiver’s Home Health: Other financial or material support Inova Health Care Services: Research support Operation Walk Virginia: Board or committee member OrthAlign: Stock or stock Options OrthoCareRN: Other financial or material support Pulse: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Zimmer: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportMichael Fry, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDonald S. Garbuz, MD Hip Society: Board or committee member Mueller Foundation of North America: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantJonathan P. Garino, MD Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee: Editorial or governing board Pennsylvania Orthopedic Society: Board or committee member Shukla Medical: IP royalties Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Research support2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program88DisclosuresElizabeth B. Gausden, MD, MPH DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantJeffrey A. Geller, MD Clinical Orthopaedics and Related ResearchJournal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board Nimble Health: Paid consultant Orthopaedic Scientific Research Foundation: Research support OrthoSensor: Research support Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Zimmer: Stock or stock OptionsEmmanuel Gibon, MD, PhD DeBogy Molecular: Stock or stock OptionsJeremy M. Gililland, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biomet: Research support CoNextions: Stock or stock Options DJ Orthopaedics: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board MiCare Path: IP royalties OrthoGrid: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Stryker: Paid consultant; Research support Zimmer: Research supportBrian P. Gladnick, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardRahul K. Goel, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDevon D. Goetz, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Society for Arthritic Joint Surgery: Board or committee memberGraham S. Goh, MD AAHKS: Research support BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders: Editorial or governing board Journal of Robotic Surgery: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Research support OREF: Research supportPeter A. Gold, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAshton H. Goldman, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberJeffrey M. Goldstein, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardGregory J. Golladay, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board; Publishing royalties, financial or material support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Stryker: IP royalties Virginia Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee memberJoseph S. Gondusky, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Zimmer: Paid consultantAlejandro Gonzalez Della Valle, MD Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Link Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant Naviswiss: Paid consultant; Research support OrthoDevelopment: IP royalties OrthoSensor: IP royaltiesChancellor F. Gray, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Adler Orthopaedics: IP royalties Debogy Molecular: Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Pivot MedTech: Paid consultant ROM3: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerEric M. Greber, MD Zimmer: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerDaniel Grits, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMatthew J. Grosso, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Convatec: Paid consultant Teladoc Health: Paid consultantAlex Gu, MD American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery, Inc.: Board or committee memberGeorge N. Guild III, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member KCI: Research support Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Research support Total Joint Orthopaedics: Paid consultant; Stock or stock OptionsJonathan A. Guntin, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseFares S. Haddad, MD, FRCS (ORTHO) BOSTAA: Board or committee member British Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Corin: IP royalties Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board Matortho: IP royalties Orthopedics Today: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support89www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIsabella Catrina Haddad British Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board; Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Research support Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportMatthew L. Hadley, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJack M. Haglin, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNikkole M. Haines, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBrian R. Hallstrom, MD AAOS: Board or committee member AJRR: Board or committee memberWilliam G. Hamilton, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biomet: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Inova Health Care Services: Research support Knee Society: Board or committee member Total Joint Orthopedics: IP royalties; Paid consultantBrian R. Hamlin, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Bodycad: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantCharles P. Hannon, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Stryker: Research supportErik J. Hansen, MD Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Research supportMatthew A. Harb, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSteven F. Harwin, MD Stryker: Paid consultant; Stock or stock OptionsJacob A. Haynes, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNathanael D. Heckmann, MD AAOS: Board or committee member AJRR: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Intellijoint Surgical: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options MicroPort Orthopedics: Paid consultantVishal Hegde, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseVictor H. Hernandez, MD, MS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Eli Lilly: Paid consultant OMEGA: Research support Orthodevelopment: Paid consultant Pfizer: Paid consultant Stryker: Paid consultantShane R. Hess, DO This individual reported nothing to discloseThomas R. Hickernell, MD New York State Society of Orthopedic Surgeons: Board or committee memberCarlos A. Higuera, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Ferring Pharmaceuticals: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint infection: Editorial or governing board Journal of Hip Surgery: Editorial or governing board KCI: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Lyfstone: Research support Musculoskeletal Infection Society: Board or committee member OREF: Research support PSI: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Paid consultant; Research support Zimmer: Research supportBrandon Hill, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael T. Hirschmann, MD AGA: Board or committee member BMC Sports Medicine, Arthroscopy, Rehabilitation, Therapy&Technology: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker ESSKA: Board or committee member European Knee Associates (EKA): Board or committee member International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery, and Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Board or committee member Knee Surgery, Sports Traumatology, Arthroscopy: Editorial or governing board Lima: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Muscle Ligament Tendon Journal (MLT): Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Symbios: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerJohn Hobbs This individual reported nothing to discloseChris W. Hoedt, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseGary J. Hooper, MD New Zealand Joint Registry trust: Board or committee memberJessica M. Hooper, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDonald N. Hope, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJohn V. Horberg, MD Zimmer: Paid consultant2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program90DisclosuresLisa C. Howard, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Other financial or material support Stryker: Other financial or material support Zimmer: Other financial or material supportJonathan R. Howell, FRCS Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportRobert E. Howell III, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantMatthew J.W. Hubble, FRCS Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportJames I. Huddleston III, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Apple: Research support Biomet: Paid consultant; Research support CMS/Yale CORE: Paid consultant Corin U.S.A.: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support; Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Exactech, Inc: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee member Porosteon: Stock or stock Options Wolters Kluwer: IP royalties Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Zimmer: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research supportRichard E. Hughes, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseEric Huish, DO Synthes: Paid consultantJason R. Hull, MD DJ Orthopaedics: Paid consultantUgo N. Ihekweazu, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthritis Foundation: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker ROMTech: Stock or stock OptionsRichard Iorio, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Aesculap/B.Braun: Paid consultant American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Bulletin of the Hospital for Joint Disease: Editorial or governing board Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Covina: Stock or stock Options Force Therapeutics: Stock or stock Options JBJS Reviews: Editorial or governing board Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Editorial or governing board MedTel: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Muve Health: Stock or stock Options Pacira: Paid consultant The Green OR: Stock or stock Options Wellbe: Stock or stock OptionsDavid J. Jacofsky, MD Biomet: Research support Johnson & Johnson: Research support Journal of Hip Surgery: Editorial or governing board SLACK Incorporated: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: Research support Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportRina Jain, MD, FRCSC American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Bonesupport: Paid consultantTarun K. Jella, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseDerek R. Jenkins, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Johns Hopkins University Press: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportJason M. Jennings, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Total Joint Orthopedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant Xenex: Paid consultant; Stock or stock OptionsDavid S. Jevsevar, MD, MBA AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Medacta: Paid presenter or speakerLouis B. Jones, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRyland P. Kagan, MD KCI: Research support OrthoDevelopment Corporation: Research support Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Research supportAustin C. Kaidi, MD, MSc This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael S. Kain, MD AAOS: Board or committee member New England Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerGokul V. Kalyanasundaram, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseEli Kamara, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberAtul F. Kamath, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Anterior Hip Foundation: Board or committee member BodyCad: Paid consultant Innomed: IP royalties Johnson & Johnson: Stock or stock Options Ortho Development: Paid consultant Procter & Gamble: Stock or stock Options United Ortho: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Stock or stock OptionsNathan B. Kaplan, MD DJ Orthopaedics: Paid presenter or speakerBabar Kayani, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to disclose91www.AAHKS.org/MeetingJames A. Keeney, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Mid American Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Missouri State Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Orthopedics: Editorial or governing boardMick P. Kelly, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJamil S. Kendall, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid Kerr, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNazim Khan, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseJason J. Kim, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBradley A. King, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseConnor A. King, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseEric M. Kiskaddon, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBrian A. Klatt, MD AAOS: Board or committee member AAOS AAHKS Abstract Review Committee: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biomet: Other financial or material support Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Other financial or material support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Editorial or governing board MSIS: Board or committee member SLACK Incorporated: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: Other financial or material support Stryker: Other financial or material support Zimmer: Other financial or material supportBrock Knapp, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJaclyn A. Konopka, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseViktor E. Krebs, MD Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Stryker: IP royalties; Paid presenter or speaker Stryker Orthopaedics: Paid consultantChad A. Krueger, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantMark Kurapatti, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseYoung Min Kwon, MD, PhD Biomet: Research support Corentec: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Smith & Nephew: Research support Stryker: Research support Zimmer: Research supportClaudette M. Lajam, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support FundamentalVR: Unpaid consultant HJD Bulletin: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardSimon Lalehzarian, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMaxwell K. Langfitt, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDirk R. Larson, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseJesua Law, DO Total Joint Orthopedics: Paid consultant; Research supportCharles M. Lawrie, MD, MSc American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Kowa Pharmaceuticals: Paid presenter or speaker Medtronic: Paid consultant MicroPort Orthopedics: Paid consultant OPUM Technologies: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: IP royalties; Paid consultantDrake G. Lebrun, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseCameron K. Ledford, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery, Inc.: Board or committee memberBrett R. Levine, MD, MS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Elsevier: Editorial or governing board Exactech, Inc: Paid consultant Human kinetics: Editorial or governing board Link Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant MAOA: Board or committee member SLACK Incorporated: Editorial or governing board Zimmer: Paid consultant; Research supportDavid G. Lewallen, MD Accuitive Technologies: Paid consultant Acuitive Technologies: Stock or stock Options Corin U.S.A.: Research support Ketai Medical Devices: Stock or stock Options Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation: Board or committee member Zimmer Biomet: IP royalties; Paid consultantPaul M. Lichstein, MD, MS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program92DisclosuresElizabeth G. Lieberman, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Oregon Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Board or committee member Ruth Jackson Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee memberJay R. Lieberman, MD AAOS: Board or committee member BD Surgiphor: Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Hip Innovation Technology: Stock or stock Options Hip Society: Board or committee member Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation: Board or committee member Saunders/Mosby Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Western Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee memberCharles C. Lin, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAdolph V. Lombardi Jr., MD Central Ohio Orthopaedic Management Company: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Current Concepts in Joint Replacement: Board or committee member Elute, Inc.: Stock or stock Options Firstkind: Research support Hip Society: Board or committee member Innomed: IP royalties Joint Development Corporation: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedics and Traumatology: Editorial or governing board Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Editorial or governing board Knee: Editorial or governing board Operation Walk USA: Board or committee member Parvizi Surgical Innovation: Stock or stock Options Parvizi Surgical Innovation Research Institute: Research support Prescribe Fit: Stock or stock Options SPR Therapeutics: Research support SPR Therapeutics, LLC: Stock or stock Options Surgical Technology International: Editorial or governing board Total Joint Orthopedics: Research support VuMedi: Stock or stock Options Zimmer Biomet: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportDonald B. Longjohn, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseLuke R. Lovro, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseZachary C. Lum, DO American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member JAOAO: Editorial or governing boardSebastien Lustig, MD, PhD International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery, and Orthopaedic Sports Medicine: Board or committee member Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: IP royalties Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerTad M. Mabry, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDeborah J. MacDonald, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseTanya MacDonell, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJustin A. Magnuson, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseCraig R. Mahoney, MD Iowa Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee member Mercy Medical Center Des Moines, Iowa: Board or committee memberKatherine E. Mallett, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid W. Manning, MD Biomet: IP royalties Medacta: IP royalties Medacta USA: Paid consultantLaurens Manning, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseTheodore T. Manson, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Research support Globus Medical: IP royalties Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedics and Traumatology: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Paid consultant Synthes: Research supportJoseph D. Maratt, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Medacta: Paid consultantDavid C. Markel, MD Arboretum Ventures: Stock or stock Options Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Ascension Providence Hospital: Research support HOPCo: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Michigan Arthroplasty Registry Collaborative Quality Initiative: Board or committee member Michigan Orthopedic Society: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Stryker: Paid consultant; Research supportJ. Ryan Martin, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant93www.AAHKS.org/MeetingJ. Bohannon Mason, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Other financial or material support; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportVasilios Mathews, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid J. Mayman, MD Cymedica: Stock or stock Options Hip Society: Board or committee member Imagen: Stock or stock Options Knee Society: Board or committee member MiCare Path: Stock or stock Options OrthAlign: IP royalties; Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: IP royalties Stryker: Paid consultant Wishbone: Stock or stock OptionsD. Clinton McNabb, MD Joint Developement, LLC: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Total Joint Orthopedics: Paid consultantSimon C. Mears, MD, PhD Delta Ortho LLC: Stock or stock Options Fragility Fracture Network: Board or committee member Journal of the American Geriatrics Society: Editorial or governing board SAGE: Editorial or governing boardChristopher M. Melnic, MD Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantR. Michael Meneghini, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DJ Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant Emovi: Stock or stock Options Hip Society: Board or committee member International Congress for Joint Reconstruction: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board KCI: Paid consultant Kinamed: IP royalties; Paid consultant Knee Society: Board or committee member Orthopedics Today: Editorial or governing board Osteoremedies: IP royalties; Paid consultant PeekMed: Stock or stock OptionsDaniel R. Mesko, DO Stryker: Paid consultantNathan W. Mesko, MD Bone Support: Paid consultant Musculoskeletal Tumor Society: Board or committee member ONKOS Surgical: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerSarah Metcalf, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseWilliam M. Mihalko, MD, PhD AAOS: Board or committee member Aesculap/B.Braun: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Society for Testing Materials International: Board or committee member Campbell Foundation: Board or committee member Department of Defense: Research support Hip Society: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Orthopaedic Research: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee member Medtronic: Stock or stock Options Myoscience Inc: Research support National Institutes of Health (NIAMS & NICHD): Research support Orthopaedic Research Society: Board or committee member Orthopedic Clinics of North America: Editorial or governing board Pacira Biosciences, Inc: Paid presenter or speaker Pacira Inc: Paid consultant Saunders/Mosby Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support The Journal of Long Term Effects of Medical Implants: Editorial or governing boardMark E. Mildren, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRobert M. Molloy, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Zimmer: Research supportAndrew P. Monk, FRCS Biomet: Paid presenter or speaker FormusLabs: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Paid consultant 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program94DisclosuresMichael A. Mont, MD 3M: Paid consultant American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Centrexion: Paid consultant CERAS Health: Stock or stock Options CyMedica Orthopedics: Research support Hip Society: Board or committee member Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant; Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee member Kolon TissueGene: Paid consultant Medicus Works LLC: Publishing royalties, financial or material support MirrorAR: Stock or stock Options National Institutes of Health (NIAMS & NICHD): Research support Next Science: Paid consultant Organogenesis: Research support Orthopedics: Editorial or governing board Pacira: Paid consultant Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI): Research support Peerwell: Stock or stock Options Pfizer: Paid consultant RegenLab: Research support Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Surgical Techniques International: Editorial or governing board Up to Date: Publishing royalties, financial or material support USMI: Stock or stock Options Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportMichael Lane Moore, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseVincent M. Moretti, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJ. Craig Morrison, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biomet: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Exactech, Inc: Paid consultant; Research support HealthTrust: Paid consultantWayne E. Moschetti, MD, MS DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Heraeus: Paid presenter or speaker Microgen DX: Other financial or material support OREF: Research support Smith & Nephew: Paid presenter or speakerJoseph T. Moskal, MD, FACS AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Corin U.S.A.: IP royalties Think Surgical: Stock or stock OptionsKyle Mullen, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseTrevor G. Murray, MD Biomet: Paid consultant Prichard Medical: Paid consultant Stryker: Research support Zimmer: Paid consultantThomas G. Myers, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardDenis Nam, MD, MSc KCI: Paid consultant; Research support Stryker: Paid consultant Zimmer: Research supportSumon Nandi, MD, MBA AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportNathaniel J. Nelms, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Research supportMichael E. Neufeld, MD, MSc, FRCSC AAOS: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Research supportJoseph T. Nguyen, MPH Journal of Women’s Sports Medicine: Editorial or governing board The American Journal of Sports Medicine: Editorial or governing boardBrian T. Nickel, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseO. Brant Nikolaus, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseW. Trevor North, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member PeerWell: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Research supportDavid Novikov, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRyan M. Nunley, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons, Board of Directors and Treasurer: Board or committee member Depuy: IP royalties DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Research support Ethicon: Paid consultant Hyalex: Stock or stock Options Medtronic: Paid consultant Microport: IP royalties Mirus: Paid consultant Rom Tech: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Southern Orthopaedic Assoc. 2018 President: Board or committee member Stryker: Research support Zimmer: Research supportDaniel A. Oakes, MD LimaCorporate: Paid consultantChristian T. Oakley, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseJeffrey O'Donnell, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNicholas J. Ogrinc, BA This individual reported nothing to disclosePhilip O. Oladeji, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose95www.AAHKS.org/MeetingAli R. Oliashirazi, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Medtronic: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantSara O'Rourke This individual reported nothing to discloseMelissa N. Orr, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseDionisio Ortiz III, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Arthroscopy: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board ROMTech: Stock or stock OptionsJesse E. Otero, MD, PhD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Research supportJessica L. Page, MD Canadian Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee memberMark W. Pagnano, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties Hip Society: Board or committee member Knee Society: Board or committee member Stryker: IP royalties Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material supportKunal S. Panwar, DO This individual reported nothing to discloseThomas J. Parisi, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKevin W. Park, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseHari K. Parvataneni, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Operative Techniques in Orthopaedics: Editorial or governing board Osteal Therapeutics: Research supportJavad Parvizi, MD, FRCS 3M: Research support Acumed, LLC: Stock or stock Options Aesculap: Research support Alphaeon: Stock or stock Options AO Spine: Research support Becton Dickenson: IP royalties; Paid consultant Biomet: Research support Cardinal Health: Paid consultant Cempra: Research support CeramTec: Research support Ceribell: Stock or stock Options Coracoid: Stock or stock Options Corentec: IP royalties; Paid consultant Datatrace: Publishing royalties, financial or material support DePuy: Research support Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Elute: Stock or stock Options Ethicon: Paid consultant Hip Innovation Technology: Stock or stock Options Illuminus: Stock or stock Options Integra: Research support Intellijoint: Stock or stock Options Jaypee Publishers: Publishing royalties, financial or material support KCI / 3M (Acelity): Paid consultant Lima: Research support MicroGenDx: Paid consultant Molecular Surface Technologies: Stock or stock Options Myoscience: Research support Nanooxygenic: Stock or stock Options National Institutes of Health (NIAMS & NICHD): Research support NDRI: Research support Novartis: Research support OREF: Research support Orthospace: Research support Osteal: Stock or stock Options Parvizi Surgical Innovations and Subsidiaries: Stock or stock Options Peptilogic: Stock or stock Options Peptilogics: Paid consultant Pfizer: Research support PRN Veterinary: Stock or stock Options Rotation Medical: Research support Simplify Medical: Research support SLACK Incorporated: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Smith & Nephew: Research support Sonata: Stock or stock Options Stelkast: Research support Stryker: Research support Synthes: Research support Tenor: Paid consultant TissueGene: Research support Tornier: Research support Wolters Kluwer Health Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Zimmer Biomet: Paid consultant; Research supportJay J. Patel, MD Clarify Health: Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant OssoVR: Stock or stock Options United Orthopedic Corporation (UOC): IP royalties; Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantNirav K. Patel, MD, FRCS Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardChristopher E. Pelt, MD 3M: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Joint Development, LLC: Stock or stock Options Peptilogics: Research support Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Research support TJO (Total Joint Orthopedics): IP royalties; Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Zimmer Biomet: Research supportAndrew M. Pepper, MD Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultantBrett C. Perricelli, MD AAHKS Abstract Review Committee: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Zimmer Biomet: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerStephanie C. Petterson, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseTravis C. Philipp, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program96DisclosuresAndrew Phillips, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseMatthew T. Pigott, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantAmit S. Piple, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNicolas S. Piuzzi, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member ISCT: Board or committee member Journal of Hip Surgery: Editorial or governing board Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Orthopaedic Research Society: Board or committee member Osteal Therapeutics: Research support RegenLab: Research support Signature Orthopaedics: Research support Stryker: Paid consultant Zimmer: Research supportKevin D. Plancher, MD, MPH AAOS: Board or committee member Arthroscopy: Editorial or governing board Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Episurf: IP royalties Geislitch: IP royalties Operative Techniques in Sports Medicine: Editorial or governing board Techniques in Orthopaedics: Editorial or governing boardGregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MSc American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Bone Support: Paid consultant DJ Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultantDexter T. Powell, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseIsabel P. Prado, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseHernan A. Prieto Saavedra, MD Florida Orthopedic Society annual meeting program committee: Board or committee memberLuis Pulido, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseThomas J. Pumo, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSimarjeet Puri, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMihail C. Radulescu, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRichard Rahardja, MD This individual reported nothing to disclosePrem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member ConforMIS: Stock or stock Options FocusMotion: Research support Globus Medical: IP royalties; Paid consultant Johnson & Johnson: Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Stryker: Other financial or material supportAdam J. Rana, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantRachel Ranson, DO, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseRoberta E. Redfern, PhD Zimmer: Employee Research Administrator RoleHarold W. Rees, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Orthopedics: Editorial or governing board PLOS one: Editorial or governing boardMichael S. Reich, MD Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardBenjamin F. Ricciardi, MD Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant HSS Journal: Editorial or governing board Johnson & Johnson: Research support Knee: Editorial or governing boardAndrew B. Richardson, MD Total Joint Orthopedics: Paid consultantAdam A. Rizk, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseRyan N. Robertson, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultantJose A. Rodriguez, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research, HSS Journal: Editorial or governingboard ConforMIS: IP royalties; Paid consultant DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Eastern Orthopaedic Association Nomination Committee: Board or committee member Exactech, Inc: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Medacta: IP royalties; Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Tracpatch: Stock or stock OptionsSamuel Rodriguez, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid Rodriguez Quintana, MD Zimmer: Paid consultantJeremy A. Ross, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseLauren A. Ross This individual reported nothing to discloseAlexander L. Roth, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJoshua C. Rozell, MD New York State Society of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Board or committee memberPedro J. Rullan, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose97www.AAHKS.org/MeetingAlexander P. Sah, MD Convatec: Paid presenter or speaker Hereaus: Paid presenter or speaker Medtronic: Paid presenter or speaker OrthAlign: Paid presenter or speaker Pacira: Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Smith & Nephew: Research support Zimmer: Research supportJeffrey W. Salin, DO Zimmer: Paid consultantKalpak Sarangdhar This individual reported nothing to discloseAdam A. Sassoon, MD, MS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biocomposites Inc.: Paid consultant Biocomposites, Inc.: Research support Journal of Knee Surgery: Editorial or governing board Orthalign: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantArjun Saxena, MD, MBA AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery, Inc.: Board or committee member Corin U.S.A.: Paid consultant Eastern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Halyard: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery American: Editorial or governing board Journal of Surgical Orthopaedic Advances: Editorial or governing board Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Editorial or governing board Parvizi Surgical Innovations: Stock or stock Options United Orthopaedics: Research supportKathryn L. Schabel, MD Oregon Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons: Board or committee member Western Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Zimmer: Research supportPeter L. Schilling, MD, MSc Clarify Health Solutions: Research support; Stock or stock Options Suki (formerly Robin AI): Stock or stock OptionsKenneth J. Schmidt, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDustin J. Schuett, DO AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Society of Military Orthopaedic Surgeons: Board or committee memberSpencer Schulte, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseH. Del Schutte Jr., MD South Carolina Orthopedic Society: Board or committee memberBenjamin J. Schwartz, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board PrecisionOS Technology: Stock or stock OptionsRan Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Gauss surgical: Stock or stock Options Intelijoint: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board PSI: Stock or stock Options Smith & Nephew: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research supportChloe E.H. Scott, MD, FRCS (ORTHO) British Association for Surgery of the Knee: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid presenter or speaker Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board Pfizer: Paid consultant Stryker: Paid consultantTravis S. Scudday, MD Corin U.S.A.: Paid consultant DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Exactech, Inc: Research supportPeter K. Sculco, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker EOS Imaging: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Intellijoint Surgical: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Stock or stock Options Intelljoint Surgical: Research support Lima Corporate: Paid consultant Parvizi Surgical Innovation: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Paid consultantJoseph Serino, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseRobert A. Sershon, MD 2ndMD: Paid consultantElvire Servien, MD, PhD Corin U.S.A.: Research support Smith & Nephew: Research supportThorsten M. Seyler, MD, PhD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Heraeus: Paid consultant Lippincott Williams & Wilkins: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Musculoskeletal Infection Society: Board or committee member Next Science: Research support Pattern Health: IP royalties Restor3d: IP royalties Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Total Joint Orthopedics, Inc.: Paid consultant Zimmer: Research support2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program98DisclosuresRoshan P. Shah, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Frontiers in Surgery: Editorial or governing board Link Orthopaedics: Paid consultant Monogram: Paid consultant OnPoint: Unpaid consultant Parvizi Surgical Innovations: Stock or stock Options U.S. Food and Drug Administration: Board or committee member Zimmer: Paid consultantShivesh Shah, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseVivek M. Shah, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantAlisina Shahi, MD, PhD Bonefoam: Paid consultantCambize Shahrdar, MD Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardJonathan H. Shaw, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseGerard A. Sheridan, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMatthew Sherman, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseNeil P. Sheth, MD AAOS: Board or committee member Eastern Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Elsevier: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Medacta: Paid consultant Microport: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantAhmed Siddiqi, MD, MBA AZ Solutions, LLC: Unpaid consultant AZSolutions, LLC: Stock or stock Options Intellijoint Surgical: Paid consultant Monogram Orthopaedics: Stock or stock Options ROM Tech: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Paid consultantRafael J. Sierra, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Anchor study group: Board or committee member Biomet: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Cytori: Research support DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee member Link Orthopaedics: IP royalties; Paid consultant Muller Foundation: Board or committee member Orthalign: IP royalties; Research support Orthoalign: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Stryker, Biomet: Research support Think: Paid consultant Zimmer: IP royalties; Research supportKeerat Singh, MD Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantZachary W. Sisko, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJames D. Slover, MD AAOS: Board or committee member AJRR Hip Society Steering Comm Member: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Biomet: Research support Hip Society: Board or committee member Horizon Pharma: Paid consultant Pacira: Paid presenter or speaker PCORI Advisor Board Shared Decsion Making: Board or committee member Smith & Nephew: Research supportEric B. Smith, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSpencer Smith, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseDavid H. So, MD, FAAOS Exactech, Inc: Paid consultant MicroPort: Paid consultant OrthAlign: Paid consultant United Orthopedic Corporation: Paid consultantNipun Sodhi, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKevin A. Sonn, MD DJO Surgical: Paid presenter or speakerRichard D. Southgate, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMark J. Spangehl, MD Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Research support Heraeus: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Sonoran Biosciences: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Research supportScott M. Sporer, MD, MS American Joint Replacement Registy: Board or committee member DJO Surgical: IP royalties; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee member Osteoremedies: IP royalties; Paid consultant SLACK Incorporated: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Zimmer: IP royaltiesBryan D. Springer, MD AJRR: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Convatec: Paid consultant ICJR: Board or committee member Journal bone and joint infection: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Osteoremedies: IP royalties; Paid consultant Stryker: IP royalties; Paid consultantSeth N. Stake, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose99www.AAHKS.org/MeetingJeffrey B. Stambough, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Joint Replacement Registry (AJRR): Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Medacta: Paid consultant Signature Orthopaedics: IP royalties Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantJonathon R. Staples, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseAlexandra Stavrakis, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberRichard Steer, MD Stryker: Paid consultantRobert S. Sterling, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member American Orthopaedic Association: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Journal of Surgical Education: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant Zimmer: Paid consultantBenjamin M. Stronach, MD, MS AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DJ Orthopaedics: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Joint Development LLC: Stock or stock Options Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board MiCare Path: IP royalties Sawbones/Pacific Research Laboratories: IP royalties Tightline Development LLC: IP royaltiesLouis S. Stryker, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardMichael J. Stuart, MD Americal Journal of Sports Medicine: Editorial or governing board Arthrex, Inc: IP royalties; Paid consultant; Research support Stryker: Research supportMikaela H. Sullivan, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseDaniel C. Sun, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSean A. Sutphen, DO This individual reported nothing to discloseRyan M. Sutton, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseHannah J. Szapary, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMariam Taha, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseJenni Tahmassebi, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseSaad Tarabichi, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael J. Taunton, MD AAOS: Board or committee member American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Enovis: IP royalties; Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Mid America Orthopedic Association: Board or committee member ONKOS: Paid consultantMei Lin Tay, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseE. Bailey Terhune, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSavyasachi C. Thakkar, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board KCI: Unpaid consultant OrthAlign: Unpaid consultantZachary P. Thielen, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseJeremiah Thomas, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMatthew J. Thompson, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseGemma Toland This individual reported nothing to discloseRobert W. Tracey, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseKrishna R. Tripuraneni, MD Alio: Stock or stock Options Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Exactech, Inc: Paid consultant Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Orthopaedic Implant Company: Stock or stock Options Sparta Biomedical: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Research supportRobert T. Trousdale, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Hip Society: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board Knee Society: Board or committee memberAudrey K. Tsao, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardCreighton C. Tubb, MD Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardKim K. Tucker, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speakerSailesh Tummala, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseSharlynn Tuohy, PT This individual reported nothing to discloseArman Vahabi, MD This individual reported nothing to disclose2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program100DisclosuresJonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD, FAAOS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Aware: Stock or stock Options Corin U.S.A.: IP royalties; Stock or stock Options DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: IP royalties; Paid consultant Intellijoint Surgical: Paid consultant; Stock or stock Options Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery British: Editorial or governing board Motion Insights: Stock or stock Options Ortho AI: Stock or stock Options Polaris: Stock or stock Options Stryker: Paid consultantBradford S. Waddell, MD Current Reviews in Musculoskeletal Medicine: Editorial or governing board OrthAlign: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Paid consultantJennifer C. Wang, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseKarina Wang, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseLucian C. Warth, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member DJO: Paid consultant Link Orthopaedics: Paid consultant Medacta: Paid consultant OsteoRemedies: Paid consultantJonathan E. Webb, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseTravis R. Weiner This individual reported nothing to discloseMitchell C. Weiser, MD AAOS: Board or committee memberSebastian Welling, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseLuke D. Wesemann, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseEric White, MD Opah S.V.: Stock or stock OptionsPaul M. Wilkie, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseBradley W. Wills, MD B one: IP royalties; Paid consultantJacob M. Wilson, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseErik Woelber, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseNoelle Wojciechowski, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseSigita Wolfe, MA This individual reported nothing to discloseJesse I. Wolfstadt, MD DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid presenter or speakerWendy W. Wong, MD AAOS: Board or committee member California Medical Association: Board or committee member GLG: Paid consultant Ruth Jackson Orthopaedic Society: Board or committee memberChristine J. Wu, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMark Wu, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseCody C. Wyles, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseEric J. Yakish, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseWenyun Yang, MS This individual reported nothing to discloseAdolph J. Yates Jr., MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing boardPatrick J. Yep, MPH This individual reported nothing to discloseJung Yoo, MD Orthofix, Inc.: Research support Osiris Therapeutics: IP royaltiesRichard S. Yoon, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthrex, Inc: Paid consultant Bicomposites: Research support Biomet: Research support BuiltLean: Unpaid consultant DePuy, A Johnson & Johnson Company: Paid consultant Foundation for Physician Advancement: Board or committee member Foundation of Orthopaedic Trauma: Board or committee member Horizon Therapeutics: Paid presenter or speaker LIfeNet Health: Paid consultant; Research support Organogenesis: Research support OrthoGrid: Paid consultant Orthopaedic Trauma Association: Board or committee member ORTHOXEL: Paid consultant SI Bone: Paid consultant Springer: Publishing royalties, financial or material support Stryker: Paid consultant Synthes: Paid consultant; Research support Use Lab: Paid consultant WNT Scientific: Stock or stock OptionsSimon W. Young, FRACS American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Auckland Orthopaedics Ltd: Stock or stock Options Axis Sports Medicine: Stock or stock Options Saunders/Mosby Elsevier: Editorial or governing board Smith & Nephew: Research support Stryker: Paid consultant; Paid presenter or speaker; Research support Surgical Solutions: Stock or stock OptionsMohamed Yousef, MD, PhD This individual reported nothing to disclose101www.AAHKS.org/MeetingKhalid M. Yousuf, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Total Joint Orthopedics: Paid consultant United Orthopedic Corp: Paid consultantMichael J. Zarski, JD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberMark W. Zawadsky, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee memberErik N. Zeegen, MD American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons: Board or committee member Arthroplasty Today: Editorial or governing board Journal of Arthroplasty: Editorial or governing board RadLink Inc.: Stock or stock Options Zimmer: Paid consultant; Research supportAmy Zhao, BA This individual reported nothing to discloseHua Zheng, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseHuiyong Zheng, PhD This individual reported nothing to discloseMegan Zheng, BS This individual reported nothing to discloseMark Zhu, MD This individual reported nothing to discloseMichael G. Zywiel, MD, MSc, FRCSC Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research: Editorial or governing board Expert Review of Medical Devices: Editorial or governing board Johnson & Johnson: Paid consultant Smith & Nephew: Paid consultant2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program102Notes103www.AAHKS.org/Meeting2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program104NotesCase based learning • Peer to peer education Small group setting • Expert facultyVisit AAHKS.org for detailsRadisson Blu Aqua HotelMay 4 6 // Chicago, Illinois2023 AAHKS Spring MeetingFuture AAHKS Meetings2023 AAHKS Spring MeetingMay 4 6, 2023 | Chicago, IL2023 AAHKS Annual MeetingNovember 2 5, 2023Gaylord Texan Resort & Convention CenterGrapevine, TX2024 AAHKS Spring MeetingMay 2 4, 2024 2024 AAHKS Annual MeetingNovember 7 10, 2024Gaylord Texan Resort & Convention CenterGrapevine, TX2025 AAHKS Spring MeetingMay 1 3, 2025 9400 W. Higgins Rd, Suite 230Rosemont, IL 60018 4976847 698 1200www.AAHKS.org


NYU Langone Orthopedics AAOS Booth Schedule March 8 (Wed) 9 am 5 pm March 9 (Th) 9 am 5 pm March 10 (Fr) 9 am 3 pm Morteza Meftah 9:30 10 am Video: Restricted Kinematic Alignment TKA with Pressfit Implants Using Mako Robotic Platform Nicola Fabbri 10 11 am Video: Subtotal Reconstruction of the Calcaneus with Combined Pedicled Fibula Flap and Structural Allograft Video: Distal Tibia Intercalary Reconstruction with Modified Capanna Technique (Free Fibula Flap and Strut Allograft) Nicola Fabbri 9 9.30 am Video: “Pass Through” Total Femur Reconstruction for Hip and Knee Joint Replacement in Polyostotic Fibrous Dysplasia Laith M Jazrawi 9 am Video: ACL Repair with Concomitant Medial Meniscal Repair Using a Cortical Button and Static Suture Based Augmentation Laith M Jazrawi 10 am Video: Repair of Midsubstance Patella Tendon Rupture with Hamstring Autograft Augmentation Nader Paksima 11 11:30 am Video: Nanoscope Wrist Arthroscopy with Open Scaphoid Nonunion Resection Jacques Hacquebord 11:30 am noon Video: Reconstruction of Radial Shaft Defect with Free Fibula Flap Pablo Castañeda 12:30 1 pm Video: Closed Reduction of Developmental Dislocation of the Hip with Application of a Waterproof Cast Dr. Radio Live 11 am 1 pm Show Host(s): Mehul Shah Laith Jazrawi Claudette Lajam Joseph Bosco III Guests: TBA Guillem Gonzalez Lomas and Laith M Jazrawi 1 pm Video: Chronic Pec Major Reconstruction with Allograft Eric Strauss 2 3 pm Video: Combined Tibial Tubercle Osteotomy and Trochlear MACI Charla Fischer 2 2:30 pm Video: Single Position Spine Surgery: ALIF, LLIF, and Posterior Instrumentation and Fusion with Iliac Fixation Nicola Fabbri 2 2:30 pm Video: Hybrid Reconstruction with Modular Cemented Intercalary Prosthesis and Plating for Metastatic Disease of the Humerus Michael J. Alaia 3:30 pm Video: Custom Biplanar HTO After Failed Multiligament Knee Reconstruction Dedicated Exhibit Time (Exclusive Hours of Unopposed Exhibit Hall Time) March 8 (Wed) March 9 (Th) March 10 (Fr) 9 11 am 9 11 am 9 11 am 12:30 1:30 pm 12:30 1:30 pm 12:30 1:30 pm


Cannabidiol for Postoperative Pain Control after Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair Demonstrates No Functional Deficits: 1 Year Follow up of a Randomized Controlled TrialMichael J. Alaia1, Zachary I. Li1, Isabel Chalem1, Eoghan T. Hurley1, Kinjal Vasavada1, Guillem Gonzalez Lomas1, Andrew S. Rokito1, Laith M. Jazrawi1, Kevin Kaplan21Department of Orthopedic Surgery, New York University Langone Health, New York, NY2Jacksonville Orthopaedic Institute, Jacksonville, FL Disclosures•Kevin M. Kaplan: Arthrex, Team 1 LLC, and Orcosa, Inc.•Michael J. Alaia: Bodycad, DePuy Synthes, Arthrex, Gotham Surgical Solutions & Devices, Orcosa, Inc.•Laith M. Jazrawi: Arthrex, Mitek, Smith & Nephew, and Wolters Kluwer Health•Guillem Gonzalez Lomas: Arthrex2Background• Cannabidiol (CBD) has recently demonstrated a positive impact on patient pain and satisfaction immediately after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR)• Despite increasing popularity of non prescription CBD for pain treatment, there are limited high quality studies investigating therapeutic effects and safety long term• Does the addition of CBD to a postoperative regimen cause any changes in clinical outcomes?3PurposeTo evaluate 1 year functional outcomes among patients who previously underwent ARCR and received buccally absorbed cannabidiol or an identical placebo in early post operative pain management.4HypothesisThere will be no significant differences in pain or shoulder function between those who received CBD vs placebo at 1 year follow up.Methods• Inclusion: All opioid naive patients ages 18 75 years undergoing ARCR who previously completed an FDA sanctioned, multi center, placebo controlled, randomized, double blinded trial evaluating the analgesic effects of CBD in immediate postoperative period• Exclusion: Marijuana users, preop opiates, abnormal coag history/VTE, stroke/ACS history 3 months preop, renal/liver failure, on medications with significant interaction with CYP pathway• Randomization Experimental group: 25 mg CBD TID if <80kg and 50 mg of CBD TID if >80kg for 14 days Control group: Identical placebo5Methods Outcomes• Patient reported outcomes at minimum 1 year follow up Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE) score Satisfaction (VAS)• Statistical analyses Mann Whitney U test Fischer’s exact test One way ANOVA with Tukey's post hoc testing (25 mg, 50 mg, placebo)67Methods CONSORT Flow Diagram VARIABLECBDPLACEBOPAge at surgery (years)58.4 ± 9.557.5 ± 10.60.591Sex (female)15 (35.7)14 (35.0)0.946Body mass index28.9 ± 4.828.1 ± 7.60.659Biceps tenodesis7 (16.7)11 (27.5)0.236Subacromial decompression19 (45.2)11 (27.5)0.096Both biceps tenodesis and subacromial decompression10 (23.8)16 (40.0)0.115No. of anchors used3.3 ± 1.63.2 ± 1.40.6608Results Demographics and Operative CharacteristicsVariableCBD (n=42)Placebo (n=40)pVAS Pain0.8 ± 1.61.2 ± 1.80.384ASES93.0 ± 13.991.1 ± 15.00.714Activities of daily living, subscore45.7 ± 7.446.2 ± 5.70.764Achieved PASS34 (81.0)31 (77.5)0.788SANE87.6 ± 12.290.1 ± 13.10.236Satisfaction97.4 ± 5.295.4 ± 9.90.408Surgery met expectations (Y/N)42 (100)39 (97.5)0.488Would be willing to repeat (Y/N)40 (95.2)39 (97.5)0.6169Results Patient Reported Outcomes**Secondary procedures: Three patients, one in the CBD group (2.) and two in the placebo group (5.), underwent arthroscopic revision following the index ARCR (p = 0.611)10Results Subgroup Analysis by DoseVariableCBD 25 mg(n=16)CBD 50 mg(n=26)Placebo(n=40)pVAS Pain0.7 ± 1.40.9 ± 1.81.2 ± 1.80.632ASES93.4 ± 11.292.1 ± 15.891.1 ± 15.00.747Activities of daily living, subscore46.6 ± 5.345.2 ± 8.646.2 ± 5.70.753Achieved PASS13 (83.3)21 (80.8)31 (77.5)0.928SANE87.3 ± 13.187.8 ± 11.990.1 ± 13.10.664Satisfaction97.6 ± 4.497.2 ± 5.795.4 ± 9.90.578Surgery met expectations (Y/N)16 (100)26 (100)39 (97.5)0.603Would be willing to repeat (Y/N)16 (100)24 (92.3)39 (97.5)0.150*Patients <80 kg received 25 mg TID and those >80 kg received the 50 mg dose.Limitations• Patients were no longer blinded regarding which treatment group they were assigned in original study by the time of latest follow up They were not reminded of their allocation during follow up unless specifically requested• Patient reported outcome scores were not collected preoperatively, so it was not possible to calculate the pre to postoperative improvement Original trial randomization would have accounted for differences in baseline function, and the current study was adequately powered to determine differences in clinical outcomes at 1 year follow up• Multiple orthopedic surgeons However surgical technique was largely similar, and the postoperative protocol was uniform across patients in the study11Conclusion• Peri operative use of CBD for pain control among patients undergoing ARCR does not result in any significant differences in patient reported pain, satisfaction, or functional outcomes at least 1 year postoperatively compared to a placebo control• CBD can be considered in a postoperative multimodal pain management regimen without detrimental effects on outcome. 12References1. Alaia MJ, Hurley ET, Vasavada K, et al. Buccally Absorbed Cannabidiol Shows Significantly Superior Pain Control and Improved Satisfaction Immediately After Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: A Placebo Controlled, Double Blinded, Randomized Trial. Am J Sports Med. 2022;50(11):3056 3063.2. Atalay S, Jarocka Karpowicz I, Skrzydlewska E. Antioxidative and Anti Inflammatory Properties of Cannabidiol. Antioxidants. 2019;9(1):21.3. Barber FA. Triple Loaded Single Row Versus Suture Bridge Double Row Rotator Cuff Tendon Repair With Platelet Rich Plasma Fibrin Membrane: A Randomized Controlled Trial. Arthrosc J Arthrosc Relat Surg Off Publ ArthroscAssoc N Am Int Arthrosc Assoc. 2016;32(5):753 761.4. Bouaboula M, Rinaldi M, Carayon P, et al. Cannabinoid receptor expression in human leukocytes. Eur J Biochem. 1993;214(1):173 180.5. Burks RT, Crim J, Brown N, Fink B, Greis PE. A prospective randomized clinical trial comparing arthroscopic single and double row rotator cuff repair: magnetic resonance imaging and early clinical evaluation. Am J Sports Med. 2009;37(4):674 682.6. Chin G, Etiz BAF, Nelson AM, Lim PK, Scolaro JA. Knowledge and Opinion on Cannabinoids Among Orthopaedic Traumatologists. JAAOS Glob Res Rev. 2021;5(4):e21.00047.7. Commissioner O of the. FDA Approves First Drug Comprised of an Active Ingredient Derived from Marijuana to Treat Rare, Severe Forms of Epilepsy. FDA.8. Cvetanovich GL, Gowd AK, Liu JN, et al. Establishing clinically significant outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2019;28(5):939 948.9. De Gregorio D, McLaughlin RJ, Posa L, et al. Cannabidiol modulates serotonergic transmission and reverses both allodynia and anxiety like behavior in a model of neuropathic pain. Pain. 2019;160(1):136 150.10. Deckey DG, Doan M, Hassebrock JD, et al. Prevalence of Cannabinoid (CBD) Use in Orthopaedic Sports Medicine Patients. Orthop J Sports Med. 2022;10(4):23259671221087628.11. Fan N, Yuan S, Du P, et al. The effects of smoking on clinical and structural outcomes after rotator cuff repair: a systematic review and meta analysis. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2022;31(3):656 667.12. Gardener H, Wallin C, Bowen J. Heavy metal and phthalate contamination and labeling integrity in a large sample of US commercially available cannabidiol (CBD) products. Sci Total Environ. 2022;851(Pt 1):158110.13. Haffar A, Khan IA, Abdelaal MS, Banerjee S, Sharkey PF, Lonner JH. Topical Cannabidiol (CBD) After Total Knee Arthroplasty Does Not Decrease Pain or Opioid Use: A Prospective Randomized Double Blinded Placebo Controlled Trial. J Arthroplasty. 2022;37(9):1763 1770.14. Hammell DC, Zhang LP, Ma F, et al. Transdermal cannabidiol reduces inflammation and pain related behaviours in a rat model of arthritis. Eur J Pain Lond Engl. 2016;20(6):936 948.15. Iffland K, Grotenhermen F. An Update on Safety and Side Effects of Cannabidiol: A Review of Clinical Data and Relevant Animal Studies. Cannabis Cannabinoid Res. 2017;2(1):139 154.16. Jildeh TR, Abbas MJ, Hasan L, Moutzouros V, Okoroha KR. Multimodal Nonopioid Pain Protocol Provides Better or Equivalent Pain Control Compared to Opioid Analgesia Following Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Surgery: A Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial. Arthrosc J Arthrosc Relat Surg Off Publ Arthrosc Assoc N Am Int Arthrosc Assoc. 2022;38(4):1077 1085.17. Johnson E, Kilgore M, Babalonis S. Cannabidiol (CBD) product contamination: Quantitative analysis of Δ9 tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9 THC) concentrations found in commercially available CBD products. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2022;237:109522.18. Kroenke K, Cheville A. Management of Chronic Pain in the Aftermath of the Opioid Backlash. JAMA. 2017;317(23):2365 2366.19. Manzanares J, Julian M, Carrascosa A. Role of the Cannabinoid System in Pain Control and Therapeutic Implications for the Management of Acute and Chronic Pain Episodes. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2006;4(3):239 257.20. Maurer GE, Mathews NM, Schleich KT, Slayman TG, Marcussen BL. Understanding Cannabis Based Therapeutics in Sports Medicine. Sports Health. 2020;12(6):540 546.21. Miller H, De Leo N, Badach J, et al. Role of marijuana components on the regenerative ability of stem cells. Cell Biochem Funct. 2021;39(3):432 441.22. Mlost J, Bryk M, Starowicz K. Cannabidiol for Pain Treatment: Focus on Pharmacology and Mechanism of Action. Int J Mol Sci. 2020;21(22):8870.23. Morris BJ, Mir HR. The Opioid Epidemic: Impact on OrthopaedicSurgery. JAAOS J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2015;23(5):267 271.24. Moutzouros V, Jildeh TR, Khalil LS, et al. A Multimodal Protocol to Diminish Pain Following Common Orthopedic Sports Procedures: Can We Eliminate Postoperative Opioids? Arthrosc J Arthrosc Relat Surg Off PublArthrosc Assoc N Am Int Arthrosc Assoc. 2020;36(8):2249 2257.25. Munro S, Thomas KL, Abu Shaar M. Molecular characterization of a peripheral receptor for cannabinoids. Nature. 1993;365(6441):61 65.26. Naik H, Trojian TH. Therapeutic Potential for Cannabinoids in Sports Medicine: Current Literature Review. Curr Sports Med Rep. 2021;20(7):345 350.27. Park JH, Oh KS, Kim TM, et al. Effect of Smoking on Healing Failure After Rotator Cuff Repair. Am J Sports Med. 2018;46(12):2960 2968.28. Pertwee RG. Cannabinoid pharmacology: the first 66 years. Br J Pharmacol. 2006;147(S1):S163 S171.29. Research iData. Over 460,000 Rotator Cuff Surgeries per Year Reported in the United States by iData Research. iData Research.30. Sallay PI, Reed L. The measurement of normative American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2003;12(6):622 627.31. Sobhy MH, Khater AH, Hassan MR, El Shazly O. Do functional outcomes and cuff integrity correlate after single versus double row rotator cuff repair? A systematic review and meta analysis study. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol Orthop Traumatol. 2018;28(4):593 605.32. Tashjian RZ. Epidemiology, natural history, and indications for treatment of rotator cuff tears. Clin Sports Med. 2012;31(4):589 604.33. Tashjian RZ, Shin J, Broschinsky K, et al. Minimal clinically important differences in the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog scale pain scores after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2020;29(7):1406 1411.34. Theosmy EG, Bradian AK, Cheesman QT, Radack TM, Lazarus MD, Austin LS. Opioid Free Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair. Orthopedics. 2021;44(2):e301 e305.35. Urbaniak, G. C., & Plous, S. (2013). Research Randomizer (Version 4.0) [Computer software]. Retrieved on June 22, 2013. http://www.randomizer.org/36. Vela J, Dreyer L, Petersen KK, Arendt Nielsen L, Duch KS, Kristensen S. Cannabidiol treatment in hand osteoarthritis and psoriatic arthritis: a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial. Pain. 2022;163(6):1206 1214.37. Verrico CD, Wesson S, Konduri V, et al. A randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study of daily cannabidiol for the treatment of canine osteoarthritis pain. Pain. 2020;161(9):2191 2202.38. Wylie JD, Beckmann JT, Granger E, Tashjian RZ. Functional outcomes assessment in shoulder surgery. World J Orthop. 2014;5(5):623 633.39. Xu DH, Cullen BD, Tang M, Fang Y. The Effectiveness of Topical Cannabidiol Oil in Symptomatic Relief of Peripheral Neuropathy of the Lower Extremities. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2020;21(5):390 402.40. Yanik EL, Chamberlain AM, Keener JD. Trends in rotator cuff repair rates and comorbidity burden among commercially insured patients younger than the age of 65 years, United States 2007 2016. JSES Rev Rep Tech. 2021;1(4):309 316.41. Zhang HXB, Bean BP. Cannabidiol Inhibition of Murine Primary Nociceptors: Tight Binding to Slow Inactivated States of Nav1.8 Channels. J Neurosci Off J Soc Neurosci. 2021;41(30):6371 6387.13


Page 1 of 7 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: March 29, 2005 Reissue Date: 4/1/2024 Acceptance and/or Solicitation of Gifts or Benefits from Vendors, Patients, or Other Third Parties I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to ensuring ethical and compliant behavior that does not violate federal and state laws and regulations surrounding gift giving and other activities between NYU Langone Health and non NYU Langone Health individuals or entities. This Policy provides guidance for Members of the NYU Langone Health Community in an effort to ensure that Individuals are able to perform their job responsibilities and make objective decisions that are in the best interest of NYU Langone Health and its employees and patients, free from undue influence. II. Policy Purpose To provide guidance regarding appropriate practices for receiving gifts and responding to Vendor invitations that is in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations and NYU Langone Health policies. III. Applicability of the Policy This Policy applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. “ IV. Definitions Anti Kickback Statute: federal and state laws which prohibit the knowing and willful, direct or indirect, exchange (or offer to exchange), directly or indirectly, of anything of value in cash or in kind for patient, product, or service referrals, or to induce referrals. This prohibition extends to any purchasing, leasing, ordering, arranging for or recommending any purchasing, leasing, or ordering of any goods and services. Gift or Benefit: refers to anything of value accepted from a patient, friend or family member of the patient, a Vendor, or other non NYU Langone Health source. Examples of Gifts or Benefits include cash, gift cards, checks, stock, subsidies, use of personal property or real estate (including interests therein), food or beverages, transportation, lodging, membership dues, admission fees, tickets to sporting or other events, entertainment, Vendor invitations to social events or other activities with no educational purpose, promotional items (including office products with the Vendor's logo), goods, donations, honoraria, favors, prizes, offers of employment or business relationships that compete or conflict with a Member of the NYU Langone Health Community’s role and/or responsibilities, discounted goods or services, preferential rates or forgiveness of debts or loans, or anything reasonably regarded as providing a financial gain or advantage to either the recipient or his/her Immediate Family Member. Page 2 of 7 Immediate Family Member: means a family member by blood, marriage or adoption; domestic partner, significant other or roommate; or an individual who is not legally related but who resides with a Member of the NYU Langone Community. Member of the NYU Langone Health Community or Individual: includes employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. Vendor: a company and/or its representative or agent, contractor, or any other person that provides or seeks to provide goods and/or services to NYU Langone Health, currently does business with, or seeks to do business with, NYU Langone Health. V. Policy To prevent undue influence or a potential conflict of interest, Members of the NYU Langone Health Community may not accept or solicit a Gift or Benefit from Vendors, patients, or others who may influence or appear to influence the recipient’s decision making, unless accepted in accordance with this Policy. The Office of Development and Alumni Affairs (“Office of Development”) and the Office of Science and Research are the only departments authorized to accept a Gift or Benefit for NYU Langone Health’s academic, educational, research, and/or patient care activities. A Gift or Benefit may only be accepted in accordance with this Policy. This Policy is not intended to prohibit the exchange of Gifts among employees or Individuals who have independent personal relationships (e.g., holiday, birthday) provided the Gift is not intended to influence the status of the individual giving the Gift. Any such Gifts should be purchased with the employee’s personal funds, not with Procurement Cards (P cards) or other NYU Langone Health funds. If you are uncertain about a specific gift giving situation, it is your responsibility to seek guidance from your supervisor or the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). A. Acceptance of Gifts and Benefits from Patients and their Families While this Policy prohibits the acceptance of Gifts and Benefits, on occasion, a Member of the NYU Langone Health Community may be offered Gifts from patients and/or the patient’s family in appreciation for the management and care of the patient. In such instances, the following guidelines should be followed to prevent non compliance with this Policy: 1) An Individual should not solicit a Gift or Benefit from a patient, their family member(s), or other individuals or company. 2) Unsolicited Gifts of nominal value (e.g., flowers, food, fruit baskets) may be accepted from patients and their families provided the Gift can be shared with other members of the recipient’s department, unit or division, and the Gift is not related to past or anticipated preferential treatment. 3) Gifts containing alcohol should not be accepted under any circumstances. 4) Gifts of cash, gift cards or certificates, gratuities, or other monetary equivalents of any kind should not be accepted for any reason. Donations to NYU Langone Health may be suggested instead of giving a personal monetary Gift in instances where a patient and/or the patient’s family want to express their appreciation. The patient/family should be referred to the Office of Development in order to make their donation. Page 3 of 7 In the event an Individual is offered or receives a Gift and is unable to refuse acceptance or return the Gift, the matter should be disclosed to the Individual’s supervisor. If the Gift is in the form of a check or cash, the Gift giver should be informed that the Gift will be delivered to the Office of Development for processing. The Individual should immediately contact the Office of Development at 212 404 3685 and provide location and contact information for pick up of the Gift including the full name and address of the gift giver, so that a receipt can be provided. B. Vendor Offers, Invitations, Sponsored Meals, and Other Gifts and Benefits Acceptance of Vendor invitations to attend an offsite event is generally discouraged unless there is a bona fide academic or educational purpose for the event. Prior to accepting the invitation, the Individual should consult with their supervisor. Each invitation should be evaluated independently and carefully for the appearance of any conflict of interest. Vendor invitations should only be accepted if the following conditions are met: 1) there is a valid business reason to attend an event, 2) the value of the event is of reasonable cost, 3) the invitation is extended to all clients (e.g., applicable members of the department) (for example, “exclusive” invitations should be declined), and 4) the invitation is within the limitations outlined in this Policy relative to Gifts and grants to support education and research and underwrite conference travel, lodging and meals, if applicable. Any Individual who receives an invitation or offer of a Gift or Benefit from a Vendor should disclose the situation to their supervisor. If the supervisor determines that the invitation or offer should be declined, the supervisor's decision may be appealed to the responsible Vice President, Dean, or Vice Dean. If the supervisor has any questions about whether or not acceptance of the Vendor invitation is permissible, they should confer with IACERM. Individuals may not accept payment or reimbursement for travel, lodging, or meal expenses from Vendors to attend offsite product or equipment demonstrations that NYU Langone Health is considering purchasing. Consult with IACERM if there is any question regarding the appropriateness of accepting a Gift or Benefit. Vendor Sponsored Meals On premise meals offered by Vendors are prohibited unless they are provided in conjunction with a bona fide educational event and must be in accordance with this Policy. Nominal Vendor Gifts or Benefits In general, an Individual should not solicit a Gift or Benefit from a Vendor. Occasional de minimus Gifts from Vendors, such as promotional pens, mugs, and tote bags are permissible, but should be shared with others in the department whenever possible. Meals provided by Vendors should not be accepted, even if they can be shared, with the exception of those provided in conjunction with bona fide educational events. Individuals may not accept Vendor Gifts or Benefits in exchange for prescribing or advocating the Vendor’s products or services or for performing marketing tasks during the course of practicing medicine or performing research and development services. Page 4 of 7 C. Vendor Patient Educational Materials Vendors are prohibited from directly placing any promotional or educational materials in any patient care area or waiting area of any NYU Langone Health inpatient or outpatient site. Educational materials must be given to the department manager, director, administrator, or their designee, for review and will be distributed to patients at such individual’s discretion. D. Gifts and Grants for Education, Research and Conference Travel, Lodging, and Meals Gifts and Grants to Support Research or Education Gifts or grants from Vendors to support research or education may be accepted by NYU Langone Health only if: 1) the Gift or grant is accompanied with the Vendor's written certification that the Gift or grant is given to support NYU Langone Health research or education and is not intended to influence purchasing decisions or research outcomes. The certification should be submitted to the Office of Development or the Office of Science and Research, as appropriate; 2) it is approved and managed by the Office of Development or the Office of Science and Research, as appropriate; and 3) the Gift or grant is paid directly to NYU Langone Health. This Policy does not prohibit grants from, or contracts with, Vendors for research or clinical trials under a formal agreement executed through the Office of Science and Research Sponsored Programs Administration. Gifts to Underwrite Educational Conferences and Seminars at NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Health may accept an offer from a Vendor to underwrite or subsidize the cost of an educational conference, meeting, or seminar provided: 1) it is approved by the Office of Development or the Office of Science and Research, or, with respect to Certified Continuing Medical Education (“CCME”) activity, NYUGSOM or NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, as appropriate, 2) the subsidy is paid directly to NYU Langone Health, and 3) NYU Langone Health retains responsibility for and control over the selection of content, faculty, education methods, ownership of the materials, and NYU Langone Health attendees. In no event should a subsidy ever be paid directly to an employee, faculty member, student, resident, fellow, trainee, or volunteer involved with the conference, meeting, or seminar. In addition, all commercial support for CCME activities at NYU Langone Health shall be compliant with ACCME’s Standards for Commercial Support (http://www.accme.org/) and shall be administered in accordance with the policies adopted by NYUGSOM or NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. Such policies provide, among other things, that Vendor sponsored promotional programs cannot be integrated into, or conducted in the middle of, CCME activities held on NYU Langone Health premises, use NYU Langone Health resources, or advertise as being linked to the CCME activity. Gifts for Conference Travel, Lodging, or Meal Expenses Gifts to a special educational or scholarship fund established to underwrite attendance by students, residents, fellows, trainees, and volunteers at educational conferences or for research may be accepted by a Member of the NYU Langone Health Community provided: Page 5 of 7 1) the selection of Individuals who will receive proceeds from the fund is made by NYU Langone Health personnel, 2) the conference or meeting meets the definition of “appropriate”, 3) the Gift is approved by the Office of Development or the Office of Science and Research, as appropriate, and 4) the subsidy is paid directly to NYU Langone Health. For purposes of this Policy, "appropriate" means educational, scientific, or policy making meetings or conferences of national, regional, or specialty medical associations or courses given by visiting professors or faculty recognized as experts in their field. Accepting Gifts or Benefits (e.g., transportation, lodging, meals, or consulting fees) in exchange for attending conferences or meetings which deal solely with the Vendor’s product(s) or services are not appropriate. Faculty attending conferences or meetings as a consultant for a Vendor who is providing or will be providing funds for a research project they are involved in is only permissible if it is disclosed and approved by the IACERM Conflict of Interest Management Unit (“CIMU”) prior to engaging in the activity. Individuals may accept reasonable honoraria and reimbursement for travel, lodging, and modest meal expenses to attend conferences or meetings only if the Individual lectures, makes a presentation, moderates or participates in a panel, acts as a consultant on a topic related to the Individual’s role at NYU Langone Health, or otherwise performs a substantive educational role. If the Individual's role at a conference is solely as an attendee, the Individual may not accept either honoraria or reimbursement for travel, lodging, or meal expenses. All honoraria must be reported in accordance with the applicable NYU Langone Health conflict of interest policy(ies). Drug and device companies have an obligation to report payments for travel, speaking fees, research, meals, and other transfers of value in accordance with the Physician Payments Sunshine Act (the “Sunshine Act”). These payments are tracked in the Center for Medicare & Medicaid’s (“CMS”) Open Payments Reporting System. Physicians should review this information before it is made publicly available on the CMS website, following guidance provided by CIMU. Moreover, physicians should maintain accurate records of these kinds of payments or transfers of value in order to aid in the CMS review and dispute process, and also as a basis for financial interest disclosures as required by the NYU Langone Health conflict of interest policies. E. Fundraising, Lobbying and Political Participation Solicitations for Fundraising Events Members of the NYU Langone Health Community may solicit Vendors, Foundations, or Corporations for Gifts and donations so long as the solicitation: 1) is for a charitable, academic, or educational event organized, managed, sponsored, or approved by the Office of Development, 2) is made generally to vendors in the community and may not be limited to those currently doing, or seeking to do, business with NYU Langone Health 3) clearly indicates that an affirmative or negative response will not factor into any Vendor selection determination for future business with NYU Langone Health, and 4) is in accordance with all other related NYU Langone Health policies. Solicitations from Government Representatives, Lobbying, and Political Participation Members of the NYU Langone Health Community who are responsible for conducting transactions or handling contracts with government agencies on behalf of NYU Langone Health are prohibited Page 6 of 7 from providing or offering Gifts or Benefits of any kind with the intent of influencing government officials. Individuals, who are approached by government representatives with requests or demands for any kind of Gift or Benefit from NYU Langone Health, should immediately report it to IACERM or the Office of Legal Counsel. NYU Langone Health is prohibited from making direct campaign contributions or sponsoring Members of the NYU Langone Health Community at political fundraising events. However, Members of the NYU Langone Health Community may make contributions using their own personal funds. Any requests related to lobbying for a specific cause, inviting government officials to events, providing meals, or purchasing tables (or similar) for fundraising events should be coordinated through the Office of Government and Community Affairs. VI. Policy Enforcement The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management has general responsibility for implementation and enforcement of this Policy. Individuals who are found to be non compliant with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and institutional policies may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health. Such institutional policies include, but are not limited to, the Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Program, and the policies set forth in the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program Contract, GME House Staff manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, By laws of the Medical Staff, and Patient Care and Safety Standards. Individuals found to be in violation of the federal or state Anti Kickback Statutes may also incur fines, imprisonment, and/or exclusion from federal and state reimbursement programs (e.g., Medicaid and Medicare). This Policy shall remain in effect unless terminated or superseded by a revised and/or updated policy issued by IACERM. VII. Related Policies and Documents Business Expenses Code of Conduct Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating and Protection from Retaliation Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Distinguishing Between Gift and Sponsored Awards Donations from Employees and Faculty in Support of their Own Programs Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Faculty Consulting NYU Langone Fundraising Guidelines: Highlights for Department Use Relationship of Pharmaceutical and Related Biomedical Industries to Graduate Medical Education Speaking Supported by Industry Supplier Access VIII. Version History March 29, 2005 Original Policy May 23, 2012 Reviewed and Revised July 27, 2017 Reviewed and Revised November 27, 2019 Reviewed and Revised Page 7 of 7 August 1, 2022 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Accounting for Disclosures of PHI Policy NYU Langone Health must record certain Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) because patients have a right to receive an accounting of those Disclosures. Disclosures that must be accounted for and included upon request are those made: • for public health activities (e.g., reporting communicable diseases or births/deaths) • to report victims of abuse, neglect, and domestic violence • for health oversight activities (e.g., requested by the Federal Office of Inspector General or the New York State Department of Health) • for judicial and administrative proceedings (e.g., pursuant to a valid subpoena) • for reports about decedents (e.g., to coroners, medical examiners, and funeral directors) • for cadaveric organ, eye, or tissue donation purposes • for research conducted under an Institutional Review Board Waiver of Authorization • to avert a serious threat to health and safety • for certain specialized government functions (e.g., military and veterans affairs; medical suitability determinations) • for workers compensation purposes • any other Disclosure that is not specifically excluded, as provided below Workforce Members are responsible for recording the necessary Disclosures. Any NYU Langone Health Workforce Member who Discloses PHI for any reason other than those listed below must record the Disclosure in the patient’s medical record or in the Accounting of Disclosures Database, as outlined in this Policy. Disclosures that do not need to be included are those made: • for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operation purposes • to the patient or their Personal Representative • in accordance with the patient’s written Authorization • incidental Disclosures • to family or friends involved in the patient’s care or for notification purposes (e.g., to notify a family member of the individual’s death) • for national security or intelligence purposes • to law enforcement or correctional institutions about an inmate or other person in legal custody • made for the creation of De Identified Information or a Limited Data Set Page 2 of 3 The Accounting of Disclosures Database is accessible: • at https://central.nyumc.org/xm/Private/AccountingOfDisclosures/SitePages/default.aspxn • through the Inside Health Applications Catalog page. Disclosures should only be made in accordance with the NYU Langone Health’s established policies and procedures. Procedure 1. When PHI is Disclosed for an included purpose, the Disclosure must be recorded in the patient’s medical record or in the Accounting of Disclosures Database, as each record is shared. • Include in the electronic medical record (i.e., Epic) using the quick disclosure tool when possible. • Include in the Accounting of Disclosures Database when: the Disclosure involves multiple records, the Workforce Member does not have access to the medical record, or the Disclosure cannot otherwise be tracked in the medical record. 2. Workforce Members must record the following information for each Disclosure: • who the Disclosure was made by (e.g., NYU Langone Hospitals, NYUSOM, including the specific practice) • the patient’s first and last name, medical record number, and date of birth • the date the Disclosure was made, • the purpose of the Disclosure, which reasonably information the patient of the basis of the Disclosure (e.g., health oversight activities, to report a suspicion of child abuse, pursuant to a subpoena) • a brief description of the PHI Disclosed (e.g., a particular diagnosis or injury, particular test result, date of birth, etc.), and • the recipient (type, e.g., another covered entity, government office) of the Disclosed information, including (if known) the name, address, and email address Additional Procedures for Research Disclosures 1. Investigators are responsible for accounting for Disclosures of PHI that are made without patient Authorization for Research in compliance with this Policy. This includes disclosures made to external investigators (i.e., a researcher who is not a Workforce Member). 2. If Disclosures are made to an external investigator for a particular Research purpose involving fifty (50) or more individuals pursuant to a Waiver of Authorization by the IRB or Privacy Board, the following information should be given to the IRB by the Investigator and maintained by the IRB in a Protocol Listing: • the name of the protocol or other Research activity, Page 3 of 3 • a brief description of the Research protocol or other Research activity, including the purpose of the Research and the criteria for selecting particular records, • a brief description of the type of PHI that was Disclosed, • the date or period of time during which Disclosures occurred, and • the name, address, and telephone number of the entity that sponsored the Research and of the researcher to whom the information was Disclosed. Related Documents De Identification of PHI and Limited Data Sets HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Right to Request an Accounting of Disclosures Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Use and Disclosure of PHI for Research Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.528 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Advance Care Planning (ACP) A Comprehensive GuideDepartment of Nursing and Patient Care Services Advance Care Planning Program 2024 Version2It is never too early to plan for the future!At NYU Langone Health, we are committed to delivering quality person centered care. This includes providing patients and families with opportunities to engage in meaningful conversations about their health. This way they can let us know the type of health care they would want in case an unexpected event or illness left them unable to communicate. Participating in these conversations and documenting their outcomes is a process. This process is known as advance care planning (ACP).Life can be unpredictable, so ACP is important for everyone. This is regardless of age or current health condition. It is why we designed this guide to help you start your own ACP. It includes insights and step by step instructions. It also has tips to help you create a plan that aligns with your values, goals, and beliefs. Where should I begin? Take it step by stepAdvance care planning is a process. There is no need to do it all at once. Take the time you need to think, talk, and figure out what works best for you.Step 1Consider your wishes for future care3Step 2Select a health care agent5Step 3Document your wishes for future care6Step 4Share your wishes for future care8This guide is to help you start your own advance care planning. It includes insights, step by step instructions, and tips to help you create a plan that aligns with your values, goals, and beliefs. We encourage you to use the space provided to write down your thoughts and share them with your agents, loved ones, and providers.3Step 1Consider your wishes for future careThis involves thinking about:• What an acceptable quality of life means to you•Understanding your health status•What potential complications may come up for youReflect on the questions and statements below as you consider your wishes:• What gives my life purpose and meaning? •What aspects of my physical and mental health are most important to me?•Do I have any religious, spiritual, cultural or traditional beliefs that impact the type of health care I receive?•When I think about the future, I want to avoid _________________.• What does a quality of life that is not acceptable look like to me?• I would want to be kept alive as long as I am able to ______________.• Under what conditions would I decide to change my treatment goals from prolonging my life to a focus on my comfort?You should also consider talking to your provider about the following:• Your current health status.• Any potential complications from your condition that could come up • What kinds of decisions you or your family might have to make in the futureReflecting on your values and beliefs:When your health care agent (refer to page 3 for definition) and loved ones know what matters most to you, they can be comfortable making health care decisions for you. These decisions can reflect who you are and what you care about. Answering the following questions can help you and your loved ones better understand what is important to you:What experience have you had with serious illness? Can you think of a family member or friend who became seriously ill or was injured (for example, in a car accident)? What did you learn from that experience?4What does living well mean to you? If you were having a good day, what would happen on that day? Who would you talk to? What would you do?What cultural, religious, spiritual, or personal beliefs (if any) do you have that might help you choose the care you want? Or not want?Think about a situation like this:A sudden event (such as a car accident, illness or complication from an existing medical condition) leaves you not able to communicate. You are getting all the care needed to keep you alive. The doctors believe there is little chance you will ever recover the ability to know who you are or who you are with. Would you want to continue medical treatment to keep you alive? Or, would you want to stop medical treatment to keep you alive? In either case, you will be kept comfortable. Please write down any additional instructions for your health care agent and care team: 5Step 2Select a health care agentA health care agent is an adult you appoint to make decisions for you in case you become unable to do so for yourself. A good health care agent is someone:• You trust and who knows you well• Is comfortable making decisions in a crisis• Will make decisions on your behalf, even if they do not agree with them• Can be easily reached by phone• Agrees to take on this roleReflect on the questions and statements below as you consider your wishes:• Do I know someone who could fulfill this role? • Am I ready to ask them to take on this role?You should also consider the following:• Many people choose 2 agents: a primary and an alternate • This person does not need to live near youAn important note:If you lose capacity to make your own medical decisions and do not have an advance directive, a surrogate decision maker will be chosen for you based on the surrogate list outlined in the Family Health Care Decisions Act, if one is available. Without the presence of a court appointed guardian, the surrogate list is as follows: • Spouse (if not legally separated) or domestic partner • Adult Child • Parent • Adult Sibling • Close Friend 6Step 3Document your wishes for future careAdvance care planning documents come in 2 categories: • Advance directives these express your medical wishes if you become unable to communicate them on your own• Medical orders these are signed by your provider and address a limited number of critical medical decisionsReview the descriptions below to see what documents are right for you.Advance DirectivesHealth Care Proxy Form The New York State health care proxy form allows you to appoint 1 or 2 health care agents. This person/these persons will make medical decisions for you if you become unable to do so. Your health care agent should be 18 years or older. The form can be witnessed by any adult other than the appointed health care agent(s). Living WillA living will is a written statement of your medical wishes. It is to be followed if you lose the ability to make your own decisions in the future. There is no standard living will form in New York State. However, the state recognizes any living will that provides clear and convincing evidence of your wishes. 7Medical OrdersMOLST FormIn New York State, the preferred medical order form is the Medical Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) form. This medical order form must be signed by a doctor or nurse practitioner (NP). These forms are honored by all New York State health care professionals, including emergency medical service technicians (EMTs) in any setting.The MOLST form addresses wishes for life sustaining treatment. The form is not for everyone. It is designed for people who reside in a long term care facility or receive long term care services at home. It is also designed for those who might die within the next year. If you think a MOLST form might be right for you, speak to your doctor or nurse practitioner.8Step 4Share your wishes for future careDiscussions about future care wishes with loved ones can be difficult. However, it is important to share your wishes with those closest to you. Below are some tips to help you do this:• Talk with your appointed health care agents about how you would want them to make decisions for you if you become unable.• Have conversations with any other friends or family who you feel should know your wishes.• Share your decisions with your providers.• Give copies of your advance directives and medical order forms to your health care agents and providers. You should also give copies to any other friends or family you feel should have them. Next Steps• Talk with your health care agent(s).• Meet with an Advance Care Planning facilitator.• Complete a health care proxy form.• Give copies of your health care proxy form to your health care agent(s) and health care professionals.•Talk to the rest of your family and loved ones. Tell them who your health care agent(s) is/are and what your wishes are.•If you have a serious illness, talk with your doctor about completing a MOLST.•Keep a copy of your Advance Directive, and MOLST (if you have one) handy for others to easily find.•Take a copy of your Advance Directive and/or MOLST with you if you go to a hospital or nursing home. Also ask for these to be put in your medical record.•Review your health care proxy form, and MOLST (if you have one) from time to time. Questions? Contact the NYU Langone Health Advance Care Planning Program at advancecareplanning@nyulangone.org or 212 263 0416.9Advance Care Planning, Advance Directives and Medical OrdersCommon QuestionsParticipating in advance care planning can bring up many questions. See below for answers to common questions.Does my health care agent need to live near me?No. However, they should be easy to reach by phone.What responsibilities does my health care agent have?Your agent will speak on your behalf if you become unable to do so. They are tasked with making the medical decisions you would make for yourself if you could.Who can witness a health care proxy? Anyone over the age of 18, other than your appointed agents.I’m healthy. Do I need an advance directive?Absolutely. Advance directives are important for all adults. They document our health care preferences in case of an unexpected illness or sudden event that leaves us unable to make our own decisions. Do I need a lawyer and notary to complete my advance directives? No. In New York State, the forms must be signed by the patient and have two witnesses over the age of 18 who are not the appointed agents. A notary is not needed.Can I document my wishes for organ donation?Yes. In New York any person 18 or older capable of making decisions may donate any or all parts of their body after death. They can donate to any hospital, surgeon, doctor, accredited medical school, storage facility, specific person or organization that assists with organ and tissue donation. You can indicate your wish to be an organ donor in the following ways:• State this on a health care proxy form• State this on a living will• Enroll in the New York State Organ and Tissue Donor Registry• Enroll at the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles• Enroll at the Board of Elections• You will be automatically enrolled if you check the organ donor box on your driver’s license. You will also be automatically enrolled if you check the organ donor box on a non driver identification card application or renewal form. 10What if I am not a New York State resident?Each state has its own laws when it comes to requirements for valid advance directives. States may honor each other’s documents but this is not a guarantee. It is recommended that you complete directives in your home and work state. You may also want to complete directives in any state where you spend much time.If my health care agent knows my wishes, do I really need a MOLST form too?If you have a wish to limit life sustaining treatment, then yes. Any limitations to treatment (for example, DNR) should be documented on a MOLST form. This is to ensure your wishes are honored outside of the hospital. What should I do with my advance directives once they are completed?It is vital to have your advance directive available in case of an emergency. For this reason, the following people and places should have a copy:• Each of your appointed health care agent(s)• Your providers• Hospital(s) most likely to treat you• A safe and handy place in your home where those closest to you can locate itDo advance directives expire?While advance directives do not expire (unless you designated an expiration date specifically), it is recommended that you review them whenever one of the 5 Ds happen:• Death of a loved one• Divorce or separation• Decade or other milestone birthday• Diagnosis of a significant illness or injury• Decline in your health statusCan I cancel a health care proxy form?You can change or cancel your advance directives at any time.Can I appoint someone to be responsible for the disposition of my remains? Yes. You can appoint an agent by completing the Appointment of Agent to Control Disposition of Remains form.11What is CPR?CPR is Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation. It is used if your heart or breathing stops. CPR may include one or all of the following:• Chest compressions• Defibrillation• Intubation• Medications to restart your heartWhat is DNR?DNR stands for Do Not Resuscitate. A DNR order is placed when a person decides that they would not want an attempt at resuscitation if their heart or breathing stops.Why might someone choose to be DNR? These are personal decisions. Some people feel that that the likelihood of returning to an acceptable quality of life after receiving CPR is too low for it to be worth it for them. This in an important topic to discuss with your provider.What is intubation?Intubation is a procedure that can be used for patients in respiratory distress and is also part of CPR. A flexible plastic tube is put through your mouth and into your airway. The tube keeps the airway open so air can get to the lungs. The tube is connected to a ventilator. How do I cancel a DNR?You can cancel a DNR order at any time in any way that makes your wish known. It is recommended to speak to your provider to do so.What is Palliative Care?Palliative Care is specialized care for people with serious illness. It is an approach where different disciplines focus on pain and symptom management. The goal is to maximize quality of life.What is hospice care?Hospice care may be right for patients who have are expected to live 6 months or less. It provides care focused on comfort and managing any type of distress. This includes easing pain and other physical symptoms and emotional or existential distress. Hospice care can be provided in different settings:• at home• in nursing homes• in assisted living facilities• in hospice centersContent adapted from Your Conversation Starter GuideThe Conversation Project (theconversationproject.org): An initiative of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI; ihi.org)Licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 4.0 International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by sa/4.0/


CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E APPENDIX E: PATIENT PRIVACY AND RIGHTS UNDER THE IRF PPS This chapter includes the following documents: • Privacy Act Statement (English) • Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (English) • Privacy Act Statement (Spanish) • Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (Spanish) IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 1 rn Replry Refer To: HDA~A CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 2 PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT HEALTH CARE RECORDS This statement gives you notice of a data collection as required by law (section 552a(e)(3) of the Privacy Act of 1974). This statement is not a consent form. It will not be used to release or to use your health care information. I. The authority for this data collection is given under section 1886(j)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act, which authorizes the Secretary to collect the data necessary to establish and administer the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility (IRF) Prospective Payment System (PPS). Medicare participating Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities (IRF) must do a complete assessment that accurately reflects your current clinical status and includes information that can be used to show your progress toward your rehabilitation goals. The IRF must use the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Patient Assessment Instrument (IRF PAI) as part of that assessment, when evaluating your clinical status. The IRF PAI must be used to assess every Medicare Part A (Fee for Service) and Part C (Medicare Advantage) inpatient, and it may be used to assess other types of inpatients. The information that is collected on the IRF PAI is submitted to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which uses the information to be sure that the IRF is paid appropriately for the services that they furnish you, and to help evaluate whether the IRF meets quality standards and gives appropriate health care to its patients. CMS safeguards the IRF PAI data in a data system. The system limits data access to authorized users and monitors such users to ensure against unauthorized data access or disclosures. This system conforms to all applicable Federal laws and regulations as well as Federal government, Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), and CMS policies and standards as they relate to information security and data privacy. The applicable laws and regulations include, but are not limited to: the Privacy Act of 1974; the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002; the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; the E Government Act of 2002; the Clinger Cohen Act of 1996; the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003; and the corresponding implementing regulations. While you have the right to refuse to provide information to the IRF for the assessment, this information is very important in ensuring that the IRF is paid appropriately for the services it provides, meets quality standards, and furnishes appropriate health care to its patients. We hope that you will cooperate with your IRF in gathering the necessary data. As explained below, any information that you provide to the federal government through this assessment will be protected under the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 in accordance with the IRF PAI System of Records Notice. Furthermore, you will always have the right to see, copy, review, and request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information in the IRF PAI System of Records. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 3 II. PRINCIPAL PURPOSE FOR WHICH YOUR INFORMATION IS INTENDED TO BE USED The information collected will be entered into the IRF PAI System of Records No. 09 70 0521. The information will primarily be used to support payments for Fee for Service care provided to Medicare Part A beneficiaries by IRFs under the IRF PPS. This information may also be used or disclosed for additional purposes that are related to the principal purpose for which the data was collected. These additional uses are called “routine uses,” which are discussed in detail below. III. ROUTINE USES The following “routine uses” specify the circumstances when CMS may release your information from the IRF PAI System of Records without your consent. Prior to receiving data under one of these routine uses, each prospective recipient must agree in writing to ensure the continuing confidentiality and security of your information. Furthermore, disclosures of protected health information authorized by these routine uses may be made only if, and as, permitted or required by the ‘Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information.’ (45 CFR Parts 160 and 164, which are commonly referred to as the “HIPAA Privacy Rule.”) The routine uses are: 1. To support agency contractors, consultants, or grantees who have been engaged by the agency to assist in the performance of a service related to this System of Records and who need to have access to the records in order to perform the activity. 2. To support Quality Improvement Organizations (QIO) in connection with review of claims, or in connection with studies or other review activities conducted pursuant to part B of Title XI of the Act, and in performing affirmative outreach activities to individuals for the purpose of establishing and maintaining their entitlement to Medicare benefits or health insurance plans. 3. To assist another Federal and/or state agency, agency of a state government, agency established by state law, or its fiscal agent to: a. Contribute to the accuracy of CMS’s proper payment of Medicare benefits; b. Enable such agency or agent to administer a Federal health benefits program, or as necessary to enable such agency or agent to fulfill a requirement of a Federal statute or regulation that implements a health benefits program funded in whole or in part with Federal funds; or c. To improve the state survey process for investigation of complains related to health and safety or quality of care and to implement a more outcome oriented survey and certification program. 4. To an individual or organization for a research, evaluation, or epidemiological projects related to the prevention of disease or disability, the restoration or maintenance of health, or for understanding and improving payment projects. 5. To support the Department of Justice (DOJ), a court or an adjudicatory body when: a. The agency or any component thereof; b. Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 4 c. Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the DOJ has agreed to represent the employee; or d. The United States Government is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and by careful review, CMS determines that the records are both relevant and necessary to the litigation and the use of such records by the DOJ, court or adjudicatory body is compatible with the purpose for which the agency collected the records. 6. To a CMS contractor (including, but not necessarily limited to fiscal intermediaries, carriers and Medicare Administrative Contractors (MAC)) that assists in the administration of a CMS administered health benefits program, or to a grantee of a CMS administered grant program, when disclosure is deemed reasonably necessary by CMS to prevent, deter, discover, detect, investigate, examine, prosecute, sue with respect to, defend against, correct, remedy, or otherwise combat fraud or abuse in such program. 7. To assist another Federal agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States (including any State or local governmental agency), that administers, or that has the authority to investigate potential fraud or abuse in whole or part by Federal funds, when disclosure is deemed reasonable necessary by CMS to prevent, deter, discover, detect, investigate, examine, prosecute, sue with respect to, defend against, correct, remedy, or otherwise combat frauds or abuse in such programs. 8. To assist a national accrediting organization that has been approved for deeming authority for Medicare requirements for inpatient rehabilitation services (e.g., the Joint Commission for the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, the American Osteopathic Association and the Commission of Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities). Data will be released to these organizations only for those facilities that participate in Medicare by virtue of their accreditation status, and even then, only if they meet the following requirements: a. Provide identifying information for IRFs that have an accreditation status with the requesting deemed organization; b. Submission of a finder file identifying beneficiaries/patients receiving IRF services; c. Safeguard the confidentiality of the data and prevent unauthorized access; and d. Upon completion of a signed data exchange agreement or a CMS data use agreement. 9. To assist insurance companies, third party administrators (TPA), employers, self insurers, manage care organizations, other supplemental insurers, non coordinating insurers, multiple employer trusts, group health plans (i.e., health maintenance organizations (HMO) or a competitive medical plan (CMP)) with a Medicare contract, or a Medicare approved health care prepayment plan (HCPP), directly or through a contractor, and other groups providing protection for their enrollees. Information to be disclosed shall be limited to Medicare entitlement data. In order to receive the information, they must agree to: a. Certify that the individual about whom the information is being provided is one of its insured or employees, or is insured and/or employed by another entity for whom they serve as a third party administrator; b. Utilize the information solely for the purpose of processing the individual’s insurance claims; and CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 5 c. Safeguard the confidentiality of the data and prevent unauthorized access. 10. To appropriate Federal agencies, Department officials and contractors, as well as CMS contractors, to respond to a suspected or confirmed breach of the security or confidentiality of the information maintained in this System of Records. IV. EFFECT ON YOU IF YOU DO NOT PROVIDE INFORMATION The IRF needs the information contained in the IRF PAI in order to comply with the Medicare regulations. Your IRF will also use the IRF PAI to assist in providing you with quality care. It is important that the information be correct. Incorrect information could result in payment errors. Incorrect information also could make it difficult to evaluate if the facility is giving you quality services. While this information is important, there is no federal law basis for your IRF refusing you services if you refuse to provide the requested information. CONTACT INFORMATION If you want to ask the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to see, review, copy or request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information, which that Federal agency maintains in its IRF PAI System of Records: Call 1 800 MEDICARE, toll free, for assistance in contacting the IRF PAI System of Records Manager. TTY for the hearing and speech impaired: 1 800 820 1202 CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 6 Data Collection Information Summary for Patients in Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities This notice is a simplified plain language summary of the information contained in the attached “Privacy Act Statement Health Care Records” As a hospital rehabilitation inpatient, you have the privacy rights listed below. • You have the right to know why we need to ask you questions. We are required by federal law to collect health information to make sure: 1) You get quality health care, and 2) Payment for Medicare patients is correct. • You have the right to have your personal health care information kept confidential and secure. You will be asked to tell us information about yourself so that we can provide the most appropriate, comprehensive services for you. We keep anything we learn about you confidential and secure. This means only those who are legally permitted to use or obtain the information collected during this assessment will see it. • You have the right to refuse to answer questions. You do not have to answer any questions to get services. • You have the right to look at your personal health information. We know how important it is that the information we collect about you is correct. You may ask to review the information you provided. If you think we made a mistake, you can ask us to correct it. CONTACT INFORMATION If you want to ask the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to see, review, copy or request correction of inaccurate or missing personal health information which that Federal agency maintains in its IRF PAI System of Records: Call 1 800 MEDICARE, toll free, for assistance in contacting the IRF PAI System of Records Manager. TTY for the hearing and speech impaired: 1 800 820 1202 Note: The rights listed above are in concert with the rights listed in the hospital conditions of participation and the rights established under the Federal Privacy Rule. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 7 DECLARACIÓN DE LA LEY DE PRIVACIDAD EXPEDIENTES MÉDICOS Esta declaración es una notificación sobre la recolección de información requerida por la sección 552a(e)(3) de la Ley de Privacidad de 1974. Esta declaración no es una autorización. No se utilizará para divulgar o para usar su información médica. I. La sección 1886(j)(2)(D) de la Ley del Seguro Social autoriza a la Secretaría a recopilar la información necesaria para establecer y administrar el Sistema de Pago (PPS en inglés) de los Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos (IRF en inglés). Los centros de rehabilitación para pacientes internos que participan en Medicare deben hacer una evaluación completa que refleje con precisión su condición clínica actual e incluir información que pueda usarse para demostrar su progreso hacia las metas de rehabilitación. El centro de rehabilitación para pacientes internos debe usar el Instrumento de Evaluación del Paciente en Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos (IRF PAI en inglés), cuando se evalúa su condición clínica. El IRF PAI debe usarse para evaluar a cada paciente internado bajo la Parte A (pago por servicio), la Parte C (Medicare Advantage) y podría usarse para evaluar a otros tipos de pacientes internados. Esta información se presentará a los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid (CMS en inglés) para garantizar que se les pague correctamente a los IRF por los servicios que le proveyeron y para ayudar a determinar si los centros cumplen los estándares de calidad y ofrecen a sus pacientes el cuidado apropiado. CMS guardará los datos de IRF PAI en el sistema de expedientes. El sistema limita el acceso a las personas autorizadas y controladores que vigilan el uso no autorizado de la información o la divulgación de la misma. El sistema se ajusta a las leyes federales aplicables y reglamentaciones, así como a las disposiciones y estándares del gobierno federal, del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (HHS) y de CMS relacionadas con la seguridad y confidencialidad de la información. Las leyes y reglamentaciones aplicables incluyen, pero no se limitan a: la Ley de Privacidad de 1974; La Ley Federal de Control de la Seguridad de la Información de 2002; la Ley de Fraude y Abuso por Computadora de 1986; de la Ley de Transferencia y Responsabilidad del Seguro Médico de 1996; la Ley de Servicios Gubernamentales Electrónicos (E Government) de 2002; la Ley Clinger Cohen de 1996; la Ley de Modernización de Medicare de 2003; y las reglamentaciones para aplicarlas. Si lo desea, usted puede negarse a proveerle al IRF la información para la evaluación. Sin embargo, la misma es importante para garantizar que los IRF reciban el pago correcto por los servicios que le brindaron, que cumplan con los estándares de calidad y le brinden la atención médica que usted necesita. Esperamos que coopere con el IRF brindándole la información solicitada. Tal y como lo explicamos abajo, cualquier información que le provea al gobierno federal a través de esta evaluación, estará protegida por la Ley de Privacidad de 1974 según lo indicado por el Aviso del Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. Además, usted tiene el derecho de ver, copiar, revisar y solicitar la corrección de su información médica personal incorrecta o incompleta en el Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 8 II. PROPÓSITO PRINCIPAL PARA EL CUAL SE USARÁ SU INFORMACIÓN La información recopilada se entrará en el Sistema IRF PAI Número 09 70 0521. La información se usará principalmente para respaldar el sistema de pagos IRF PPS por los servicio de la Parte A de Medicare brindados por el IRF a los beneficiarios de Medicare. La información también puede usarse o divulgarse para otros asuntos relacionados con el propósito principal para el cual se solicitó la información. A estos usos adicionales se les conoce como “usos de rutina” y se los analizará en detalle a continuación. III. USOS DE RUTINA Estos “usos de rutina” especifican las circunstancias en las que los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid podrían divulgar su información del Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI sin su consentimiento. Antes de recibir su información para estos “usos de rutina”, cada destinatario potencial debe garantizar por escrito la continuación de la confidencialidad y la seguridad de su información. La divulgación de la información de salud protegida autorizada para estos usos de rutina podrían hacerse sólo si, y como lo permitan o lo requieran los ‘Estándares de Privacidad para la Información de Salud Identificable Individualmente’ (45CFR Partes 160 y 164 a la que se le conoce como “Norma de Privacidad de HIPAA”). La divulgación de la información podría ser para: 1. Brindar apoyo a los contratistas, consultores o donatarios utilizados por la agencia para proveer algún servicio relacionado con el Sistema de Expedientes y que para realizar dicha actividad, deben tener acceso a la información. 2. Para ayudar a las Organizaciones para Mejoras de la Calidad (QIO en inglés) en la revisión de las reclamaciones, o actividades relacionadas con estudios u otras revisiones de la Parte B, estipuladas en el Título XI de la Ley, y actividades para establecer y mantener la elegibilidad de las personas para los beneficios de Medicare o de los planes médicos. 3. Para asistir a otra agencia federal y/o estatal, una agencia de un gobierno estatal, una agencia establecida por una ley estatal o su agente fiscal a: a. Contribuir al pago correcto de CMS de los beneficios de Medicare; b. Permitir que dicha agencia o agente administre el programa federal de beneficios de salud o, cuando sea necesario, para permitir que esta agencia cumpla con un requisito de un estatuto o reglamentación federal que implementa un programa de beneficios de salud subvencionado en forma parcial o total con fondos federales, o c. Mejorar el proceso de encuesta estatal para la investigación de quejas relacionadas con la salud, seguridad o calidad de los servicios y para implementar una encuesta de opinión orientada a los resultados y un programa de certificación. 4. A una persona u organización para una investigación, evaluación o proyectos epidemiológicos relacionados a la prevención de enfermedades o discapacidades, el restablecimiento o el mantenimiento de la salud o para comprender y mejorar los proyectos de pagos. 5. Para apoyar al Departamento de Justicia (DOJ en inglés), tribunal o cuerpo judicial cuando: CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 9 a. La agencia o cualquiera de sus componentes; o b. Cualquier empleado de la agencia en su capacidad oficial; o c. Cualquier empleado de la agencia en su capacidad individual donde el empleado sea representado por DOJ; o d. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos; es una de las partes del litigio o tiene un interés en este litigio y mediante una revisión cuidadosa, CMS determina que los expedientes son relevantes y necesarios al litigio y el uso de estos expedientes por el DOJ, el tribunal o el cuerpo judicial es compatible con el propósito para el cual la agencia recopiló los expedientes. 6. Para ayudar a un contratista de CMS (incluyendo, pero no necesariamente limitado a los intermediarios fiscales y agencias de seguros) que asiste en la administración de un programa de beneficios de salud administrado por CMS o a un beneficiario o a un programa de beneficiarios administrado por CMS, cuando la divulgación se considera razonablemente necesaria por CMS para prevenir, impedir, descubrir, detectar, investigar, examinar, enjuiciar, demandar con respecto a, defender contra, corregir, remediar, o combatir el fraude y el abuso en estos programas. 7. Apoyar a otra agencia federal o a una agencia de cualquier jurisdicción gubernamental dentro o bajo el control de los Estados Unidos (entre ellas, cualquier agencia gubernamental estatal o local) que administre, o que tenga la autoridad para investigar el posible fraude o abuso total o parcial a los fondos federales, cuando la divulgación se considera razonablemente necesaria por CMS para prevenir, impedir, descubrir, detectar, investigar, examinar, enjuiciar, demandar con respecto a, defender contra, corregir, remediar, o combatir el fraude y el abuso en estos programas. 8. Asistir a una organización nacional acreditada que ha sido aprobada como la autoridad para considerar los requisitos de Medicare para servicios de rehabilitación para pacientes internos (éstas son, la Comisión Conjunta para la Acreditación de Organizaciones al Cuidado de la Salud, la Asociación Americana de Osteopatía y la Comisión para la Acreditación de Instalaciones de Rehabilitación). La información se divulgará a estas organizaciones sólo para aquellos centros que participen en Medicare por estar acreditados y aún así, solamente si cumplen los requisitos siguientes: a. Proporcionen información identificable para los IRF acreditados por la organización que lo requiera. b. Presenten un expediente que identifique a los pacientes/beneficiarios que reciban servicios de IRF; c. Protejan la confidencialidad de la información y eviten el acceso no autorizado; y d. Hayan firmado un acuerdo de intercambio o acuerdo de utilización de la información de CMS. 9. Para ayudar a las compañías de seguros, administradores de terceros (TPA en inglés), empleadores, compañías de seguros por cuenta propia, compañías de seguros no coordinadoras, fideicomisos de empleadores múltiples, planes de salud grupales (por ejemplo, Organizaciones para el Mantenimiento de la Salud (HMO en inglés) o un Plan Médico Competitivo (CMP en inglés) que tenga un contrato con Medicare, o un plan médico prepagado aprobado por Medicare (HCPP en inglés), directamente o a través de un contratista, y otros grupos que proveen protección a los miembros del plan. La CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 10 información divulgada se limita exclusivamente a aquella autorizada por Medicare. Para recibirla, deben: a. Certificar que la persona sobre la cual se provee información es uno de sus asegurados o empleados, y que está asegurada y/o empleada por otra entidad para la cual ellos rinden servicio como un administrador de terceros; b. Utilizar la información sólo para propósitos de procesar las reclamaciones de seguros del individuo; y c. Proteger la confidencialidad de la información y prevenir el acceso no autorizado. 10. A las agencias federales apropiadas, funcionarios de Ministerios y sus contratistas y a los contratistas de CMS para responder a la sospecha o confirmación de una violación a la seguridad o confidencialidad de la información del Sistema de Expedientes. IV. LAS CONSECUENCIAS SI DECIDE NO PROVEER LA INFORMACIÓN El IRF necesita la información del Sistema IRF PAI para cumplir las normas de Medicare. Su centro para la rehabilitación para pacientes internos también usará el IRF PAI para brindarle cuidado de calidad. Es importante que la información esté correcta para evitar errores en los pagos. La información incorrecta también podría hacer más difícil la evaluación de la calidad de los servicios provistos por el centro. Si bien esta información es importante, no hay una ley federal en la que pueda ampararse su IRF para negarle servicios si usted decide no proporcionar la información solicitada. INFORMACIÓN DE CONTACTO Si desea que CMS vea, revise, copie o corrija la información incorrecta o incompleta sobre su salud que consta en el Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI: Llame gratis al 1 800 MEDICARE si necesita ayuda para comunicarse con el Gerente de Sistema de Expedientes IRF PAI. Los usuarios de TTY deben llamar al 1 800 820 1202. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 11 Resumen de Información de Recopilación de Datos para Pacientes en Centros de Rehabilitación para Pacientes Internos Este aviso es un resumen en lenguaje simplificado de la información que aparece en el documento adjunto “Declaración de la Ley de Privacidad Informes de Cuidado de la Salud” Como paciente interno de rehabilitación en un hospital, usted tienen los siguientes derechos de privacidad: • Usted tiene el derecho de saber por qué necesitamos hacer preguntas. Se nos requiere por ley federal recopilar información de salud para asegurarnos que: 1) usted obtiene cuidado de salud de calidad, y 2) el pago para los pacientes de Medicare esté correcto. • Usted tiene el derecho de mantener la información del cuidado personal de su salud en confidencialidad y seguridad. Le pediremos información sobre usted para poder proveerle los servicios apropiados y completos. Mantendremos la información que nos brinda en confidencialidad y seguridad. Esto significa que sólo podrán verla aquellos que tienen permiso legal para usar u obtener la información recopilada durante esta evaluación. • Usted tiene el derecho de negarse a responder a las preguntas. Usted no tiene que responder a ninguna pregunta para obtener servicios. • Usted tiene el derecho de ver su información de salud personal. Sabemos cuán importante es que la información que recopilemos sobre usted esté correcta. Podría pedir revisar la información que usted proveyó. Si considera que hemos cometido un error, puede pedirnos una corrección. Además, podría pedir a los Centros de Servicios de Medicare y Medicaid ver, revisar, copiar o solicitar correciones de información de salud personal perdida o incorrecta que esta agencia federal mantiene en su Sistema de Informes IRF PAI. Para INFORMACIÓN DE CONTACTO o una descripción detallada de sus derechos de privacidad, refiérase a la DECLARACIÓN DE LA LEY DE PRIVACIDAD INFORMES DE CUIDADO DE LA SALUD adjuntos. Nota: Los derechos en la lista anterior están de acuerdo con los derechos en la lista de las condiciones de participación del hospital y los derechos establecidos según la Norma Federal de Privacidad. CMS IRF PAI Manual Appendix E This is a Medicare & Medicaid Approved Notice. IRF PAI Version 4.0, Effective October 1, 2022 Page E 12


UPDATE ON M. ABSCESSUS AND NEW THERAPIES FOR NTM Doreen J. Addrizzo Harris, MD, FCCPProfessor of MedicineCo Director, NYU Bronchiectasis ProgramAssociate Director, Clinical and Academic AffairsDivision of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep MedicineFinancial Disclosures• PI for clinical trials with Insmed/Zambone/Hill Rom (all bronchiectasis/NTM related)Case • 59 y/o F without significant PMH• Recurrent respiratory infections over 3 years;• CXR revealed mild increase in airways disease; • CT finally performed after 3 years of coughCT Chest from 2016Case • M. Abscessus subspecies abscessus• Recurrent courses of combination of oral antibiotics with IV therapy for weeks to months• IV tigecycline and IV amikacin with clofazimine and tedizolid for 3 months• Then on oral therapy bedaquiline, clofazimine and inhaled amikacin• And back on IV and then oral and back and forth…...............Mycobacterium abscessusIsolated in 1950 from synovial fluid and buttock lesions in a 63 year old womanMoore M et al. J Invest Derm. 1953;20:133•Mycobacterium abscessus was first identified in a patient with a knee infection and SQ abscesses•M. abscessus is the 2nd 3rd most common cause of lung disease due to NTM and the most common cause of lung disease due to a rapid grower•The organism is highly resistant to antibiotics with current in vitro methodsM. abscessus group 3 subspecies•Tigecycline IV•Amikacin IV•Cefoxitin IV•Imipenem IV•Moxifloxacin PO or IV•Along with oral options• Clofazimine• Oxazolidinones Current Common Options for TreatmentMycobacterium abscessus• In patients with m.abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains without inducible or mutational resistance, we recommend a macrolide containing multidrug treatment regimen (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect). • In patients with m.abscessus pulmonary disease caused by strains with inducible or mutational macrolide resistance, we suggest a macrolide containing regimen if the drug is being used for its immunomodulatoryproperties although the macrolide is not counted as an active drug in the multidrug regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).• In selected patients with NTM pulmonary disease, we suggest surgical resection as an adjuvant to medical therapy after expert consultation (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesTreatment of M. abscessusM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesTreatment of M. abscessusMacrolide?≥2 other drugs Amikacin2 +mosMacrolide?≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacinM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense“Functional” erm41 geneNoYesMacrolide?≥2 other drugs AmikacinMacrolide≥1 other drug AmikacinImipenem (IV) Cefoxitin (IV) Tigecycline (IV) Linezolid Clofazimine MoxifloxacinBedaquilineAvibactam/ceftaz (IV)OmadacyclineMacrolide?≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacinMacrolide≥1 other drugInhaledAmikacinTreatment of M. abscessus(Duration 12 months culture negativity)2+ mos2+ mosM. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense• Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients With Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST2015; 148(2):499 506• A case series of off label use of bedaquiline caused by MAC or Mab.• 10 patients were reviewed ( 6 MAC, 4 Mab)• Patients had refractory disease and were treated for 1 8 years prior to starting bedaquiline• had macrolide resistant isolates• Dose was 400mg daily with food for 2 weeks followed by 200mg TIW.• All patients completed 6 months of therapy with bedaquiline and remain on therapy.• Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients With Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST 2015; 148(2):499 506• After 6 months of therapy, ( 6/10) had a microbiologic response with (5/10) having one or more negative cultures.• Side effects Nausea () Arthralgias () Anorexia and subjective fever ()• No abnormal ECG changes were observed.• A small preliminary study that highlights the potential clinical and microbiologic activity of bedaquiline in patients with advance MAC/Mab.• A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination regimen might add activity to the treatment of clinically relevant non tuberculousmycobacteriaRuth M, J Antimicrob Chemother 2019; Ijakko van Ingen• In TK assays, bedaquiline showed a bacteriostatic effect. Clofazimineextended the bacteriostatic activity of bedaquiline against MAB and yielded a slight bactericidal effect against M. avium.• A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination might add activity to MAB and MAC treatment. The bedaquiline/clarithromycin combination might have lower activity compared with bedaquiline alone for MAC treatment.Emerging Pharmacologic Therapies BedaquilineA New Approach Avibactam with Carbapenems??• Combination of avibactam and carbapenems exhibit enhanced potencies against drug resistant Mycobacterium abscessus. Kaushik, A et al Future Microbiol 2017 28 resistant isolates of M abscessus• Avibactam was able to restore the MICs of tebipenem, ertapenem, and panipenem against M abscessus to therapeutically achievable concentrations• New Tetracycline Analogs• Omadacycline (oral) / Eravacycline (IV)• In vitro data against drug resistant M. Abscessus• Promising alternative to IV Tigecycline• Favorable MICs• Lower toxicityEmerging Pharmacologic Therapies tetracycline analogsBax H, et al. J Antimicrob Chemother 2019 (Netherlands) Kaushi, A, et al Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 2019 (Hopkins)Surgery • Indications for surgery: medication unresponsive (drug resistant; large cavities); hemoptysis; uncontrolled symptoms; ? Debulking of disease (Robotic Surgery in NTM: Abstract in preparation on NYU experience)• Safety Mitchell, J Ann Thorac Surg 2008; Eur Journ CV surg 2011• Microbiologic efficacy Griffith AJRCCM 2006; Nelson Ann Thor Surg 1998; Griffith AJRCCM 1993 M abscessus disease treatment success• Jeon 2009 (med) vs (med + surg)• Jarand 2011 (med) vs (med +surg)Possible Future Treatments New antimicrobial formulations•Oral amikacin•Inhaled clofazimine Non antimicrobial drugs•Inhaled GS CMF•Inhaled nitric oxide Other•BacteriophageTHANK YOU!Section Chiefs MeetingOctober 23, 2017Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine


Many adults have been living with Adult Attention Deﬁcit/Hyperactivity Disorder(Adult ADHD) and don’t recognize it.Why? Because its symptoms are often mistakenfor a stressful life. If you’ve felt this type of frustration most of your life, you may haveAdult ADHD a condition your doctor can help diagnose and treat.The following questionnaire can be used as a starting point to help you recognize thesigns/symptoms of Adult ADHD but is not meant to replace consultation with atrained healthcare professional. An accurate diagnosis can only be madethrough a clinical evaluation. Regardless of the questionnaire results, if you haveconcerns about diagnosis and treatment of Adult ADHD, please discuss your concernswith your physician.Are you living with Adult ADHD?The questions below can help you ﬁnd out.The 6 question Adult Self Report Scale Version1.1 (ASRS V1.1) Screener is a subset of the 18 question Adult ADHD Self Report Scale Version1.1 (Adult ASRS V1.1) Symptom Checklist. For more information about the Symptoms Checklist, visit: https://license.tov.med.nyu.edu/product/asrs v11 18 question symptom checklist .ASRS V1.1 Screener, © 2023, New York University and President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved.NeverRarelySometimesOftenVery OftenDateAdd the number of checkmarks that appear in the darkly shaded area. Four (4) or more checkmarksindicate that your symptoms may be consistent with Adult ADHD. It may be beneﬁcial for you to talk withyour healthcare provider about an evaluation.Check the box that best describes how you have felt and conducted yourself overthe past 6 months. Please give the completed questionnaire to your healthcareprofessional during your next appointment to discuss the results.1. How often do you have trouble wrapping up the ﬁnal details of a project,once the challenging parts have been done?2. How often do you have difﬁculty getting things in order when you haveto do a task that requires organization?3. How often do you have problems remembering appointments orobligations?4.When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do youavoid or delay getting started?5. How often do you ﬁdget or squirm with your hands or feet when youhave to sit down for a long time?6. How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like youwere driven by a motor?This Adult Self Report Scale V1.1 (ASRS V1.1) Screener is intended for people aged 18 years or older.Adult Self Report Scale V1.1 (ASRS V1.1) Screener© New York University and President and Fellows of Harvard College


Payor NamePlan NamePayor NamePlan NameAetnaAetna HMOBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Mediblue Select HMO/Extra HMOAetnaAetna IndemnityBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS POSAetnaAetna InternationalBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS PPOAetnaAetna Medicare Managed CareBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS PPO Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees)AetnaAetna Meritain HealthBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees)AetnaAetna Open Access EPOBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS PPO/EPO Small GroupAetnaAetna Open Access HMOBlue Cross Blue ShieldNew York Hotel TradesAetnaAetna POSCenterlight HealthcareCenterLight Healthcare DIRECTAetnaAetna POS (American Express Employer)Centerlight HealthcareCenterLight Healthcare PACEAetnaAetna PPOCenterlight HealthcareCenterLight Healthcare SelectAetnaAetna Signature Administrators PPOCenterlight HealthcareCenterlight Pace Medicare HMOAetnaAetna Student PlanCenters Plan For Healthy LivingCenters Plan For Healthy LivingAetnaAlliedCignaApwu Health PlanAetnaChesterfield Resources IncCignaCigna Great West PPOAetnaChristian Brothers ServicesCignaCigna HMOAetnaCoreSourceCignaCigna IndemnityAetnaHealthscopeCignaCigna Managed Care/POSAetnaNippon Life of America?AetnaCignaCigna NALCAetnaNippon Life?AetnaCignaCigna Open AccessAetnaStarmarkCignaCigna Open Access PPOAetnaWellNetCignaCigna PPOAgewellAgewell Managed MedicaidCignaCigna Premier PlusAgewellAgewell MedicareCignaGreat West HMOAmida CareAmida Care MedicaidCignaMVP Cigna NetworkBlue Cross Blue ShieldNYC Retiree Medicare AdvantageCignaWellfleet NYU StudentBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Blue Access EPO Large GroupConnecticareConnecticare BridgeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Blue Access EPO Large Group (NYU LI Local 1199)ConnecticareConnecticare CommercialBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Blue Access EPO Small GroupElderplanElderplanBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Blue Access GEPO Small GroupElderplanElderplan FIDABlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Blue Access PPO Large GroupEmblemEmblem Select Care Basic ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS EPOEmblemEmblem Select Care Bronze ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS EPO NYU CARE/Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees)EmblemEmblem Select Care Bronze Small GroupBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS EPO Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees)EmblemEmblem Select Care Catastropic ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS EPO Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees)EmblemEmblem Select Care EPOBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees)EmblemEmblem Select Care Gold ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Federal ProgramEmblemEmblem Select Care Gold Small GroupBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Blue Care HMOEmblemEmblem Select Care HMOBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Blue Medicare PPOEmblemEmblem Select Care Platinum ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Blue Options PPOEmblemEmblem Select Care Platinum Small GroupBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Blue SelectEmblemEmblem Select Care PPOBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida MyBlue HMOEmblemEmblem Select Care Silver ExchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Simply BlueEmblemEmblem Select Care Silver Small GroupBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Florida Traditional PPCEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 1Blue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS HMOEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 2Blue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS IndemnityEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 3Blue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Local 32BJ EmployeesEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Essential Plan 4Blue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Mediblue Medicare HMOEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Gatekeeper exchangeBlue Cross Blue ShieldBCBS Mediblue Medicare PPOEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Mediblue AdvantagePage 1 of 3Updated January 2022Accepted Insurance Plans by Employed Anesthesiology, Pathology, Radiology and Emergency Medicine ProvidersThis is a list of insurance plans accepted by most providers, including anesthesiologists, pathologists, and radiologists, employed by NYU Langone.Payor NamePlan NamePayor NamePlan NameEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus NY Child Health Plus NYHealthfirstHealthfirst MedicareEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus NY Medicaid Managed Care NYHealthfirstHealthfirst Medicare/NYU RiskEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS Essential Plan 1HealthfirstHealthfirst Personal Wellness PlanEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS Essential Plan 2HealthfirstHealthfirst Platinum Leaf ExchangeEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS Essential Plan 3HealthfirstHealthfirst Platinum Total, Pro, Plus EPOEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS Essential Plan 4HealthfirstHealthfirst Senior Health PartnersEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS NY Child Health PlanHealthfirstHealthfirst Silver Leaf ExchangeEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS NY MedicaidHealthfirstHealthfirst Silver Total, Pro, Plus EPOEmpire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus SOMOS Special Needs HARPHIPEmblem Essential Plan 1Empire BCBS Health PlusBCBS Healthplus Special NeedsHIPEmblem Essential Plan 2Fidelis CareFidelis Care Bronze ExchangeHIPEmblem Essential Plan 3Fidelis CareFidelis Care Catastrophic Cvg ExchangeHIPEmblem Essential Plan 4Fidelis CareFidelis Care Child Health PlusHIPHIP Access IFidelis CareFidelis Care Gold ExchangeHIPHIP Access IIFidelis CareFidelis Care Medicaid Managed CareHIPHIP BridgeFidelis CareFidelis Care MedicareHIPHIP Child Health PlusFidelis CareFidelis Care Native American ExchangeHIPHIP EPOFidelis CareFidelis Care Platinum ExchangeHIPHIP HMOFidelis CareFidelis Care Silver ExchangeHIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced Child Health Plus (SOMOS)Fidelis CareFidelis Essential Plan 1HIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced NY MCD (SOMOS)Fidelis CareFidelis Essential Plan 2HIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced SNP Harp (SOMOS)Fidelis CareFidelis Essential Plan 3HIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced CareFidelis CareFidelis Essential Plan 4HIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced Essential 1 (SOMOS)First HealthFirst Health PPOHIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced Essential 2 (SOMOS)GHIAmerican Plan AdministratorsHIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced Essential 3 (SOMOS)GHIGHI CBP (City of New York Employees)HIPHIP Medicaid Enhanced Essential 4 (SOMOS)GHIGHI Emblem Health EPOHIPHIP POSGHIGHI Emblem Health PPOHIPHIP PPOGHIGHI HMOHIPHIP Prime BronzeGHIGHI HMO MedicareHIPHIP Prime GoldGHIGHI Medicare PPOHIPHIP Prime PlatinumGHIGHI Medicare SupplementHIPHIP Prime SilverGHIGHI Network Access Benefit Services of PAHIPHIP VIP Medicare BoldGHIGHI Network Access Total Plan ConceptsHIPHIP VIP Medicare PrimeGHIIUOE Local 14 14BHIPVytra HMOGHIWlny TV Inc.HumanaHumana Medicare AdvantageHamaspik ChoiceHamaspik Choice Medicare DSNPIndependence Care SystemIndependence Care SystemHealth SmartWTC Health Program HHCLocal 1199Local 1199 NYU Hospital Member ChoiceHealthfirstHealth And Recovery Plan (Harp)Local 1199Local 1199 PPOHealthfirstHealthfirst Bronze Leaf ExchangeMagnacareMagnacare PPOHealthfirstHealthfirst Bronze Total, Pro, Plus EPOMedicaid of New YorkNYS MedicaidHealthfirstHealthfirst Child Health PlusMedicareMedicare Part BHealthfirstHealthfirst Essential Plan 1 & 2MetroplusMetroplus Bronze Plus Plan ExchangeHealthfirstHealthfirst Essential Plan 3 & 4MetroplusMetroplus Child Health PlusHealthfirstHealthfirst Gold Leaf ExchangeMetroplusMetroplus GoldHealthfirstHealthfirst Gold Total, Pro, Plus EPOMetroplusMetroplus Gold Care 2HealthfirstHealthfirst Green Leaf ExchangeMetroplusMetroplus Gold Plus Plan ExchangeHealthfirstHealthfirst MedicaidMetroplusMetroplus Medicaid Managed CarePage 2 of 3Updated January 2022Accepted Insurance Plans by Employed Anesthesiology, Pathology, Radiology and Emergency Medicine ProvidersThis is a list of insurance plans accepted by most providers, including anesthesiologists, pathologists, and radiologists, employed by NYU Langone.Payor NamePlan NamePayor NamePlan NameMetroplusMetroplus MedicareRiver Spring Health PlanRiver Spring Medicare HMP SNPMetroplusMetroplus Medplus Plan ExchangeSenior Whole HealthSenior Whole Health Medicare AdvantageMetroplusMetroplus Platinum Plus Plan ExchangeTricareTricareMetroplusMetroplus Silver Plus Plan ExchangeTricareTriWestMultiplanAdministrative ConceptsTricareUS Family Health PlanMultiplanAXA Assistance USAUnited HealthcareAARP Medicare CompleteMultiplanBeech Street PPOUnited HealthcareAARP Medicare Complete MosaicMultiplanDiversified Administration CorporationUnited HealthcareOxford Health Plans Medicare AdvantageMultiplanFiserv HealthUnited HealthcareUHC Medicare Complete Choice Regional PPOMultiplanGEHAUnited HealthcareUMRMultiplanGlobal ExcelUnited HealthcareUMR WTC Health ProgramMultiplanGlobal HealthUnited HealthcareUnited Health Care CharterMultiplanGuardian Life Insurance Co Of AmericaUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare AARPMultiplanHealth Net Of CaliforniaUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare All SaversMultiplanHealth Republic Of NJUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare CareCoreMultiplanHumana Health PlanUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare ChoiceMultiplanInsurance Design AdministratorsUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees)MultiplanKaiser FoundationUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees)MultiplanKaiser PermanenteUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Choice (CBS employees)MultiplanMeritain HealthUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees)MultiplanMultiplan PPOUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Choice NSLIJMultiplanMultiplan?Capital Dist Phys HealthUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Compass ExchangeMultiplanMutual Of OmahaUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare EPOMultiplanNippon Life Ins CoUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees)MultiplanPHCSUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare HMOMultiplanProfessional Benefit AdminUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare IndemnityMultiplanQualcare IncUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees)MultiplanScreen Actors GuildUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare MedicareMultiplanTeamsters Allied BenefitsUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare NavigateMultiplanUS Life Insurance CompanyUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees)NYSHIP The Empire PlanNYS Health Insurance Plan The Empire PlanUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare POSOxfordOxford Health Plans FreedomUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare PPOOxfordOxford Health Plans LibertyUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Student ResourcesOxfordOxford MetroUnited HealthcareUnited Healthcare Value, Advantage and HDHP (New York University employees)Partners Health Plan IncPartners Health Plan FIDAUnited HealthcareUnitedHealthcare Choice (JP Morgan Employees)Partners Health Plan IncPartners Health Plan MedicaidVA Community Care NetworkVA CCN OptumPartners Health Plan IncPartners Health Plan MedicareVeterans ChoiceVeterans Choice Program VACAAPOMCO Insurance CompanyPOMCO Insurance CompanyVillage CareVillageCareQualcare Inc.Qualcare DirectVNS Choice AdvantageVNS Medicare AdvantageRailroad MedicarePalmetto GBA Railroad MedicareVNS Choice AdvantageVNS NY Choice Select HealthPage 3 of 3Updated January 2022Accepted Insurance Plans by Employed Anesthesiology, Pathology, Radiology and Emergency Medicine ProvidersThis is a list of insurance plans accepted by most providers, including anesthesiologists, pathologists, and radiologists, employed by NYU Langone.


50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 1All In. All Together.50th Anniversary Report to the Community Contents3History 7Letter from the Executive Director8Patient Care13 Stories 15 Future17 Network Sites and Programs19 Leadership20 Facts & Figures50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 1There is no more important work than to improve the health and well being of our friends, family, and community.As we have been for 50 years and will continue to be for the next 50 and beyond, we are here every day—all in, and all together.50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 12 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONESunset Park, 1967Responding to a community in needStruggling with rampant poverty, an overflowing population, and pervasive poor health, Sunset Park in 1967 was one of New York City’s toughest and most disadvantaged neighborhoods. It was in desperate need of hope, help, and healing. A new approach to caring for our community was required. Forward thinking residents and local healthcare leadership worked together, and, in partnership with the Federal Office of Economic Opportunity, opened Sunset Park Family Health Center, an innovation in community care. The opening of the Family Health Center was an indelible first step in Sunset Park’s revival and reshaped future. Historic Milestones and Accomplishments1967: With a $4 million grant from the Federal Office of Economic Opportunity, the Sunset Park Family Health Center is opened to provide medical services to area residents. 1974: A national Dental Residency program is launched.Seven more primary care centers are opened: Family Physician 1968 Sunset Terrace 1984Park Slope 1991Shore Road 1996Park Ridge 1998Flatbush 1998Seventh Avenue 200250TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 3HISTORY4 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONE4 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONESunset Park, 2017Historic Milestones and Accomplishments2000: Family Health Centers network received the federal Bureau of Primary Health Care’s “Cultural Competence Award” in recognition of our promise to deliver culturally competent primary care. 2002: Family Health Centers received the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Administrator’s Award for increasing access to care and reducing health disparities. 2010: Acquired the Community Medicine Program for homeless persons, formerly operated by the now closed St. Vincent Medical Centers. The program currently includes 11 sites in three boroughs offering primary care, health screenings, urgent care, crisis intervention, and counseling to more than 7,000 New Yorkers who are homeless or at risk. Serving Sunset Park The Sunset Park of today is different than it was in 1967. Diverse, vibrant, and confident, the 2017 version of Sunset Park still has its struggles but is living proof of what can happen when people work together. Today, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is nationally recognized for innovative, affordable, high quality care, and is one of the largest employers within the communities we serve. What began in 1967 as a grassroots pilot program has evolved and grown into a multifaceted, comprehensive system of culturally competent healthcare and social services, delivered through a network of convenient locations throughout all of Brooklyn and other parts of NYC. As true health and community revival innovators, we established: • the largest national dental residency program • the largest school health program in New York • a community medical program serving more than 7,000 homeless New Yorkers • Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) programs • one of the first health focused AmeriCorps programs 50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 5HISTORY6 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONELarry K. McReynolds, Executive Director Kathy Hopkins, Vice President, Community Based Programs Astrid P. Gonzalez, Vice President, Finance50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 7Since we began in 1967, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone has grown into one of the nation’s largest federally qualified health center networks. Since then, we remain staunchly dedicated to providing high quality primary care and social support services in the right place, at the right time, to the most vulnerable patients. Most of our population is in need of healthcare, education, and a safe place to live. Our role is to ensure they receive that support regardless of changes in healthcare politics or funding.As health innovators, we will work to remain the preferred choice for the best healthcare experience possible for all generations through every stage of life. I am here and I am all in because I—along with the NYU Langone leadership—firmly believe in our unique model for healthcare, and that every individual and family in our community deserves quality care and the best chance for a healthy, productive life. We look back over the past 50 years with gratitude and pride, and look steadily forward with optimism and confidence. We have a solid plan and a vibrant future. I firmly believe the best years for our network are yet to come. We are here to provide sustainable care to the communities we serve.Larry K. McReynoldsExecutive Director, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and SVP, Community Health at NYU Langone HealthLETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR8 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONESupporting each patient and family as a wholeEarly on, we recognized our active involvement had to extend well beyond our neighbors’ injuries or illnesses. We needed to redefine the notion of healthcare, and broaden it to combine medical services with social services that support numerous aspects of our patients’ lives such as literacy, education, employment, housing, and more. For example, our Healthy Families program provides support services for the entire family. Specially trained members of the community are matched to families for home visits. Each family receives an assessment covering areas of potential health, social, and economic need, and the support provided is then tailored to address those needs.Our approach is to care for each person, and each family, as a whole entity. That is the foundation of our work and one of the key factors to achieve long term chances of improved health and the delivery of results that change lives.PATIENT CAREHelping new moms and babies get a healthy start50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 9Patients who are truly involved in their own care are more likely to understand and follow their caregivers’ suggestions, leading to better healthcare experiences and outcomes.That’s the main idea behind our innovative obstetrics program. It starts with a diverse medical team—well versed in pregnancy, birth, delivery, and childcare—that meets regularly with small groups of moms to be at shared appointments to educate them about pregnancy, labor, delivery, and parenthood, as well as the importance of dental care, pediatric care, and car seat safety.The shared appointments foster friendships between the moms to be and help them develop a commitment to take good care of themselves and their babies before and after delivery. Our program offers incentives to women to meet important health targets, such as attending all their appointments and completing recommended testing. When they do, we arrange a group baby shower, and give them diaper bags stocked with assorted baby products.Our goal is to help every one of our expectant moms, their babies, and their families create a healthy life by offering programs to support healthy beginnings and good health at every life stage. BENEFITS OF A SHARED MEDICAL APPOINTMENT:• No waiting room time• More time—90 minutes—with the doctor and healthcare team• Comprehensive appointments include private exams, if needed• Support from peers and health team• More health and wellness informationNote: Participants at a shared medical appointment agree not to disclose other patients’ medical information they may hear at the appointment. At a July 2017 group baby shower, we surprised new moms with gifts of assorted baby products.PATIENT CARE10 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONE50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 10Providing a medical home to an entire communityWe provide high quality, affordable healthcare to every patient, regardless of health condition, life circumstance, or economic position. We are our patients’ medical home, a place where they can relax, feel they belong, and know they are genuinely cared for. At all of our care sites, cohesive teams of doctors, nurses, and specialists work together with the best interest of each patient in mind. These caregivers speak our patients’ languages, and not only understand, but may also share cultural backgrounds. The patient doctor relationships that develop here are one on one, proactive, and mutually respectful. Our patients believe we can help them because they see results in their friends, neighbors, and often their own family members. In fact, we treat many generations of the same family.PATIENT CARE50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 11PATIENT CAREDelivering greater healthcare valueEmpowering patients for better self careOur unique model of value based community care generates better health outcomes as well as improved efficiency and financial viability for care delivery to all our populations. Our integrated medical and social support services allow us to detect illnesses and conditions earlier; encourage preventive care; provide education and resources for managing chronic conditions; prevent problems that can come with fragmented care such as duplication of tests, missed areas of care, or potential drug interactions; and help with other medical concerns. This adds up to fewer, shorter hospital stays and less frequent use of emergency services, which is better for individual patients and contributes to greater economy throughout the system. Smarter, more efficient care reduces the burden of illness on our patients and of healthcare costs for all of us.Including patients as members of their healthcare team, not simply as passive recipients of care, is key, because in the end, the power to heal is in their hands. An engaged patient is one who sees the value of better results and accepts responsibility for cooperating in their care and living a healthier lifestyle. The value of the services we offer is magnified greatly when patients continue beyond the things that we can provide, adopting behaviors and habits to maintain their health and well being. Very often, people face barriers to getting and staying healthy. These barriers may include the inability to find or afford local healthcare providers; low literacy; unstable housing; fear; or a sense of unworthiness. We work hard every day to transform healthcare in Brooklyn and beyond, and to make certain it is within reach for everyone in the communities we serve. To address the key barriers to health, we offer culturally adapted programs for asthma, diabetes, breast cancer, and HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment. We continue to expand our current programs and develop new ones to meet the ever evolving needs of our community: • Proactive outreach programs remind patients about screenings, immunizations, and appointments, improving health outcomes. • Educational services address adult and family literacy skills. Our classes facilitate communications between patients and medical providers, increase employability, and prepare children for school success. • Nutritional training programs teach people of all ages how to shop for and prepare wholesome meals that are light on their budgets and good for their bodies. • Professional training opportunities immerse new doctors in family medicine, obstetrics, and internal medicine in the realities of a complex, multicultural, urban healthcare practice. Their fresh insights and ideas help us develop additional ways to reach our population. • Integrating medical care, behavioral health, and dental programs into community schools provides families with greater access to primary and preventive care for their children, including consistent treatment for chronic conditions. • Behavioral healthcare services address the whole person, recognizing that mental health plays a significant role in overall health and well being. 12 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONERemoving barriers to health and well beingPATIENT CARE50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 13I clearly remember starting my residency at the Family Health Centers. My first patient came in, sat in the chair, and when I spoke to her, she did not respond. I spoke only English, a language she did not understand. That was my first exposure to community healthcare in a diverse population. Gradually, I began to understand the complexities of community care and the serious challenges so many of our patients faced. I got closely involved with my patients and learned that dentists—good dentists—provide so much more than oral care. Although I was happy at the Family Health Centers, the lure of private practice in my home state won me over and when my residency ended, I moved on. But my heart had been altered. Private practice was good, but the feeling wasn’t the same as it was at the Family Health Centers. I missed the patients and families I had come to know, and I missed playing a role in something much bigger. At the Family Health Centers, my colleagues and I were part of an integrated medical and social services network that wrapped itself around our patients and helped change their lives. Dental care can be a gateway to a person’s overall health and at the Family Health Centers, I could bring all the pieces together for my patients. Knowing I had found my calling—the place I could truly make a difference—I returned to the Family Health Centers and focused on amplifying our efforts and value in the community. Our approach here is not typical of a dental office. We look at the whole person first. We take blood pressure readings, offer diabetes and oral cancer screenings, and even review things like medications and diet. I hired a manager of special populations and an outreach manager to help engage our neighbors—the whole community from children to seniors. We are connected with our community. And isn’t that what community care is all about? Margaret Mason, DMD, Vice President of Dental Medicine, is surrounded by the team of dentists and dental residents at Sunset Park Family Health Center. STORIESMargaret: A doctor’s connectionThe 2011 economic downturn pummeled my sports marketing business. Add in a divorce after 30 years of marriage and I was in debt. I’d always been a social drinker with clients and friends, but given my circumstances, I began drinking heavily to fight off depression and anxiety. Feelings of failure were closing in. Even my resourcefulness and wherewithal abandoned me. I felt stripped of worth. Alone. Desperate to end it all, I slit my throat. Two days later, when my landlord came to evict me, he found me unconscious, soaked in my own blood. I spent the next three blurry months in a psychiatric ward followed by a month in a rehabilitation program in Yonkers before I landed in Bowery Residents’ Committee homeless shelter on West 25th Street in Manhattan. That’s where I ran into Dr. Marc Rabiner from the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and experienced a jolt of long lost hope. Immediately drawn to him, I was blown away that he remembered me from our first meeting two months earlier. When I say remembered, I mean not just my name, but he remembered and truly “got” everything about me—my story, background, struggles, journey, and even my goals. He brushed past my present day situation and saw me as a person with a heart, dreams, and capabilities. With sincere compassion and without passing judgment on me, he quickly connected me to other professionals and services at the Family Health Centers, and that’s when all the pieces came together. Working as a team, they carried and supported me step by step from one service to the next without a gap—psychiatry, behavioral health, medical management, dental, employment assistance—whatever I needed. They transformed my journey from one of recovery to one of total restoration. Everyone from the receptionist to the counselors and medical staff knew and cared about me and became my champion. They were kind, professional, and honest, and helped me reach down deep into my well of strength, do the hard work, and raise myself up. To this day, Dr. Rabiner continues to be my primary care physician and friend, and the Family Health Centers is my medical home. I can go anywhere for care, but I choose them. They continually provide me with all the medical services I need—even preventive care that has helped me avoid larger potential health issues. I trust them to do what’s best for me. And I truly like them as people. This is just a small sliver of my story. I doubt I would be where I am today if Dr. Rabiner hadn’t seen into my heart and taken me into his care—or without the diligent care and support from every single person at the Family Health Centers. Today, Philip is sober, healthy, happy, and very proud to be actively engaged in helping other people restore their lives. He splits his time between his patient advocacy work, relaxing with his two adult children, growing his consulting business, and creating positive change by serving on several boards in Brooklyn and other parts of NYC. “Dr. Rabiner was my first real anchor.”“I always felt everyone’s deep compassion and caring.”STORIESPhilip: A patient’s second chance14 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONE50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 15Standing ready for the next 50 years and beyondWe are setting a course for our next chapter to continually redefine possibility and advance how we serve and support our diverse community. Our knowledge of patient centered community healthcare and expertise in population health management, combined with the sophisticated tools and technology of NYU Langone Health facilitates tremendous growth in the services we can offer. We are working with NYU Langone Health to identify which community interventions and programs deliver the most impact to transform and improve health. The challenges we face, both social and medical, will always be changing. However, our model for patient involvement, attention to the whole person, and caring for our community will keep us on the right track to meet those challenges.FUTURE 16 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONESummer 2016 marked the successful culmination of a massive undertaking at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and the entire Brooklyn campus—the implementation of the Epic electronic health record platform. Epic improves safety and efficiency, and offers patients greater access to their own health information, and, working in tandem with other advances in technology, it allows the Family Health Centers to implement exciting new programs that not long ago would have sounded like fiction. Here are two examples: TelepsychiatryThe Family Health Centers at NYU Langone will pilot a new telepsychiatry program at two of its 22 Brooklyn school sites. Children in grades K through 12 will use computer terminals for video linked psychiatric appointments. Aided by the school’s behavioral health social worker during the video session, a child will meet with a psychiatrist who can assess the child’s behavioral health needs, as well as conduct ongoing or follow up treatment. The psychiatrist’s notes post automatically to the child’s medical records, making them available to his or her other healthcare providers, greatly enhancing the ability to treat the whole child. Teleretinal scanningIn partnership with NYU Langone’s Department of Ophthalmology, this innovative program will help the Family Health Centers ensure that core quality standards are met for their patients. Retinal images will be quickly and painlessly taken by confocal laser scanners located at the three centers with the largest diabetic populations. These images will be conveyed electronically to an ophthalmologist who can determine if the patient requires treatment. These and other initiatives showcase the commitment that the Family Health Centers and NYU Langone Health have to delivering care to its patients.Bringing the future to today’s medicineFrom left: Eric Doescher, assistant vice president for administration and network integration, Larry McReynolds, and Isaac Dapkins, MD, chief medical officerFUTURE50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 17Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU LangoneAdult Medicine, Dental and Specialty150 55th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220718 630 7095Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU LangoneWomen’s Health, Pediatrics, and Pediatric Rehabilitation5610 Second Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 630 7942 Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone5008 Seventh Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 210 1030Flatbush Family Health Center at NYU Langone3414 Church Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11203718 630 2197Family Physician Family Health Center at NYU Langone5616 Sixth Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 439 5440Park Ridge Family Health Center at NYU Langone6317 Fourth Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 907 8100 Park Slope Family Health Center at NYU Langone220 13th Street Brooklyn, NY 11215718 832 5980Shore Road Family Health Center at NYU Langone9000 Shore Road Brooklyn, NY 11209718 630 8870Sunset Terrace Family Health Center at NYU Langone514 49th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220718 431 2600Network sites and programsPrimary Care SitesBarbara S. Kleiman Shelter for Men300 Skillman Avenue, 1st Floor Brooklyn, NY 11211Atlantic House Men’s Shelter2402 Atlantic Avenue, 1st Floor Brooklyn, NY 11233Bowery Residents’ Committee317 Bowery, 1st Floor New York, NY 10003Bowery Residents’ Committee Chemical Dependency Crisis Center127 W. 25th Street, 3rd Floor New York, NY 10001Volunteers of America Charles H. Gay Shelter for Men64 Sunken Garden Loop, 1st Floor Wards Island, NY 10035Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corp120 East 32nd Street, 2nd Floor New York, NY 10016The Kelly Transitional Housing ProgramCenter for Urban Community Services (CUCS)312 West 127th Street New York, NY 10027Magnolia House1424 Herkimer Street, 1st Floor Brooklyn, NY 11233Park Slope Women’s Shelter1402 Eighth Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11215Project Hospitality25 Central Avenue, 1st Floor Staten Island, NY 10301Project Find Woodstock127 West 43rd Street New York, NY 10036Community MedicinePS 1, PS 10, PS 15, PS 18, PS 24, PS 28, PS 31, PS 38, PS 50, PS 59, PS 90, PS 94, PS 96, PS 124, PS 153, PS 164, PS 169, PS 172, PS 179, PS 188, PS 196/ MS 582, PS 217, PS 257, PS / MS 282, PS 288, PS 307 / 313, PS 329, PS 352 / 375, PS 368, PS 503 / PS 506, PS 971, IS 88, Dewey MS 136 / Sunset Park Prep, Pershing JHS 220, Erasmus Academies High School, Sunset Park High School, Boys & Girls High School, George W. Wingate Campus High School, Abraham Lincoln High School, Juan Morel Campos Secondary School, South Shore Educational Campus, and Sheepshead Bay High SchoolSchool HealthNETWORK SITES AND PROGRAMS18 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONESunset Park Community Center for Older Adults 4520 4th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 210 1050Services for Older Adults Magical Years Early Childhood CenterChildren 6 months to 3 years230 60th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220718 439 0450St. Andrew’s Community Day CareChildren 3 years to 5 years4917 4th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 492 9678 Warren Street Center for Children and FamiliesChildren 6 months to 12 years343 Warren Street Brooklyn, NY 11201718 237 9578 14th Street PreschoolChildren 2 to 5 years199 14th Street Brooklyn, NY 11215718 788 2668Seventh Avenue Preschool 6 months to 3 years 4419 7th Avenue Brooklyn NY 11220718 435 6540Healthy StepsMain Office: Family Support Center6025 6th Avenue Brooklyn, NY718 630 7171Sunset Park Promise Neighborhood/Early Learning Network718 630 7171Sunset Park Parent Child Home ProgramMain Office: Family Support Center6025 6th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 630 7186 The Project Reach Youth CenterAt the Park Slope Neighborhood Family Health Center199 14th Street 3rd Floor Brooklyn, NY 11215718 768 0778 Project SAFE Teen Health Initiative Next Steps College Access Program Youth Connections HSE ProgramProject TRACK at the John Jay Campus of High Schools237 7th Avenue Room 151 Brooklyn, NY 11215718 832 4281 School Age Program at Warren Street Center for Children and Families343 Warren Street Brooklyn, NY 11201718 237 9578Early Childhood ServicesYouth and Adolescent Services The Family Support Center 6025 6th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220Community Services Main Office 718 630 7186Family Support Services 718 630 7186Healthy Families 347 377 5092Community Empowerment Program 718 630 7150AmeriCorps (Sunset Park Community HealthCorps / Opportunities Corps) 718 630 7164Healthy Connections 718 630 7186Her Justice Legal Services 718 630 7186Reach Out and Read 718 630 7175WIC (Women, Infants and Children)WIC at the Family Support CenterRoom 1146025 6th Avenue Brooklyn, NY 11220718 630 7161WIC at the Park Slope Family Health Center 220 13th Street Brooklyn, NY 11215718 832 5980Family Strengthening Services Shore Hill Neighborhood Center9000 Shore Road Brooklyn, NY 718 745 4730 Seniors in Touch Social Day Program Bay Ridge On the Move Transportation Program Caregivers Resource CenterNETWORK SITES AND PROGRAMS50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 19Leading for a Bright FutureGabriel Rincon, DDS ChairChang Xie, Vice ChairAngela Martinez, TreasurerLucy Sanabria, SecretaryMurad AwawdehCatherine ChanSylvia Cooper BurgessCynthia Felix JeffersMurad AwawdehCatherine ChanSylvia Cooper BurgessCynthia Felix JeffersShemala Lovell Anthony SantiagoGary Kalkut, MDVioleta MayaRev. Lawrence V. PittaBoard of TrusteesLeslie SimonettiRev. Samuel Fook WongLEADERSHIP20 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONE*2016 Uniform Data System (UDS) ReportFamily Health Centers at NYU Langone By the Numbers*FACTS & FIGURES20 FAMILY HEALTH CENTERS AT NYU LANGONE130,652Patients served807,811Patient visits29,428Dental visits53,655School health medical and behavioral health visits Patients living at of the Federal Poverty Level635 Young children achieved developmental milestones and grade promotion through our early childhood and school based centers1,494 Families obtained public benefits, adult literacy classes, legal services, health referrals, and emergency food 1,759 Seniors maintained active and independent lifestyles through our social adult day program, neighborhood centers, and transportation assistance1,993 Adolescents enrolled in college, achieved educational gains, and received health interventions through Project Reach Youth9PrimaryCare Centers11Community Medicine Sites46School Health Sites28Community Based Programs1,656Total number of employees at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone50TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TO THE COMMUNITY 2122Family Health Centers at NYU Langone5800 3rd AvenueBrooklyn, NY 11220nyulangone.org


Authorization for the Use & Disclosure of Protected Health Information (PHI) Instructions 1. Complete all sections on the form. Incomplete forms will not be accepted. 2. List the provider/entity(ies) from which you are requesting records and submit as noted in the chart below. 3. If Alcohol/Drug Treatment, Mental Health Treatment, Genetic Information, or Confidential HIV related information is to be included, initial next to each appropriate type under number one. • Alcohol or Drug Treatment information means any information from an alcohol/drug treatment program. • Mental Health Treatment information means clinical records or clinical information tending to identify mental health patients, which is protected under New York State Law. • Confidential HIV related information means any information that shows you had an HIV related test, infection, or illness (including AIDS), or have been exposed to HIV. This includes negative results. • Genetic information means any laboratory test to diagnose the presence of a genetic variation linked to a predisposition to a genetic disease or disability, including DNA profile analysis. An estimate of fees, if any, will be provided before the request is fulfilled. Site Address Telephone Number Tisch, Kimmel, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, Ambulatory Care Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department in person: 550 First Avenue, Lobby, NY, NY 10016 mail: One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 212 263 5490 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital HIM Department in person: 380 2nd Avenue, Suite 640 NY, NY 10003 mail: 301 E 17th St, NY, NY 10003 212 598 6790 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYU Langone Hospital Long Island HIM Department in person: Admitting Office Main Lobby 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 mail: 200 Old Country Road, Suite SW 201 Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 2515, option 4 Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department in person: 550 First Avenue, Lobby, NY, NY 10016 mail: One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 212 731 6180 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 120 Mineola Blvd, 6th Floor Mineola, NY 11501 516 633 8250 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn HIM Department 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 718 630 7125 NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practices (FGP) To the individual office directly Contact the individual office directly Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Marilyn Vientos, Director FHC Network Operations FHCPatientRelations@nyulangone.org Contact the individual office directly NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Certified Home Health Agency (CHHA) NYU Langone Hospital Long Island CHHA 290 Old Country Road Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 8000 Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice Attn: Practice Manager 215 54th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 929 455 2099 Radiology Films/Images Tisch: 560 1st Ave, 2nd Floor, NY, NY 10006 Orthopedic Hospital: 301 East 17th St, Suite 600/6th Floor, NY, NY 10003 FGP Radiology: NYU Langone Health Radiology Medical Records, 650 First Avenue, 4th Floor, NY, NY 10016 All other locations: directly to the location of the imaging study Tisch: 212 263 5227 Orthopedic: 212 598 6373 FGP: 212 263 7108 Others: contact the individual office directly Long Island Community Hospital (LICH) Long Island Community Hospital HIM Department 101 Hospital Road, Patchogue, NY 11772 631 654 7710 NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health Page 1 of 2 (08/19) AUTHORIZATION FOR USE AND DISCLOSURE OF PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION (PHI) Patient Name Patient Date of Birth Telephone Number Patient Address I, or my authorized representative, request that health information regarding my care and treatment be released as set forth on this form. I understand that: 1. Information relating to ALCOHOL/DRUG TREATMENT, MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT, GENETIC TESTING, and/or CONFIDENTIAL HIV* RELATED INFORMATION will not be shared unless I specifically give permission. By placing my initials below, I specifically authorize the release of such information to the person(s) indicated on this form. Alcohol or Drug Treatment Information (records from alcohol/drug treatment programs) Mental Health Treatment Information (except psychotherapy notes which may require additional authorization) Genetic Testing Information HIV/AIDS Related Information (release of this information must include the required statements regarding the prohibition of redisclosure when required by law) 2. Except for the special types of information listed above, information that is shared because of this authorization may be shared again by the recipient and no longer protected by federal or state law. Unless permitted by federal or state law, if I am giving permission to share HIV related information, the recipient cannot share this information without my permission. I can ask for a list of people who may receive or use my HIV related information without authorization. If I experience discrimination because of the release or disclosure of HIV related information, I may contact the New York State Division of Human Rights at (212) 480 2493 or the New York City Commission of Human Rights at (212) 306 7450. These agencies are responsible for protecting my rights. 3. I can revoke this authorization by writing to the provider/entity to whom I submitted the form (at the address listed on the instruction page). This revocation will be effective except to the extent NYU Langone Health and/or Long Island Community Hospital (“LICH”) has already relied upon this authorization. 4. Signing this authorization is voluntary. NYU Langone Health or LICH may not condition treatment, payment, enrollment in health plans, or eligibility for benefits on my signing or refusal to sign this authorization, except in limited circumstances. 5. If I am requesting original radiology films, I understand that there are no film (analog) copies kept by NYU Langone Health. I am releasing NYU Langone Health from all responsibility for the maintenance of my imaging records. Name and address of the Provider/Entity who you want to release information (see instruction page): NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health Page 2 of 2 (08/19) Purpose for release of information: ☐At my request ☐Continuity of Care ☐Other (please explain, including if for a government benefit or program):_______________________________ Person receiving this information: ☐Self ☐Other (name; ID required for pick up): ________________________________________________ Form/Format (fees may apply; an estimate will be provided prior to release): ☐Mail paper to: ___________________________________________________________ ☐Pick up, paper ☐MyChart (available for download for 60 days) ☐Fax (number):__________________________ ☐CD/DVD ☐USB ☐Secure Email (available to access/download for 30 days): ______________________________________ ☐Other: _______________________________________________________________________________ Description of the information to be released: ☐Entire medical record from the provider/entity indicated above ☐Records related to the following dates: ______________________________________________________ ☐Radiology reports (list type of test and date):___________________________________________________ ☐Radiology films/images (list type of test and date):______________________________________________ ☐Abstract (summary) of information related to the following dates: ________________________________ ☐Records sent to the provider/entity indicated above by non NYU Langone Health or LICH providers and kept by NYU Langone Health or LICH for use in my care ☐Other (e.g., billing records; consent forms):_____________________________________________________ Authorization will end one (1) year from the date signed, unless stated here (specific event or date): ___________________________________________________________________________________ My questions, if any, have been answered. In addition, I have been provided or offered a copy of this form if NYU Langone Health and/or LICH has asked me to complete this form. Signature: ___________________________________ Date: ______________ Time: __________ AM/PM (Patient or person authorized to sign) If the person consenting is not the patient, print name and type of authority to sign. Supporting documentation should be provided at the time of the request. Name/Authority: _________________________________________________________________________ *Human Immunodeficiency Virus that causes AIDS. The New York State Public Health Law protects information which reasonable could identify someone as having HIV symptoms or infection and information regarding a person’s contacts. Office Use Only: MRN: _____________________Received: ______/______/______ Initials: _________


Authorization for the Use & Disclosure of Protected Health Information (PHI) Instructions 1. Complete all sections on the form. Incomplete forms will not be accepted. 2. List the provider/entity(ies) from which you are requesting records and submit as noted in the chart below. 3. If Alcohol/Drug Treatment, Mental Health Treatment, Genetic Information, or Confidential HIV related information is to be included, initial next to each appropriate type under number one. • Alcohol or Drug Treatment information means any information from an alcohol/drug treatment program. • Mental Health Treatment information means clinical records or clinical information tending to identify mental health patients, which is protected under New York State Law. • Confidential HIV related information means any information that shows you had an HIV related test, infection, or illness (including AIDS), or have been exposed to HIV. This includes negative results. • Genetic information means any laboratory test to diagnose the presence of a genetic variation linked to a predisposition to a genetic disease or disability, including DNA profile analysis. An estimate of fees, if any, will be provided before the request is fulfilled. Site Address Telephone Number Tisch, Kimmel, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, Ambulatory Care Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department 650 First Avenue, 6th Floor NY, NY 10016 212 263 5490 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital HIM Department in person: 380 2nd Avenue, Suite 640 NY, NY 10003 mail: 301 E 17th St, NY, NY 10003 212 598 6790 NYU Winthrop Hospital NYU Winthrop Hospital HIM Department 200 Old Country Road, Suite 580 Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 2515, option 4 Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 160 E 34th Street NY, NY 10016 212 731 6180 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn HIM Department 150 55th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 718 630 7125 NYU School of Medicine Faculty Group Practices (FGP) To the individual office directly Contact the individual office directly Family Health Centers at NYU Langone To the individual office directly Contact the individual office directly NYU Winthrop Certified Home Health Agency (CHHA) NYU Winthrop CHHA 290 Old Country Road Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 8000 Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice Attn: Practice Manager 215 54th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 929 455 2099 Radiology Films/Images Tisch: 560 1st Ave, 2nd Floor, NY, NY 10006 Orthopedic Hospital: 301 East 17th St, Suite 600/6th Floor, NY, NY 10003 FGP Radiology: NYU Langone Health Radiology Medical Records, 650 First Avenue, 4th Floor, NY, NY 10016 All other locations: directly to the location of the imaging study Tisch: 212 263 5227 Orthopedic: 212 598 6373 FGP: 212 263 7108 Others: contact the individual office directly NYU LANGONE HEALTH Page 1 of 2 (08/19) AUTHORIZATION FOR USE AND DISCLOSURE OF PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION (PHI) Patient Name Patient Date of Birth Telephone Number Patient Address I, or my authorized representative, request that health information regarding my care and treatment be released as set forth on this form. I understand that: 1. Information relating to ALCOHOL/DRUG TREATMENT, MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT, GENETIC TESTING, and/or CONFIDENTIAL HIV* RELATED INFORMATION will not be shared unless I specifically give permission. By placing my initials below, I specifically authorize the release of such information to the person(s) indicated on this form. Alcohol or Drug Treatment Information (records from alcohol/drug treatment programs) Mental Health Treatment Information (except psychotherapy notes which may require additional authorization) Genetic Testing Information HIV/AIDS Related Information (release of this information must include the required statements regarding the prohibition of redisclosure when required by law) 2. Except for the special types of information listed above, information that is shared because of this authorization may be shared again by the recipient and no longer protected by federal or state law. Unless permitted by federal or state law, if I am giving permission to share HIV related information, the recipient cannot share this information without my permission. I can ask for a list of people who may receive or use my HIV related information without authorization. If I experience discrimination because of the release or disclosure of HIV related information, I may contact the New York State Division of Human Rights at (212) 480 2493 or the New York City Commission of Human Rights at (212) 306 7450. These agencies are responsible for protecting my rights. 3. I can revoke this authorization by writing to the provider/entity to whom I submitted the form (at the address listed on the instruction page). This revocation will be effective except to the extent NYU Langone Health has already relied upon this authorization. 4. Signing this authorization is voluntary. NYU Langone Health may not condition treatment, payment, enrollment in health plans, or eligibility for benefits on my signing or refusal to sign this authorization, except in limited circumstances. 5. If I am requesting original radiology films, I understand that there are no film (analog) copies kept by NYU Langone Health. I am releasing NYU Langone Health from all responsibility for the maintenance of my imaging records. Name and address of the Provider/Entity who you want to release information (see instruction page): NYU LANGONE HEALTH Page 2 of 2 (08/19) Purpose for release of information: ☐At my request ☐Continuity of Care ☐Other (please explain, including if for a government benefit or program):_______________________________ Person receiving this information: ☐Self ☐Other (name; ID required for pick up): ________________________________________________ Form/Format (fees may apply; an estimate will be provided prior to release): ☐Mail paper to: ___________________________________________________________ ☐Pick up, paper ☐MyChart (available for download for 60 days) ☐Fax (number):__________________________ ☐CD/DVD ☐USB ☐Secure Email (available to access/download for 30 days): ______________________________________ ☐Other: _______________________________________________________________________________ Description of the information to be released: ☐Entire medical record from the provider/entity indicated above ☐Records related to the following dates: ______________________________________________________ ☐Radiology reports (list type of test and date):___________________________________________________ ☐Radiology films/images (list type of test and date):______________________________________________ ☐Abstract (summary) of information related to the following dates: ________________________________ ☐Records sent to the provider/entity indicated above by non NYU Langone Health providers and kept by NYU Langone Health for use in my care ☐Other (e.g., billing records; consent forms):_____________________________________________________ Authorization will end one (1) year from the date signed, unless stated here (specific event or date): ___________________________________________________________________________________ My questions, if any, have been answered. In addition, I have been provided or offered a copy of this form if NYU Langone Health has asked me to complete this form. Signature: ___________________________________ Date: ______________ Time: __________ AM/PM (Patient or person authorized to sign) If the person consenting is not the patient, print name and type of authority to sign. Supporting documentation should be provided at the time of the request. Name/Authority: _________________________________________________________________________ *Human Immunodeficiency Virus that causes AIDS. The New York State Public Health Law protects information which reasonable could identify someone as having HIV symptoms or infection and information regarding a person’s contacts. Office Use Only: MRN: _____________________Received: ______/______/______ Initials: _________


NYU LANGONE Page 1 of 2 (12/16) AUTHORIZATION FOR USE AND DISCLOSURE OF PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION (PHI) Patient Name Patient Date of Birth Telephone Number Patient Address I, or my authorized representative, request that health information regarding my care and treatment be released as set forth on this form. I understand that: 1. Information relating to ALCOHOL/DRUG TREATMENT, MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT, GENETIC TESTING, and/or CONFIDENTIAL HIV* RELATED INFORMATION will not be shared unless I specifically give permission. By placing my initials below, I specifically authorize the release of such information to the person(s) indicated on this form. Alcohol or Drug Treatment Information (records from alcohol/drug treatment programs) Mental Health Treatment Information (except psychotherapy notes which require a separate form) Genetic Testing Information HIV/AIDS Related Information (release of this information must include the required statements regarding the prohibition of redisclosure when required by law) 2. Except for the special types of information listed above, information that is shared because of this authorization may be shared again by the recipient and no longer protected by federal or state law. Unless permitted by federal or state law, if I am giving permission to share HIV related information, the recipient cannot share this information without my permission. I can ask for a list of people who may receive or use my HIV related information without authorization. If I experience discrimination because of the release or disclosure of HIV related information, I may contact the New York State Division of Human Rights at (212) 480 2493 or the New York City Commission of Human Rights at (212) 306 7450. These agencies are responsible for protecting my rights. 3. I can revoke this authorization by writing to the provider/entity to whom I submitted the form (at the address listed on the instruction page). This revocation will be effective except to the extent NYU Langone has already relied upon this authorization. 4. Signing this authorization is voluntary. NYU Langone may not condition treatment, payment, enrollment in health plans, or eligibility for benefits on my signing or refusal to sign this authorization, except in limited circumstances. 5. If I am requesting radiology films, I understand that these are my original films and there are no film (analog) copies kept by NYU Langone. I am releasing NYU Langone from all responsibility for the maintenance of my imaging records. Name and Address of the Provider/Entity from which you are requesting records (see instruction page): NYU LANGONE Page 2 of 2 (12/16) Purpose for release of information: ☐At my request ☐Continuity of Care ☐Other (please explain):______________________ Person receiving this information: ☐Self ☐Other (name; ID required for pick up): ________________________________________________ Form/Format (fees may apply; an estimate will be provided prior to release): ☐Mail paper to: ___________________________________________________________ ☐Pick up, paper ☐MyChart (available for download for 60 days) ☐Fax (number):__________________________ ☐CD/DVD ☐Secure Email (available to access/download for 30 days): ______________________________________ ☐Other: _______________________________________________________________________________ Description of the information to be released: ☐Entire medical record from the provider/entity indicated above ☐Records related to the following dates: ______________________________________________________ ☐Radiology reports (list type of test and date):_________________________________________________ ☐Radiology films (list type of test and date):___________________________________________________ ☐Abstract (summary) of information related to the following dates: ________________________________ ☐Records sent to the provider/entity indicated above by non NYU Langone providers and kept by NYU Langone for use in my care ☐Other (e.g., billing records; consent forms):__________________________________________________ Authorization will end one (1) year from the date signed, unless stated here (specific event or date): ___________________________________________________________________________________ My questions, if any, have been answered. In addition, I have been provided or offered a copy of this form if NYU Langone has asked me to complete this form. Signature: ___________________________________ Date: ______________ Time: __________ AM/PM (Patient or person authorized to sign) If the person consenting is not the patient, print name and type of authority to sign. Supporting documentation should be provided at the time of the request. Name/Authority: _________________________________________________________________________ *Human Immunodeficiency Virus that causes AIDS. The New York State Public Health Law protects information which reasonable could identify someone as having HIV symptoms or infection and information regarding a person’s contacts. Office Use Only: MRN: _____________________Received: ______/______/______ Initials: _________


ﺗﻌﻠﯿﻤﺎت ﺗﺼﺮﯾﺢ اﺳﺘﺨﺪام اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺼﺤﯿﺔ اﻟﻤﺤﻤﯿﺔ)PHI (واﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻨﮭﺎ 1. أﻛﻤﻞ ﺟﻤﯿﻊ اﻷﻗﺴﺎم اﻟﻤﻮﺟﻮدة ﻓﻲ اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج. ﻟﻦ ﯾﺘﻢ ﻗﺒﻮل اﻟﻨﻤﺎذج ﻏﯿﺮ اﻟﻜﺎﻣﻠﺔ. 2. اذﻛﺮ ﻣﻘﺪم اﻟﺨﺪﻣﺔ/اﻟﺠﮭﺔ )اﻟﺠﮭﺎت( اﻟﺘﻲ ﺗﻄﻠﺐ اﻟﺴﺠﻼت ﻣﻨﮭﺎ وﻗﺪﻣﮭﺎ ﻛﻤﺎ ھﻮ ﻣﻮﺿﺢ ﻓﻲ اﻟﺠﺪول أدﻧﺎه. 3. إذا ﻛﺎن ﺳﯿﺘﻢ ﺗﻀﻤﯿﻦ ﻣﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت ﻣﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﻌﻼج ﻣﻦ إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل/اﻟﻤﺨﺪرات أو ﻋﻼج اﻟﺼﺤﺔ اﻟﻌﻘﻠﯿﺔ أو اﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎرات اﻟﻮراﺛﯿﺔ أو ﻣﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت ﺳﺮﯾﺔ ﻣﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ، ﻓﻮﻗﻊ ﺑﺎﻷﺣﺮف اﻷوﻟﻰ ﺗﺤﺖ اﻟﺮﻗﻢ واﺣﺪ ﺑﺠﺎﻧﺐ ﻛﻞ ﻧﻮع ﻣﻨﺎﺳﺐ. • ﯾُﻘﺼﺪ ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﻌﻼج ﻣﻦ إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل أو اﻟﻤﺨﺪرات أي ﻣﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت ﻣﻦ ﺑﺮاﻣﺞ اﻟﻌﻼج ﻣﻦ إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل/اﻟﻤﺨﺪرات. • وﯾﻘﺼﺪ ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻌﻼج اﻟﺼﺤﺔ اﻟﻌﻘﻠﯿﺔ اﻟﺴﺠﻼت اﻹﻛﻠﯿﻨﯿﻜﯿﺔ أو اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻹﻛﻠﯿﻨﯿﻜﯿﺔ اﻟﺘﻲ ﺗﻤﯿﻞ ﻟﺘﻌﺮﯾﻒ اﻟﺸﺨﺺ ﻛﻤﺮﯾﺾ ﺻﺤﺔ ﻋﻘﻠﯿﺔ، واﻟﺘﻲ ﺗﺨﻀﻊ ﻟﻠﺤﻤﺎﯾﺔ وﻓﻘًﺎ ﻟﻘﺎﻧﻮن وﻻﯾﺔ ﻧﯿﻮﯾﻮرك. • ﯾُﻘﺼﺪ ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺴﺮﯾﺔ اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ أي ﻣﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت ﺗﻈﮭﺮ أﻧﻚ ﺧﻀﻌﺖ ﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎر أو إﺻﺎﺑﺘﻚ ﺑﻌﺪوى أو ﻣﺮض ذي ﺻﻠﺔﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ )ﺑﻤﺎ ﻓﻲ ذﻟﻚ اﻹﯾﺪز( أو ﺗﻌﺮﺿﻚ ﻟﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔو . ﯾﺸﻤﻞ ذﻟﻚ اﻟﻨﺘﺎﺋﺞ اﻟﺴﻠﺒﯿﺔ ﻟﻼﺧﺘﺒﺎرات. • وﯾُﻘﺼﺪ ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻮراﺛﯿﺔ أي اﺧﺘﺒﺎر ﻣﻌﻤﻠﻲ ﯾﺘﻢ ﻟﺘﺸﺨﯿﺺ وﺟﻮد اﺧﺘﻼف ﺟﯿﻨﻲ ﻣﺮﺗﺒﻂ ﺑﺎﻟﻤﯿﻞ ﻟﻺﺻﺎﺑﺔ ﺑﻤﺮض وراﺛﻲ أو إﻋﺎﻗﺔ وراﺛﯿﺔ، ﺑﻤﺎ ﻓﻲ ذﻟﻚ ﺗﺤﻠﯿﻞ ﻣﻠﻒ اﻟﺤﻤﺾ اﻟﻨﻮوي DNA. ﺳﯿُﻘﺪم ﻟﻚ ﺗﻘﺪﯾﺮً ا ﺑﺎﻟﺮﺳﻮم، إن وﺟﺪت، ﻗﺒﻞ إﻛﻤﺎل اﻟﻄﻠﺐ. اﻟﻤﻮﻗﻊ اﻟﻌﻨﻮان رﻗﻢ اﻟﮭﺎﺗﻒ Tisch, Kimmel, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, Ambulatory Care Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department ﺷﺨﺼﯿًﺎ: 550 First Avenue, Lobby, NY, NY 10016 اﻟﺒﺮﯾﺪ: 10016Floor, NY, NY rd3One Park Avenue, 212 263 5490 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital HIM Department ﺷﺨﺼﯿًﺎ: 10003NY, NY 640Avenue, Suite dn2 380 اﻟﺒﺮﯾﺪ: 10003St, NY, NY th17 E 301 212 598 6790 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYU Langone Hospital Long Island HIM Department ﺷﺨﺼﯿًﺎ :Admitting Office Main Lobby 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 اﻟﺒﺮﯾﺪ: 200 Old Country Road, Suite SW 201 Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 2515 ، اﻟﺨﯿﺎر4 Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 160 E 34th Street NY, NY 10016 212 731 6180 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department Floor Mineola, NY 11501 thMineola Blvd, 6 120 516 633 8250 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn HIM Department Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 th55 150 718 630 7125 NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practices (FGP) إﻟﻰ اﻟﻤﻜﺘﺐ اﻟﻤﻌﻨﻲ ﻣﺒﺎﺷﺮة ﯾﺘﻢ اﻻﺗﺼﺎل ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻜﺘﺐ اﻟﻤﻌﻨﻲﻣﺒﺎﺷﺮة Family Health Centers اﻟﺘﺎﺑﻌﺔ ﻟـNYU Langone Marilyn Vientos ، ﻣﺪﯾﺮ ﻋﻤﻠﯿﺎت ﺷﺒﻜﺔFHC FHCPatientRelations@nvulangone.org ﯾﺘﻢ اﻻﺗﺼﺎل ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻜﺘﺐ اﻟﻤﻌﻨﻲ ﻣﺒﺎﺷﺮة NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Certified Home Health Agency (CHHA) NYU Langone Hospital Long Island CHHA 290 Old Country Road Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 8000 Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice ﻋﻨﺎﯾﺔ :Practice Manager Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 th54 215 929 455 2099 ﺻﻮر/أﻓﻼم اﻷﺷﻌﺔ )Radiology Films/Images( 6Floor, NY, NY 1000 ndAve, 2 stTisch: 560 1 Floor, thSt, Suite 600/6 thOrthopedic Hospital: 301 East 17NY, NY 10003 FGP Radiology: NYU Langone Health Radiology Medical , Floor, NY, NY 10016 thRecords, 650 First Avenue, 4 ﺟﻤﯿﻊاﻷﻣﺎﻛﻦ اﻷﺧﺮى :ﻣﺒﺎﺷﺮة إﻟﻰ ﻣﻮﻗﻊ دراﺳﺔ اﻟﺘﺼﻮﯾﺮ Tisch: 212 263 5227 Orthopedic: 212 598 6373 FGP: 212 263 7108 اﻷﻣﺎﻛﻦ اﻷﺧﺮى : ﯾﺘﻢ اﻻﺗﺼﺎل ﺑﺎﻟﻤﻜﺘﺐاﻟﻤﻌﻨﻲ ﻣﺒﺎﺷﺮة Long Island Community Hospital (LICH) Long Island Community Hospital HIM Department 101 Hospital Road, Patchogue, NY 11772 631 654 7710 ﺻﻔﺤﺔ1 ﻣﻦ2 )08/19( NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health ﺗﺼﺮﯾﺢ ﺑﺎﺳﺘﺨﺪام اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺼﺤﯿﺔ اﻟﻤﺤﻤﯿﺔ)PHI (واﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻨﮭﺎ اﺳﻢ اﻟﻤﺮﯾﺾ ﺗﺎرﯾﺦ ﻣﯿﻼد اﻟﻤﺮﯾﺾ رﻗﻢ اﻟﮭﺎﺗﻒ ﻋﻨﻮان اﻟﻤﺮﯾﺾ أطﺎﻟﺐ أﻧﺎ، أو ﻣﻤﺜﻠﻲ اﻟﻤﻔﻮض، ﺑﺄن ﯾﺘﻢ اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺼﺤﯿﺔ اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﺮﻋﺎﯾﺘﻲ وﻋﻼﺟﻲ ﻛﻤﺎ ھﻮ ﻣﻮﺿﺢ ﺑﮭﺬا اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج. وأدرك ﻣﺎ ﯾﻠﻲ: 1 . أن اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔﺑﻌﻼج إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل/اﻟﻤﺨﺪراتأو / ، وﻋﻼج اﻟﺼﺤﺔ اﻟﻌﻘﻠﯿﺔأو / ، واﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎرات اﻟﻮراﺛﯿﺔأو / ، واﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺴﺮﯾﺔ اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ* ﻟﻦ ﺗﺘﻢ ﻣﺸﺎرﻛﺘﮭﺎ إﻻ إذا أﻋﻄﯿﺖ إذﻧًﺎ ﻣﺤﺪدًا ﺑﺬﻟﻚ. وﺑﺘﻮﻗﯿﻌﻲ ﺑﺎﻷﺣﺮف اﻷوﻟﻰ ﻣﻦ اﺳﻤﻲ أدﻧﺎه، ﻓﺄﻧﺎ أﺻﺮح ﺗﺤﺪﯾﺪًا ﺑﺎﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ ھﺬه اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت ﻟﻠﺸﺨﺺ )اﻷﺷﺨﺎص( اﻟﻤﺬﻛﻮرﯾﻦ )( ﻓﻲ ھﺬا اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج. اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻌﻼج إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل أو اﻟﻤﺨﺪرات)اﻟﺴﺠﻼت ﻣﻦ ﺑﺮاﻣﺞ ﻋﻼج إدﻣﺎن اﻟﻜﺤﻮل/اﻟﻤﺨﺪرات( اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻌﻼج اﻟﺼﺤﺔ اﻟﻌﻘﻠﯿﺔ) ًﺑﺎﺳﺘﺜﻨﺎء ﻣﻼﺣﻈﺎت اﻟﻌﻼج اﻟﻨﻔﺴﻲ اﻟﺘﻲ ﺗﺘﻄﻠﺐ ﺗﻔﻮﯾﻀًﺎ ﻣﻨﻔﺼﻼ( ﻣﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎرات اﻟﻮراﺛﯿﺔ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ/ اﻹﯾﺪز)ﯾﺠﺐ أن ﯾﺘﻀﻤﻦ اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ ھﺬه اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻹﻓﺎدات اﻟﻤﻄﻠﻮﺑﺔ ﺑﺨﺼﻮص ﺣﻈﺮإﻋﺎدة اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻨﺪﻣﺎ ﯾﺘﻄﻠﺐ اﻟﻘﺎﻧﻮن ذﻟﻚ( 2 . ﺑﺎﺳﺘﺜﻨﺎء اﻷﻧﻮاع اﻟﺨﺎﺻﺔ ﻣﻦ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺬﻛﻮرة أﻋﻼه، ﻓﺈﻧﮫ ﯾﻤﻜﻦ ﻟﻠﻄﺮف اﻟﻤﺘﻠﻘﻲ إﻋﺎدة ﻣﺸﺎرﻛﺔ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎتاﻟﺘﻲ ﯾﺘﯿﺢ ھﺬا اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ ﻣﺸﺎرﻛﺘﮭﺎ واﻟﺘﻲ ﻻ ﺗﻜﻮن ﻣﺤﻤﯿﺔ ﺑﻌﺪ ذﻟﻚ وﻓﻘًﺎ ﻟﻠﻘﺎﻧﻮن اﻟﻔﯿﺪراﻟﻲ أو ﻗﺎﻧﻮن اﻟﻮﻻﯾﺔ. وﻣﺎ ﻟﻢ ﯾﻜﻦ ﻣﺴﻤﻮﺣًﺎ ﺑﮫ ﻣﻦ ﻗﺒﻞ اﻟﻘﺎﻧﻮن اﻟﻔﯿﺪراﻟﻲ أو ﻗﺎﻧﻮن اﻟﻮﻻﯾﺔ، إذا أﻋﻄﯿﺖ اﻹذن ﻟﺘﺒﺎدل اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ )HIV(، ﻓﻼ ﯾﻤﻜﻦ ﻟﻠﻤﺘﻠﻘﻲ ﻣﺸﺎرﻛﺔ ھﺬه اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت دون إذن ﻣﻨﻲ. ﯾﻤﻜﻨﻨﻲ طﻠﺐ ﻗﺎﺋﻤﺔ ﺑﺎﻷﺷﺨﺎص اﻟﺬﯾﻦ ﻗﺪ ﯾﺘﻠﻘﻮن أو ﯾﺴﺘﺨﺪﻣﻮن اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺨﺎﺻﺔ ﺑﻲ اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ دون ﺗﺼﺮﯾﺢ. إذا ﺗﻌﺮﺿﺖُ ﻟﻠﺘﻤﯿﯿﺰ ﻧﺘﯿﺠﺔ اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﻔﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ أو اﻹﻓﺼﺎح ﻋﻨﮭﺎ، ﻓﺈﻧﮫ ﯾﻤﻜﻨﻨﻲ اﻻﺗﺼﺎل ﺑﺈدارة ﺣﻘﻮق اﻹﻧﺴﺎن ﺑﻮﻻﯾﺔ ﻧﯿﻮﯾﻮرك )New York State Division of Human Rights ( ﻋﻠﻰ اﻟﺮﻗﻢ(212) 480 2493 أو ﺑﻠﺠﻨﺔ ﺣﻘﻮق اﻹﻧﺴﺎن ﺑﻤﺪﯾﻨﺔ ﻧﯿﻮﯾﻮرك)New York City Commission of Human Rights ( ﻋﻠﻰ اﻟﺮﻗﻢ(212) 306 7450 . ھﺬه اﻟﻮﻛﺎﻻت ﻣﺴﺆوﻟﺔ ﻋﻦ ﺣﻤﺎﯾﺔﺣﻘﻮﻗﻲ. 3 . ﯾﻤﻜﻨﻨﻲ إﻟﻐﺎء ھﺬا اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ ﺑﻤﺮاﺳﻠﺔ ﻣﻘﺪم اﻟﺨﺪﻣﺔ/اﻟﺠﮭﺔ اﻟﺘﻲ ﻗﺪﻣﺖ ﻟﮭﺎ اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج )ﻋﻠﻰ اﻟﻌﻨﻮان اﻟﻤﺪرج ﻓﻲ ﺻﻔﺤﺔ اﻟﺘﻌﻠﯿﻤﺎت(. ﺳﯿﻜﻮن ھﺬااﻹﻟﻐﺎء ﺳﺎرﯾًﺎ ﻣﺎ ﻋﺪا إﻟﻰ اﻟﺤﺪ اﻟﺬي ﻛﺎﻧﺖ ﻓﯿﮫ NYU Langone Health و/أوLong Island Community Hospital (“LICH”) ﻗﺪ اﻋﺘﻤﺪت ﺑﺎﻟﻔﻌﻞﻋﻠﻰ ھﺬا اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ. 4 . اﻟﺘﻮﻗﯿﻊ ﻋﻠﻰ ھﺬا اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ أﻣﺮ طﻮﻋﻲ. ﯾﺤﻈﺮ ﻋﻠﻰNYU Langone Health أوLICH أن ﺗﺠﻌﻞ ﺗﻘﺪﯾﻤﮭﺎ اﻟﻌﻼج أو اﻟﺴﺪاد أو اﻻﻟﺘﺤﺎقﺑﺎﻟﺨﻄﻂ اﻟﺘﺄﻣﯿﻨﯿﺔ اﻟﺼﺤﯿﺔ أو اﻷھﻠﯿﺔ ﻟﻠﺤﺼﻮل ﻋﻠﻰ ﻣﺨﺼﺼﺎت ﻣﺸﺮوطًﺎ ﺑﺘﻮﻗﯿﻌﻲ ﻋﻠﻰ ھﺬا اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ أو ﻋﺪﻣﮫ، ﻋﺪا ﻓﻲ ظﺮوف ﻣﺤﺪودة. 5 . إذا طﻠﺒﺖ اﻟﺤﺼﻮل ﻋﻠﻰ أﻓﻼم اﻷﺷﻌﺔ، ﻓﺄﻧﺎ أﻓﮭﻢ أﻧﮫ ﻻ ﯾﻮﺟﺪ ﻧﺴﺦ أﻓﻼم )ﺗﻨﺎظﺮﯾﺔ( ﺗﺤﺘﻔﻆ ﺑﮭﺎ NYU Langone Health . أﻋﻔﻲNYU Langone Health ﻣﻦ أي ﻣﺴﺆوﻟﯿﺔ ﻟﻠﺤﻔﺎظ ﻋﻠﻰ ﺳﺠﻼت اﻟﺘﺼﻮﯾﺮ اﻟﻄﺒﻲ اﻟﺨﺎﺻﺔ ﺑﻲ. اﺳﻢ وﻋﻨﻮان ﻣﻘﺪم اﻟﺨﺪﻣﺔ/اﻟﺠﮭﺔ اﻟﺘﻲ ﺗﻄﻠﺐ اﻟﺴﺠﻼت ﻣﻨﮭﺎ )اﻧﻈﺮ ﺻﻔﺤﺔ اﻟﺘﻌﻠﯿﻤﺎت(: ﺻﻔﺤﺔ2 ﻣﻦ2 )08/19( NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health اﻟﻐﺮض ﻣﻦ اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت: □ ﺑﻨﺎءً ﻋﻠﻰ طﻠﺒﻲ □ اﺳﺘﻤﺮار اﻟﺮﻋﺎﯾﺔ □ أﺧﺮى)ﯾﺮﺟﻰ اﻟﺸﺮح، ﺑﻤﺎ ﻓﻲ ذﻟﻚ ﻟﺒﺮﻧﺎﻣﺞ أو ﻣﺨﺼﺼﺎت ﺣﻜﻮﻣﯿﺔ(: ___________________________________________________ اﻟﺸﺨﺺ اﻟﺬي ﯾﺘﻠﻘﻰ ھﺬه اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت: □ أﻧﺎ□ ﻏﯿﺮ ذﻟﻚ)اﻻﺳﻢ ورﻗﻢ اﻟﮭﻮﯾﺔ ﻣﻄﻠﻮﺑﺎن ﻟﻼﺳﺘﻼم(: ___________________________________________________ اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج/اﻟﺘﻨﺴﯿﻖ )ﻗﺪ ﯾﺘﻢ ﺗﻄﺒﯿﻖ رﺳﻮم؛ ﺳﯿﺘﻢ اﻟﺘﻘﺪﯾﻢ ﻗﺒﻞ اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻦ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت(: □ إرﺳﺎل اﻷوراق ﻋﻦ طﺮﯾﻖ اﻟﺒﺮﯾﺪ إﻟﻰ: _____________________________________________________________ □ اﺳﺘﻼم اﻷوراق □ MyChart ) ﻣﺘﻮﻓﺮ ﻟﻠﺘﻨﺰﯾﻞ ﻟﻤﺪة60 ﯾﻮﻣًﺎ( □ اﻟﻔﺎﻛﺲ))رﻗﻤﮫ (: □ اﻷﺳﻄﻮاﻧﺔ اﻟﻤﺪﻣﺠﺔ )CD/( ﻗﺮص اﻟﻔﯿﺪﯾﻮ اﻟﺮﻗﻤﻲ)DVD( □ اﻟﻨﺎﻗﻞ اﻟﺘﺴﻠﺴﻠﻲ اﻟﻌﺎﻟﻤﻲ)USB( □ ﺑﺮﯾﺪ إﻟﻜﺘﺮوﻧﻲ آﻣﻦ)ﻣﺘﻮﻓﺮ ﻟﻠﻮﺻﻮل/اﻟﺘﻨﺰﯾﻞ ﻟﻤﺪة 30 ﯾﻮﻣًﺎ(: _______________________________________________________ □ أﻣﻮر أﺧﺮى: _____________________________________________________________________________ وﺻﻒ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺮاد اﻟﻜﺸﻒ ﻋﻨﮭﺎ: □ اﻟﺴﺠﻞ اﻟﻄﺒﻲاﻟﻜﺎﻣﻞ ﻣﻦ ﻣﻘﺪم اﻟﺨﺪﻣﺔ/اﻟﺠﮭﺔ اﻟﻤﻮﺿﺢ( ة)أﻋﻼه □ ﺳﺠﻼت ﻣﺮﺗﺒﻄﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﺘﻮارﯾﺦ اﻟﺘﺎﻟﯿﺔ: ________________________________________________________________ □ ﺗﻘﺎرﯾﺮ اﻷﺷﻌﺔ)ﻣﻊ ذﻛﺮ ﻧﻮع اﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎر وﺗﺎرﯾﺨﮫ(: _______________________________________________________________ □ أﻓﻼم/ﺻﻮر اﻷﺷﻌﺔ )ﻣﻊ ذﻛﺮ ﻧﻮع اﻻﺧﺘﺒﺎر وﺗﺎرﯾﺨﮫ(: ___________________________________________________________ □ ﺧﻼﺻﺔ)ﻣﻠﺨﺺ( اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﺘﻮارﯾﺦ اﻟﺘﺎﻟﯿﺔ: ___________________________________________________ □ اﻟﺴﺠﻼت اﻟﻤﺮﺳﻠﺔ إﻟﻰﻣﻘﺪم اﻟﺨﺪﻣﺔ/اﻟﺠﮭﺔ اﻟﻤﻮﺿﺢ( ة)أﻋﻼه ﺑﻮاﺳﻄﺔ ﻣﻘﺪﻣﻲ ﺧﺪﻣﺎت ﻏﯿﺮ ﺗﺎﺑﻌﯿﻦ ﻟـNYU Langone وﺗﺤﺘﻔﻆ ﺑﮭﺎNYU Langone ﻟﻼﺳﺘﺨﺪام ﻓﻲ رﻋﺎﯾﺘﻲ □ أﺧﺮى )ﻣﺜﻞ ﺳﺠﻼت اﻟﻔﻮاﺗﯿﺮ؛ ﻧﻤﺎذج اﻟﻤﻮاﻓﻘﺔ(: _______________________________________________________________ ﺳﯿﻨﺘﮭﻲ اﻟﺘﺼﺮﯾﺢ ﺑﻌﺪ ﻋﺎم واﺣﺪ)1 (ﻣﻦ ﺗﺎرﯾﺦ ﺗﻮﻗﯿﻌﮫ، إﻻ إذا ذﻛﺮ ﺧﻼف ذﻟﻚ ھﻨﺎ )ﺣﺪث أو ﺗﺎرﯾﺦ ﻣﻌﯿﻦ(: ﻟﻘﺪ ﺗﻤﺖ اﻹﺟﺎﺑﺔ ﻋﻦ أﺳﺌﻠﺘﻲ، إن وﺟﺪت. إﺿﺎﻓﺔ إﻟﻰ ذﻟﻚ، ﻓﻘﺪ ﺗﻢ ﺗﺰوﯾﺪي، أو ﻋُﺮض ﻋﻠﻲ ﺗﺰوﯾﺪي، ﺑﻨﺴﺨﺔ ﻣﻦ ھﺬا اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج إذا طﻠﺒﺖ ﻣﻨﻲNYU Langone Health و/أوLICH .إﻛﻤﺎل ھﺬا اﻟﻨﻤﻮذج اﻟﺘﻮﻗﯿﻊ : اﻟﺘﺎرﯾﺦ : اﻟﻮﻗﺖ : ﺻﺒﺎﺣًﺎ/ﻣﺴﺎءً )اﻟﻤﺮﯾﺾ أو اﻟﺸﺨﺺ اﻟﻤﻔﻮض ﺑﺎﻟﺘﻮﻗﯿﻊ( إذا ﻛﺎن اﻟﺸﺨﺺ اﻟﺬي ﯾﻘﺪم اﻟﻤﻮاﻓﻘﺔ ﻟﯿﺲ اﻟﻤﺮﯾﺾ، ﻓﻘﻢ ﺑﻜﺘﺎﺑﺔ اﻻﺳﻢ ﺑﺄﺣﺮف واﺿﺤﺔ وﻧﻮع اﻟﺴﻠﻄﺔ اﻟﻤﺨﻮﻟﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﺘﻮﻗﯿﻊ. ﯾﻨﺒﻐﻲ ﺗﻘﺪﯾﻢ وﺛﺎﺋﻖ داﻋﻤﺔ ﻓﻲ وﻗﺖ اﻟﻄﻠﺐ. اﻻﺳﻢ/اﻟﺴﻠﻄﺔ: *ﻓﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ اﻟﺬي ﯾُﺴﺒﺐ ﻣﺮض اﻹﯾﺪز. ﯾﺤﻤﻲ ﻗﺎﻧﻮن وﻻﯾﺔ ﻧﯿﻮﯾﻮرك ﻟﻠﺼﺤﺔ اﻟﻌﺎﻣﺔ اﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﺘﻲ ﻗﺪ ﺗﺆدي ﺑﺼﻮرة ﻣﻨﻄﻘﯿﺔ إﻟﻰ اﻟﺘﻌﺮف ﻋﻠﻰ ﺷﺨﺺ ﻣﺎ ﺑﺼﻔﺘﮫ ﻣﺼﺎﺑًﺎ ﺑﺄﻋﺮاض أو ﻋﺪوى ﻓﯿﺮوس ﻧﻘﺺ اﻟﻤﻨﺎﻋﺔ اﻟﺒﺸﺮﯾﺔ واﻟﻤﻌﻠﻮﻣﺎت اﻟﻤﺘﻌﻠﻘﺔ ﺑﺒﯿﺎﻧﺎت اﻻﺗﺼﺎل اﻟﺨﺎﺻﺔ ﺑﺎﻟﺸﺨﺺ. ﻟﻼﺳﺘﺨﺪام اﻟﻤﻜﺘﺒﻲ ﻓﻘﻂ :رﻗﻢ اﻟﺴﺠﻞ اﻟﻄﺒﻲ : ﺗﻢ اﻻﺳﺘﻼم : / / اﻷﺣﺮف اﻷوﻟﻰ:


授權使用與披露受保護的健康資訊 (PHI) 之指示 1. 完成此表單上的所有部分。不接受未完成的表單。 2. 列出向您提供記錄的提供者/實體並按下表的說明提交。 3. 如果要加入酒精/藥物治療、心理健康治療、基因資訊或保密 HIV 相關資訊，則在第一項下各個相關類型旁簽署姓名首字母。 • 酒精或藥物治療資訊是指來自酒精/藥物治療計畫的任何資訊。 • 心理健康治療資訊是指可識別受紐約州法律保護的心理健康患者身分的臨床記錄或臨床資訊。 • 保密 HIV 相關資訊是指顯示您曾有 HIV 相關檢測、感染或疾病（包括 AIDS），或曾接觸 HIV 的資訊。這包括陰性結果。 • 基因資訊是指診斷是否存在與基因疾病或殘障相關的遺傳變異傾向的實驗室測試，包括 DNA 圖譜分析。 完成請求之前會提供費用估計（如果有）。 場所 地址 電話號碼 Tisch, Kimmel, Hassenfeld Children's Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, Ambulatory Care Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department 親自到場：550 First Avenue, Lobby, NY, NY 10016 郵寄：One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 212 263 5490 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital HIM Department 親自到場：380 2nd Avenue, Suite 640 NY, NY 10003 郵寄：301 E 17th St, NY, NY 10003 212 598 6790 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYU Langone Hospital Long Island HIM Department 親自到場：Admitting Office Main Lobby 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 郵寄：200 Old Country Road, Suite SW 201 Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 2515，選項 4 Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 160 E 34th Street NY, NY 10016 212 731 6180 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer CenterPerlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 120 Mineola Blvd, 6th Floor Mineola, NY 11501 516 633 8250 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn HIM Department 150 55th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 718 630 7125 NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practices (FGP) 直接前往個別辦公室 直接聯絡個別辦公室 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Marilyn Vientos, Director FHC Network Operations FHCPatientRelations@nvulangone.org 直接聯絡個別辦公室 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Certified Home Health Agency (CHHA) NYU Langone Hospital Long Island CHHA 290 Old Country Road Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 8000 Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice Attn:Practice Manager 215 54th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 929 455 2099 Radiology Films/Images (放射科膠片/影像) Tisch：560 1st Ave, 2nd Floor, NY, NY 10006 骨科醫院：301 East 17th St, Suite 600/6th Floor, NY, NY 10003 FGP 放射科：NYU Langone Health Radiology Medical Records, 650 First Avenue, 4th Floor, NY, NY 10016 所有其他地點：直接前往影像研究的地點 Tisch：212 263 5227 骨科：212 598 6373 FGP：212 263 7108 其他：直接聯絡個別辦公室 Long Island Community Hospital (LICH) Long Island Community Hospital HIM Department 101 Hospital Road, Patchogue, NY 11772 631 654 7710 第 1 頁，共 2 頁 （2019 年 8 月） NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health 授權使用與披露受保護的健康資訊 (PHI) 患者姓名 患者出生日期 電話號碼 患者住址 我，或我的授權代表，要求根據此表單的說明披露與我的護理和治療相關的健康資訊。我理解： 1. 除非我提供明確許可，否則不得共享有關酒精/藥物治療、心理健康治療、基因檢測的資訊，和/或 HIV* 相關保密資訊。在下方簽署我的姓名首字母縮寫，即表示我特別授權將此類資訊披露給此表單上指示的人員。 酒精或藥物治療資訊（酒精/藥物治療計畫的記錄） 心理健康治療資訊（需要額外授權的心理療法註釋除外） 基因檢測資訊 HIV/AIDS 相關資訊（如應法律要求披露，須於披露此類資訊時註明禁止再披露的相關聲明） 2. 除上面列出的特殊類型資訊外，因為此授權而共享的資訊可由被接收者再次共享，且不再受聯邦或州法律的保護。除非聯邦或州法律允許，否則即使我授權共享 HIV 相關資訊，接收者也不能在未獲得我許可的情況下共享此類資訊。我可以要求取得在沒有授權的情況下得以接收或使用我的 HIV 相關資訊的人員名單。如果我因 HIV 相關資訊遭公佈或披露而受到歧視，我可以透過 (212) 480 2493 聯絡紐約州人權處 (New York State Division of Human Rights) 或透過 (212) 306 7450 聯絡紐約市人權委員會 (New York City Commission of Human Rights)。以上機構負責保障我的權利。 3. 我可書面通知接收我提交表單的提供者/實體撤銷此授權（依據說明頁中的地址）。此撤銷將生效，但是 NYU Langone Health 和/或 Long Island Community Hospital（「LICH」）已據此授權所行之事不受限制。 4. 簽署此授權書是自願的。除部分特殊限制情況下，NYU Langone Health 或 LICH 不得以我是否簽署此授權書作為獲得治療、付款、投保健康計畫的條件，或是作為獲得福利的資格。 5. 如果我索取放射科膠片原件，我理解 NYU Langone Health 不會保留任何此膠片（類比）複本。我免除 NYU Langone Health 因維護我的影像記錄而承擔的所有責任。 您想要對其披露資訊之提供者/實體的名稱和地址（見說明頁）： 第 2 頁，共 2 頁 （2019 年 8 月） NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU Grossman School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health 資訊披露的目的： □ 應我要求 □ 持續護理 □ 其他（請說明，包括是否為政府福利或計畫所需）：_______________________________________________________________ 接收此資訊的人士： □ 自己 □ 其他人 （姓名；收取資訊時所需的身分證件）： _____________________________________________________ 表單/格式（可能需收取費用；披露前會提供預估費用）： □ 紙本郵寄至： ______________________________________________________________________________________________ □ 收取，紙本 □ MyChart（60 天內可供下載） □ 傳真（號碼）：_________________________________□ CD/DVD □ USB □ 安全電子郵件（30 天內可供存取/下載）： _______________________________________________________________________ □ 其他： ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 要披露的資訊說明： □ 上述提供者/實體提供的完整醫療記錄 □ 與以下日期相關的記錄： ____________________________________________________________________________________ □ 放射科報告（列出檢查類型和日期）： _________________________________________________________________________ □ 放射科膠片/影像（列出檢查類型和日期）：_____________________________________________________________________ □ 與以下日期相關資訊的摘要（總結）： _________________________________________________________________________ □ 由非 NYU Langone Health 提供者傳送到上述提供者/實體，並由 NYU Langone Health 保存以在我的護理中使用的記錄 □ 其他（例如帳單記錄；知情同意書）： _________________________________________________________________________ 除非此處另有說明（具體事件或日期），否則授權將於簽名日期起一 (1) 年後終止： 我的所有問題（如有）均已得到回答。此外，如果 NYU Langone Health 和/或 LICH 要求我填寫此表單，我已獲得此表單的複本。 簽名︰ 日期： 時間：上午/下午 （患者或獲授權簽名的人員） 如果同意授權者非患者本人，請正楷書寫姓名並註明簽名授權類型。 如院方提出要求，應提供證明文件。 姓名/授權： *導致 AIDS 的人類免疫缺乏病毒。《紐約州公共衛生法》(New York State Public Health Law) 保護可合理識別有 HIV 癥狀或感染的人的資訊以及與此人相關的聯絡資訊。 僅限辦公室使用：MRN： 已收到： / / 姓名首字母縮寫：


Otorizasyon pou Itilize ak Pataje Enfòmasyon Sante Pwoteje (Protected Health Information, PHI) Enstriksyon yo 1. Ranpli tout seksyon nan fòm sa a. Nou p ap aksepte fòm ki pa fin ranpli nèt. 2. Mete non ajans/enstitisyon w ap mande dosye nan men li (yo) epi soumèt li (yo) jan yo di sa nan tablo ki anba a. 3. Si sipoze genyen enfòmasyon konsènan Tretman pou Alkòl/Dwòg, Tretman pou Pwoblèm Mantal, Enfòmasyon jenetik, oswa enfòmasyon sekrè ki gen pou wè ak VIH, mete inisyal nou akote chak kalite enfòmasyon anba nimewo an. • Enfòmasyon konsènan Tretman pou Alkòl/Dwòg vle di nenpòt enfòmasyon ki sòti nan yon pwogram tretman alkòl/dwòg. • Enfòmasyon konsènan Tretman Pou Pwoblèm Mantal vle di dosye klinik oswa enfòmasyon klinik ki gen tandans idantifye pasyan sante mantal, ki gen pwoteksyon sou Lwa Eta New York. • Enfòmasyon sekrè ki gen pou wè ak VIH vle di nenpòt enfòmasyon ki montre ou te fè yon tès pou VIH, enfeksyon, oswa maladi (tankou SIDA), oswa ou te pran kontak ak VIH. Sa gen rezilta negatif ladan yo tou. • Enfòmasyon jenetik vle di nenpòt tès nan laboratwa pou dyagnostike prezans yon varyasyon jenetik ki gen pou wè ak yon predispozisyon pou yon maladi oswa andikap jenetik, tankou analiz pwofil ADN. Y ap ba ou yon estimasyon frè yo, si genyen, avan ou fini ak demand lan. Sit Adrès Nimewo Telefòn Tisch, Kimmel, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, Ambulatory Care Center NYU Langone Health HIM Department Pou vizit an pèsòn: 550 First Avenue, Lobby, NY, NY 10016 Atravè lapòs: One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 212 263 5490 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital HIM Department Pou vizit an pèsòn: 380 2nd Avenue, Suite 640 NY, NY 10003 Atravè lapòs: 301 E 17th St, NY, NY 10003 212 598 6790 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYU Langone Hospital Long Island HIM Department Pou vizit an pèsòn: Biwo Admisyon an Antre Prensipal la 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 Atravè lapòs: 200 Old Country Road, Suite SW 201 Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 2515, opsyon 4 Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 160 E 34th Street NY, NY 10016 212 731 6180 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center Perlmutter Cancer Center HIM Department 120 Mineola Blvd, 6th Floor Mineola, NY 11501 516 633 8250 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn HIM Department 150 55th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 718 630 7125 NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practices (FGP) Ale nan biwo a dirèkteman Kontakte biwo endividyèl la dirèkteman Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Marilyn Vientos, Direktris Fonksyònman Rezo FHC yo FHCPatientRelations@nvulangone.org Kontakte biwo endividyèl la dirèkteman NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Certified Home Health Agency (CHHA) Marilyn Vientos, Director FHC Network Operations 290 Old Country Road Mineola, NY 11501 516 663 8000 Pratik Dantè (Dental Practice) Southwest Brooklyn Attn: Manadjè Pratik (Practice Manager) 215 54th Street Brooklyn, NY 11220 929 455 2099 Fim/Imaj Radyoloji (Radiology Films/Images) Tisch: 560 1st Ave, 2nd Floor, NY, NY 10006 Lopital Òtopedik (Orthopedic Hospital): 301 East 17th St, Suite 600/6th Floor, NY, NY 10003 Radyoloji FGP: Rejis Medikal sou Radyoloji (Radiology Medical Records) NYU Langone Health yo, 650 First Avenue 4th Floor New York, NY 10016 Tout lòt kote: dirèkteman kote yo fè etid imajri an Tisch: 212 263 5227 Òtopedik: 212 598 6373 FGP: 212 263 7108 Lòt: kontakte biwo endividyèl a dirèkteman Long Island Community Hospital (LICH) Long Island Community Hospital HIM Department 101 Hospital Road, Patchogue, NY 11772 631 654 7710 Paj 1 sou 2 (08/19) NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health OTORIZASYON POU ITILIZE AK PATAJE ENFÒMASYON SANTE PWOTEJE (PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION, PHI) Non Pasyan an Dat Nesans Pasyan an Nimewo Telefòn Adrès Pasyan an Mwen menm, oswa reprezantan otorize mwen, mande pou pataje enfòmasyon sante konsènan swen ak tretman mwen jan li dekri nan fòm sa a. Mwen konprann: 1. Yo pa pral pataje enfòmasyon konsènan TRETMAN POU ABI ALKÒL/DWÒG, TRETMAN POU PWOBLÈM MANTAL, TÈS JENETIK, ak/oswa ENFÒMASYON SEKRÈ KI GEN POU WÈ AK VIH amwenske mwen bay pèmisyon pou sa espesyalman. Depi mwen mete inisyal mwen anba a, mwen bay otorizasyon espesyalman pou pataje enfòmasyon sa yo ak moun non li, oswa non yo, endike sou fòm sa a. Enfòmasyon Sou Tretman pou Alkòl oswa Dwòg (dosye nan pwogram pou tretman alkòl/dwòg) Enfòmasyon sou Tretman Sante Mantal (sof pou nòt sikoterapi ki ka bezwen plis otorizasyon) Enfòmasyon Sou Tès Jenetik Enfòmasyon ki gen pou wè ak VIH/SIDA (pou patajeenfòmasyon sa a fòk genyendeklarasyon nesesè konsènan entèdiksyonpou re pataje li lè lalwa egzije sa) 2. Sòf pou kalite enfòmasyon espesyal ki endike anwo a, moun ki resevwa enfòmasyon yo pataje gras ak otorizasyon sa a kapab pataje yo ankò epi lè sa a yo p ap gen pwoteksyon lwa federal oswa eta. Amwenske lwa federal oswa eta pèmèt sa, si mwen ap bay pèmisyon pou pataje enfòmasyon ki gen pou wè ak VIH, moun ki resevwa enfòmasyon an pa gendwa pataje li san pèmisyon mwen. Mwen ka mande yon lis moun ki ka resevwa oswa ki ka itilize enfòmasyon ki asosye avèk VIH mwen san otorizasyon mwen. Si yo fè diskriminasyon kont mwen paske yo te pataje oswa divilge enfòmasyon ki gen pou wè ak VIH, mwen kapab kontakte Divizyon Dwa Moun Eta New York nan 212 480 2493 oswa Komisyon Dwa Moun New York nan 212 306 7450. Ajans sa yo responsab pou pwoteje dwa mwen yo. 3. Pou anile otorizasyon sa a, mwen kapab ekri founisè/enstitisyon mwen te bay fòm nan (nan adrès ki ekri sou paj enstriksyon an). Anilasyon sa a ap vin an vigè, eksepte nan ka kote NYU Langone Health ak/oswa Long Island Community Hospital (“LICH”) te deja konte sou otorizasyon sa a. 4. Se si ou vle pou ou siyen otorizasyon sa a. NYU Langone Health oswa LICH kapab pa jere kesyon tretman, pèman, enskripsyon nan plan sante, oswa kalifikasyon pou avantaj si mwen siyen oswa mwen refize siyen otorizasyon sa a, eksepte nan kèk sikonstans limite. 5. Si m ap mande fim radyoloji orijinal yo, mwen konprann pa gen okenn kopi fim (analòg) NYU Langone Health kenbe. Mwen ap retire tout responsablite sou do NYU Langone Health pou dosye imaj mwen yo l ap konsève yo. Non ak adrès Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante/ Antite ou vle pataje enfòmasyon (gade nan paj enstriksyon an): Paj 2 sou 2 (08/19) NYU Langone Health NYU Langone Hospitals Family Health Centers @NYU Langone NYU School of Medicine Long Island Community Hospital @NYU Langone Health Rezon pou pataje enfòmasyon yo: □ Lè mwen mande sa □ Pou kontinye ban m swen □ Lòt (tanpri eksplike, tankou si se pou yon avantaj oswa pwogram leta): ___________________________________ Moun k ap resevwa enfòmasyon sa yo: □ Mwen menm □ Lòt (non moun nan, l ap bezwen yon pyès idantite pou pran li): _____________________ Fòm/Fòma (kapab gen frè; y ap ba ou yon estimasyon avan yo bay li): □ Voye papye pa lapòs bay: ________________________________________________________________ □ Pou vin chèche, sou papye □ MyChart (disponib pou telechaje pou 60 jou) □ Nimewo Faks: ___________________________ □ CD/DVD □ USB □ Imèl Sekirize (disponib pou aksè/telechaje pandan 30 jou): ____________________________________________ □ Lòt: _________________________________________________________________________________ Deskripsyon enfòmasyon pou pataje yo: □ Tout dosye medikal ki nan men ajans/enstitisyon ki anwo a □ Dosye ki gen pou wè ak dat sa yo: _________________________________________________________ □ Rapò radyoloji (mete kalite tès la ak dat la): _______________________________________________________ □ Fim/imaj radyoloji (mete kalite tès la ak dat la): ____________________________________________________ □ Rezime (apèsi) enfòmasyon pou dat sa yo: __________________________________________________ □ Dosye ajans ki pa NYU Langone Health te voye bay ajans/enstitisyon ki anwo a epi NYU Langone Health te kenbe pou itilize nan kad swen mwen yo □ Lòt (tankou dosye bòdwo, fòm konsantman) ________________________________________________________ : Otorizasyon an ap fini nan yon (1) lane apre dat yo siyen li an, amwenske dat la ekri la (dat oswa evènman espesifik): Yo te reponn kesyon mwen yo, si mwen te genyen. Epitou, yo te ban mwen oswa ofri mwen yon kopi nan fòm sa a si NYU Langone Health ak/oswa LICH te mande mwen ranpli fòm sa a. Siyati: Dat: Lè: AM/PM (Pasyan oswa moun ki gen otorizasyon pou siyen) Si moun k ap bay konsantman an se pa pasyan an, ekri non li an lèt detache ak kalite otorite li pou siyen. Ou sipoze bay dokiman sipò yo nan moman w ap fè demann nan. Non/Otorite: * Viris Iminodefisyans Imen ki lakòz SIDA. Lwa Eta New York sou Sante Piblik pwoteje enfòmasyon ki kapab idantifye yon fason rezonab yon moun kòm moun ki gen sentòm VIH oswa enfeksyon ak enfòmasyon konsènan kontak yon moun. Seksyon sa a se pou biwo a itilize sèlman: MRN: Resevwa: / / Inisyal:


What’s new in the NTM treatment guidelines?Ashwin Basavaraj, MD, FCCP, ATSFAssistant Professor of MedicineSection Chief, Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep MedicineBellevue Hospital CenterNYU Grossman School of MedicineOctober 28, 2020Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep MedicineFinancial Disclosures•Consultant: Insmed, Hill Rom•Advisory Board: Insmed, Hill Rom•Clinical trial: Hill Rom22007 NTM guidelines2020 NTM guidelines2 societies•American Thoracic Society•Infectious Disease Society of America4 societies•American Thoracic Society•Infectious Disease Society of America•European Respiratory Society•European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases3•22 PICO questions and 31 recommendations•Focused on MAC, M.abscessus, M.kansasii, and M.xenopi4Diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease•Remains the same for the 2007 and 2020 guidelines•Require both clinical and radiographic criteria for NTM•Exclusion of other diagnosis•Microbiologic criteria:1.Positive culture results from at least two separate sputum samples, or2.Positive culture from at least one bronchial wash or lavage, or3.Transbronchial or other lung biopsy with mycobacterial histologic features and positive culture for NTM or biopsy showing mycobacterial histologic features and one or more sputum or bronchial washings that are culture positive for NTM5Treatment of NTM pulmonary disease•In patients who meet diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease, we suggest initiation of treatment rather than watchful waiting, especially in the setting of positive AFB smears and/or cavitary disease (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).6Progression of NTM Pulmonary DiseaseIn Those Who Meet ATS/IDSA Diagnostic Criteria488 with MAC PD(per ATS)551 with MAC PD (per ATS)62.Progressed 58.Treated41.No treatment23. Stable51.52. Spontaneouslyculture convertedHwang JA et al. Eur Respir J. 2017 Byoung SK et al. Resp Med. 2019Who to Treat?Risk Factors Associated with ProgressionHost/Demographic Factors• Male gender• Older age• Presence of comorbidities• Low body mass indexLaboratory Factors• Elevated inflammatory indices (ESR, CRP)• Anemia• HypoalbuminemiaRadiographic Factors• Fibrocavitary• Extent of diseaseMicrobial Factors• Bacterial load• SpeciesHwang JA et al. Eur Respir J. 2017 Kwon BS et al. Resp Med. 2019Moon SM et al. Resp Med. 2019•For patients with MAC or m.abscessus, we suggest susceptibility based treatment for macrolides and amikacin (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).9Antimicrobial AgentMIC, ug/mLCommentsSIRFirst LineClarithromycin≤ 816*≥ 32Class drug for macrolidesAmikacin (IV)≤ 1632≥64Amikacin(liposomal inhaled)≤ 64 ≥ 128Woods et al, CLSI Supplement, 2018.Treatment of macrolide susceptible MAC •We recommend a 3 drug regimen that includes a macrolide over a 3 drug regimen without a macrolide (strong recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).10Griffith DE et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2006 Wallace R et al. Chest. 2014Jeong BH et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015Koh WJ et al. Eur Respir J. 2017Moon SM et al. Eur Respir J. 2016Morimoto K et al. Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2016Treatment of macrolide susceptible MAC •We suggest azithromycin based treatment regimens rather than clarithromycin based regimens (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).•We suggest a treatment regimen with at least 3 drugs (including a macrolide and ethambutol) over a regimen with 2 drugs (a macrolide and ethambutol) (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).11Macrolide susceptible MAC•In patients with noncavitary nodular/bronchiectatic macrolide susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a 3 times a week macrolide based regimen rather than a daily macrolide based regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).•In patients with cavitary or severe/advanced nodular bronchiectasis macrolide susceptible MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest a daily macrolide based regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).12Inhaled liposomal amikacin•In patients with newly diagnosed MAC pulmonary disease, we suggest neither inhaled amikacin (parental) nor amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) be used as part of the initial treatment regimen (conditional recommendation, very low certainty in estimates of effect).•In patients with MAC pulmonary disease who have failed therapy after at least 6 months of guideline based therapy, we recommend addition of ALIS to the treatment regimen rather than a standard oral regimen, only (strong recommendation, moderate certainty in estimates of effect).1314Griffith et al, AM J Resp Crit Care Med, 2018MACMacrolide sensitiveNoYesDAILYRifampinEthambutolOther drugClofazimineMoxifloxacinBedaquilineInh. amikacinOther drugs?Add IV AmikacinDuration: 12 mos culture negativity3X/weekAzithromycin*RifampinEthambutolDAILYAzithromycin*RifampinEthambutolCavities PresentNoYesTreatment of Pulmonary Mycobacterium aviumComplexGriffith DE et al. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2007* clarithromycin is an alternativeMajor points•Diagnostic criteria for NTM pulmonary disease remains the same.•Treatment may be preferred over watchful waiting, specifically in those who have risk factors for progression.•Azithromycin is preferred over clarithromycin.•Inhaled liposomal amikacin is approved for those with refractory MAC.•Susceptibilities can help direct treatment in NTM.16THANK YOU!17ReferencesDaley et al. Treatment of nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease: an official ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA clinical practice guideline. EurRespir J. 2020 Jul 7;56(1):2000535. doi: 10.1183/13993003.00535 2020. Print 2020 Jul. Griffith DE, et al. An official ATS/IDSA statement:diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of nontuberculous mycobacterial disease. Am J RespirCrit Care Med. 2007,Feb 15;175(4):367 416.Griffith DE et al. Clinical and molecular analysis of macrolide resistance in Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2006;174:928 934.Griffith DE et al. Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension for Treatment Refractory Lung Disease Caused by Mycobacterium avium Complex (CONVERT). A Prospective, Open Label, Randomized Study. AM J Resp Crit Care Med. 2018 Dec 15;198(12):1559 1569. Jeong BH et al. Intermittent antibiotic therapy for nodular bronchiectatic Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015;191:96 103.Koh WJ et al. Outcomes of Mycobacterium avium complex lung disease based on clinical phenotype. Eur Respir J. 2017;50.Morimoto K et al. Macrolide Resistant Mycobacterium avium Complex Lung Disease: Analysis of 102 Consecutive Cases. Ann Am ThoracSoc. 2016;11:1904Wallace R et al. Macrolide/Azalide therapy for nodular/bronchiectatic mycobacterium avium complex lung disease. Chest. 2014;146:276 282.Woods GL, et al. Performance standards for susceptibility testing of mycobacteria, nocardia ssp, and other aerobic actinomycetes. CLSI supplement M62.


SportsPerformanceCenterContact UsCall us at 646 501 7109 or emailsportsperformancecenter@nyulangone.orgtoschedule an appointment.NYULangoneOrthopedicCenter333East38thStreet,5thFloorNewYork, NY 10016What’s Included: Kick off the program with a one on one running assessment! This will guide your training program by identifying the specific areas for you to work on for warm ups, strength and crosstraining as well as defining your individualized running program! Running Analysis We record a high definition video of your running from the front, back, and sides, and then use motion analysis software to determine how your running mechanics affect your performance. Aerobic Capacity Test (VO2max) The aerobic capacity test (VO2max) tells you the maximal rate at which your heart and lungs are able to provide oxygen to exercising muscles, and how much work your muscles are able to do while using that oxygen as the primary energy source. It is the leading indicator of aerobic fitness and health status. Following testing, you’ll learn just how efficient you are at using energy supplies for a long run, ride, or swim. You’ll also discover which energy systems you need to work on to improve your performance. Lactate Profile The lactate threshold test can help you perfect your training by determining baseline fitness and training zones to improve performance, and by tracking your training program efficacy. This will define your zone2 , tempo, threshold and interval training zones. Personalized Programming Each participant receives a detailed summary and analysis of the above test results and an extensive report with thorough, customized recommendations based on range of motion, stability, mobility and strength needs as well as biomechanic cues and drills. Join us for interactive seminars on training programming, progressions and injury prevention as well as fueling, hydration and race day prep! Enjoy weekly strength and conditioning classes to build a strong body for running efficiently, safely and successfully! Experts will take runners through a research based exercise program to target key muscles and joints proven to improve running mechanics and economy. This small group training will incorporate strengthening exercises, conditioning drills, and running form instruction. Classes: Tu/Thu 7pm


Policy #: 11.04.04 Effective Date: 01/01/2022 Page: 1 of 4 Revenue Cycle Operations General Billing and Collection Guidelines Policy Supersedes: SEE DOCUMENT LIBRARY PURPOSE This policy provides guidelines to ensure compliance for Revenue Cycle Operations Billing and Collecting Practices for patient accounts receivable. This policy applies to: NYU Langone Health X NYU Langone Hospitals (NYULH) NYU School of Medicine (NYUSOM) POLICY The policy of NYU Langone Hospitals (NYU) is to ensure compliance for regulatory, non regulatory and fiscally sound practices for billing and collection of patient accounts receivable that maximize collections of amounts due the organization in a manner consistent with the goal of providing high caliber patient centered care. Hospital Billing and Collection Practices Statement of Principles and Guidelines NYU strives to provide medically necessary care to patients regardless of their ability to pay. This Policy covers all medically necessary services at NYU including those set forth below. For purposes of this policy, medically necessary services shall be determined in accordance with Medicare guidelines:  Inpatient services  Emergency care  Clinic services  Ambulatory surgery  Referred outpatient services (e.g., Clinical Cancer Center services)  Ancillary services (e.g., laboratory and radiology services) This Policy does not cover billing and collection for:  Family Health Centers (FHC) services at NYU Langone (please refer to the Sliding Fee Discount Program)  Professional services provided by physicians affiliated with or employed by NYU  Providers who bill separately for their services Policy #: 11.04.04 Effective Date: 01/01/2022 Page: 2 of 4 Revenue Cycle Operations General Billing and Collection Guidelines Policy Supersedes: SEE DOCUMENT LIBRARY  Services provided by independent contractors that include:  Private duty nurses and home care services  Ambulance services  Discretionary charges such as:  Private room differential charges  Self Pay patients with no insurance in the market seeking elective services and with income and resource levels above discounted levels specified in Charity Care and Financial Assistance Policy (i.e. “shoppers”): see NYU Langone Hospitals Self Pay Patient Discount Policy  Self Pay patients with insurance but who seek elective services at NYU out of network and insurance will not pay (physician may or may not participate)  Self Pay patients with insurance who participate with NYU but seek non medically necessary or non covered services (e.g. Cosmetic Surgery) Helping Patients with Payment for Hospital Care Communicating Effectively  Patients will be informed of the Hospital's Charity Care and Financial Assistance Policy by conspicuous signage and informational pamphlets in the registration and intake areas; Emergency Department After Visit Summary information; information distributed in the admission package; community outreach; and responses to direct inquiries  All Hospital bills and statements will include a statement that if the patient is unable to pay the bill, he or she might be eligible for financial assistance and how to obtain further information  All Collection Agency bills and statements will include a statement that if the patient is unable to pay the bill, he or she might be eligible for financial assistance and how to obtain further information  Applications and pamphlets for financial assistance will be available in English, Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin), Spanish, Russian, Polish, Arabic, Bengali, Italian, Korean, Farsi, Haitian, Creole, Portuguese, and Greek and translation services will be made available for patients needing such services Helping Patients Qualify for Coverage  The Hospital makes available to the public information on Hospital based Charity Care and Financial Assistance Policies and other known financial assistance programs Policy #: 11.04.04 Effective Date: 01/01/2022 Page: 3 of 4 Revenue Cycle Operations General Billing and Collection Guidelines Policy Supersedes: SEE DOCUMENT LIBRARY  The Hospital communicates this information to patients with conspicuous signage and pamphlets in registration and intake areas in a way that is easy to understand and in the most prevalent languages used by the patients we service  All Hospital bills and statements will include a statement that if the patient is unable to pay the bill, he or she might be eligible for financial assistance and how to obtain further information. The Hospital has understandable, written policies to help patients determine if they qualify for public assistance programs or hospital based assistance programs  All Collection Agency bills and statements will include a statement that if the patient is unable to pay the bill, he or she might be eligible for financial assistance and how to obtain further information. Ensuring Hospital Policies are Applied Accurately and Consistently  The Hospital ensures that all written policies for assisting low income patients are applied consistently  All staff involved in registration, admission, insurance verification, financial counseling, billing, collections and customer services will be trained on the appropriate procedure for applying for the financial assistance program Ensuring Fair Billing and Collection Practices and Compliance with New York State and Federal Regulations  The Hospital is committed to fair billing and collection practices and to compliance with New York State and Federal regulations. Accordingly, the Hospital and/or its employees, representatives, agents and contractors are not permitted to take any of the following actions:  File suits for balances due less than $5,000.00  Defer, deny, or require payment before providing medically necessary care due to nonpayment of a previous bill;  Send an account to collection while an application for Medicaid or financial assistance (which is complete and with all required documentation) is pending;  Send an account to collection for a patient who is determined to be eligible for Medicaid at the time services were rendered and for which services Medicaid payment is available;  Seek payment while a financial assistance or Medicaid application is pending;  Seek foreclosure or a forced sale of the patient's primary residence;  File property liens absent extraordinary circumstances; Policy #: 11.04.04 Effective Date: 01/01/2022 Page: 4 of 4 Revenue Cycle Operations General Billing and Collection Guidelines Policy Supersedes: SEE DOCUMENT LIBRARY  Freeze a patient's bank account or garnish a patient's payroll check absent extraordinary circumstances;  Pursue any action which would cause or prevent the patient from paying his/her normal monthly rent, utility or food expenses;  Report to credit bureaus or credit agencies;  Sell a patient’s debt to another party All collection agents engaged by the Hospital will be required: to comply with this policy; seek the Hospital's written consent prior to instituting a legal action for collection; and provide patients information, where appropriate, on how to apply for financial assistance All collection agents engaged by the Hospital will provide monthly reports of their collection efforts All collection agents engaged by the Hospital will attest to their compliance to this policy on an annual basis PROCEDURES See Charity Care and Financial Assistance Policy RESPONSIBLITIES Sr. Director, Revenue Cycle Operations  Monitor compliance with this policy  Or designee, routinely perform an audit of randomly selected patient accounts to ensure that steps are performed in accordance with this policy  Or designee, review policy annually for repeal or amendment, as appropriate


1Which options will make you most comfortable?Environment I would like to limit the number of people in my room while I am in labor I would like to have the lights dimmed during labor I plan to bring in music from home I plan to bring in essential oils/aromatherapy (no flames allowed). I plan to bring in a “focal point” from home I plan to wear my own clothes I would like the room as quiet as possible I would like as few interruptions as possibleThe hospital has free WiFi available.Preferences for Monitoring the Baby Before BirthDepending on your clinical condition, you may require continuous monitoring of your baby’s heart rate. I prefer to have my baby monitored intermittently (not continuous monitoring), as long as it is medically safe to do so If my baby needs to be continuously monitored, I prefer a portable monitor (if available, and if my condition permits me to move freely)Preferences for Cervical Examination I prefer as few cervical exams as possible, although I understand that periodic cervical exams may be medically necessaryPreferences for Food and Fluids I prefer to keep myself hydrated by drinking fluids. I would like to avoid intravenous (IV) fluids unless it is medically necessary I do not mind receiving intravenous hydration during labor I would like to eat lightly during laborLabor Preferences For patient safety, we advise having a member of your health care team set up IV access when you arrive. We also advise you to have a consultation with our anesthesia team. This way we can respond quickly to an emergency if one arises. I prefer to labor at home during the early phase of labor, and be admitted to the hospital when I am in active labor I would like to have freedom of movement while I am in labor (walking, standing, sitting, kneeling, using the birth ball, etc.), if safe and possible I prefer to move around or change positions before trying medication to increase my labor progress If labor is progressing normally, I prefer to be patient and let labor proceed on its own without interventions to speed it up I would prefer to wait for the amniotic membrane (bag of waters) to rupture spontaneously I would like to have my IV capped off (saline locked) so that I am free to move around during laborNamePhysicianYour Labor Support Team (please include partner, doula, friends, or relatives who will be present):Pediatrician/Family DoctorDate of BirthDue DatePersonal InformationPlease continue onto page 2Decisions are best made by you, in partnership with your provider, during prenatal visits, well in advance of the time of birth. Here are some common decision points:• whether it’s medically appropriate to wait for labor to begin on its own• whether to be admitted to the hospital in early labor or to wait until active labor• how to monitor your baby’s fetal heart rate • whether to have continuous labor support by a trained caregiver like a doula• how to help manage labor pain and labor progress• how to stay hydrated and maintain stamina (strength) during labor• whether to remain mobile and upright during labor• how to push around the time of birth• what practices to engage in shortly after your baby is born and before you go homeThis is an opportunity to share your values and preferences and make informed decisions together, based on your specific needs. While some women will need very little intervention, women with certain medical conditions may need procedures, such as continuous monitoring or induction of labor, to improve safety and ensure a healthy delivery. Your provider can tell you about the benefits, risks and alternatives of the decisions you may face during labor and birth. This form should go with you to the hospital to be shared with your care team and reviewed as labor progresses. Please note that your preferences and wishes may not be possible and may have to change if medical needs arise in order to ensure a safe and healthy birth for you and your baby.My Preferences for Labor, Birth and Postpartum ExperienceA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAM2Please continue onto page 3Newborn Care Preferences I would like all newborn procedures and medications explained to me before they are carried out or administered by the staff If my baby needs to leave my side for any reason, I would like ____________________ to accompany my baby as much as possible I would like to be present for my baby’s first bath I would like to delay my baby’s first bath I plan to exclusively breastfeed my baby I may have questions about breastfeeding or need help getting off to a good start If necessary for my baby, I would like help learning how to hand express or pump my own breastmilk If my baby needs to be fed anything other than my breastmilk for a medical reason, I would like to be informed first If my baby needs additional nutrition, I would like to use donor breastmilk in addition to my own pumped breastmilk If I have a boy, I plan to have him circumcised in the hospitalAfter Delivery PreferencesWe consider the following to decide when it is safe for you to be discharged home:• adequate pain control• no signs of postpartum complications (for example, untreated infection or blood pressure that is not well managed)For some patients, we will recommend discharge home on medications you might not have been taking prior to admission, such as blood thinners to reduce the risk of a life threatening blood clot or blood pressure medication. Your health care team will explain any new medications in detail including indication and side effects. The expected length of hospitalization after a vaginal birth is 1 2 days and after a cesarean birth 2 4 days. I would like to stay in the hospital as briefly as possible I am concerned about how ready I will be for discharge in these expected time framesMy Preferences for Labor, Birth and Postpartum ExperienceA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAMWhich options will make you most comfortable?Preferences for Managing Pain I would like to have the option to use the shower to ease pain I prefer to labor and deliver with no pain medications or epidural Please do not offer me any sort of pain medications. If I decide to use pain medication or an epidural, I will ask for them I plan to use an epidural in active labor to cope with the pain of labor and birth I am considering using medical pain relief, but will decide when I am actually in labor Other: ______________________________________________________Birth PreferencesDepending on your clinical condition you may require continuous monitoring of your baby’s heart rate. The hospital has a variety of labor support resources available including birthing balls and squatting bars. I would like to push in a position of my choosing (squatting, kneeling, side lying, etc.) I would like to follow my own body’s urge to push as much as possible, rather than being directed to push, unless doing so is medically indicated I would like to use a mirror to view the birth of my baby I would like ____________________ to cut the umbilical cord, if safe and possible I would like to have delayed clamping and cutting of the umbilical cord I would like to take my placenta home with me I am planning to use umbilical cord blood banking I would like to avoid episiotomy and if episiotomy is needed, I would like the rationale explained to meCesarean Birth PreferencesOur goal for every woman is to have a healthy birth. When a cesarean birth is necessary, we will continue to consider your preferences as much as possible throughout your stay. Sometimes, emergency situations necessitate a rapid conversation about risks and benefits of cesarean birth. We encourage your participation in the decision for cesarean birth. I would like my partner to stay with me at all times, as much as possible I would like to ask my anesthesiologist if the screen could be lowered so that I can watch the birth of my baby I would like to have an arm left free so that I can touch my baby I would like my baby placed skin to skin with me in the operating room if we are both doing well I would like to hold my baby skin to skin during the recovery period3With the expectation of a healthy outcome for both me and my baby(ies) already in place, my goals for this birth are:Please let us know if you have any religious or cultural practices/traditions that are important to you during childbirth, and what we can do to accommodate these needs.Please describe any additional preferences, concerns about labor and birth, or other information that will help us provide the best possible care to meet your individual needs.I have talked about and shared my labor and birth preferences with my provider during prenatal care visits. I recognize that my preferences and wishes may not be followed just as written and may need to change if medical needs arise in order to ensure a safe and healthy birth for my baby and me.My Preferences for Labor, Birth and Postpartum ExperienceA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAM


1Which options will make you most comfortable?Environment I would like to limit the number of people in my room while I am in labor I would like to have the lights dimmed during labor I plan to bring in music from home I plan to bring in essential oils/aromatherapy (no flames allowed). I plan to bring in a “focal point” from homePreferences for Food and Fluids I prefer to keep myself hydrated by drinking fluids. I would like to avoid intravenous fluids unless it is medically necessary I do not mind receiving intravenous hydration during labor If it is safe for me to do so, I would like to eat lightly during laborLabor Preferences If safe to do so, I prefer to labor at home during the early phase of labor, and be admitted to the hospital when I am in active labor I would like to have freedom of movement while I am in labor (walking, standing, sitting, kneeling, using the birth ball, etc.), if safe and possible I prefer to move around or change positions to improve my labor progress before trying medication to increase my labor progress If labor is progressing normally, I prefer to be patient and let labor proceed on its own without interventions to speed it up I would prefer to wait for the amniotic membrane (bag of waters) to rupture spontaneously. If the need to have my water broken arises, please discuss this with me before breaking my water I would like to have my IV capped off (saline locked) so that I am free to move around during labor, if safe to do soNamePhysicianYour Labor Support Team (please include partner, doula, friends, or relatives who will be present):Pediatrician/Family DoctorDate of BirthDue DatePersonal InformationPlease continue onto page 2My Preferences for Labor and BirthA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAMDecisions are best made by you, in collaboration with your provider, during prenatal visits, well in advance of the time of birth. Here are some common decision points:• whether it’s medically appropriate to wait for labor to begin on its own• whether to be admitted to the hospital in early labor or to wait until active labor• how to monitor your baby’s fetal heart rate • whether to have continuous labor support by a trained caregiver like a doula• how to help manage labor pain and labor progress• how to stay hydrated and maintain stamina (strength) during labor• whether to remain mobile and upright during labor• how to push around the time of birth• what practices to engage in shortly after your baby is born and before you go homeWhile some women will need very little intervention, women with certain medical conditions may need procedures, such as continuous monitoring or induction of labor, to improve safety and ensure a healthy delivery. Your provider can tell you about the benefits, risks and alternatives of the decisions you may face during labor and birth. This is an opportunity to share your values and preferences and make informed decisions together, based on your specific needs. This form should go with you to the hospital to be shared with your care team and reviewed as labor progresses.2Please continue onto page 3My Preferences for Labor and BirthA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAMCesarean Birth PreferencesOur goal for every woman is to have a healthy birth. When a cesarean birth is necessary, we will continue to consider your preferences as much as possible throughout your stay. Sometimes, emergency situations necessitate a rapid conversation about risks and benefits of cesarean birth. We encourage your participation in the decision for cesarean birth. I would like my partner to stay with me at all times, as much as possible I would like to ask my anesthesiologist if the screen could be lowered so that I can watch the birth of my baby If my anesthesiologist determines that it is safe and possible, I would like to have an arm left free so that I can touch my baby I would like my baby placed skin to skin with me in the operating room if we are both doing well, if safe and possible I would like to hold my baby skin to skin during the recovery periodNewborn Care Preferences I would like all newborn procedures and medications explained to me before they are carried out or administered by the staff If my baby needs to leave my side for any reason, I would like ______________________ to accompany my baby as much as possible I would like to be present for my baby’s first bath I would like to delay my baby’s first bath I plan to exlusively breastfeed my baby I may have questions about breastfeeding or need help getting off to a good start If my baby needs to be fed anything other than my breastmilk for a medical reason, I would like to be informed first If necessary for my baby, I would like help learning how to hand express or pump my own breastmilk If I have a boy, I plan to have him circumcisedWhich options will make you most comfortable?Preferences for Managing Pain I would like to have the option to use the shower to ease pain I prefer to labor and deliver with no pain medications or epidural Please do not offer me any sort of pain medications. If I decide to use pain medication or an epidural, I will ask for them I plan to use an epidural in active labor to cope with the pain of labor and birth I am considering using medical pain relief, but will decide when I am actually in labor Other: ______________________________________________________Preferences for Monitoring the Baby I prefer to have my baby monitored intermittently (not continuous monitoring), as long as it is medically appropriate to do so If my baby needs to be continuously monitored, I prefer a portable monitor (if available, and if my condition permits me to move freely)Preferences for Cervical Examination I prefer as few cervical exams as possible, although I understand that periodic cervical exams may be medically necessaryBirth Preferences I would like to push in a position of my choosing (squatting, kneeling, side lying, etc.) I would like to follow my own body’s urge to push as much as possible, rather than being directed to push, unless doing so is medically indicated I would like to use a mirror to view the birth of my baby I would like ______________________ to cut the umbilical cord, if safe and possible If safe and possible, I would like to have delayed clamping and cutting of the umbilical cord I would like to take my placenta home with me I am planning to use umbilical cord blood banking3My Preferences for Labor and BirthA PLAN TO GUIDE DECISION MAKING AND INFORM MY CARE TEAMWith the expectation of a healthy outcome for both me and my baby(ies) already in place, my goals for this birth are:Please let us know if you have any religious or cultural practices/traditions that are important to you during childbirth, and what we can do to accommodate these needs.Please describe any additional preferences, concerns about labor and birth, or other information that will help us provide the best possible care to meet your individual needs.I have talked about and shared my labor and birth preferences with my provider during prenatal care visits. I recognize that my preferences and wishes may not be followed just as written and may need to change if medical needs arise in order to ensure a safe and healthy birth for my baby and me.


Blood Bank 560 First Avenue, TH 4 74, New York, NY 10016 • tel: 212.263.5442 • fax: 212.263.7040 PHYSICIAN OFFICE INSTRUCTIONS FOR AUTOLOGOUS AND DIRECTED BLOOD DONATIONS 1. The physician’s office will complete the New York Blood Center (NYBC) Physician Order form and fax the form to NYBC at 516 334 4936 and to the NYU Blood Bank at 212 263 7040. Failure to appropriately complete the form will lead to a delay in processing. 2. For autologous donations, have the patient read and sign the NYULMC Autologous Donation Policy Statement. For directed donations, have the patient read and sign the NYULMC Directed Donor Policy Statement. Return the signed form to the NYULMC Blood Bank. 3. The NYULMC Blood Bank technician will call the patient to assist them in setting up a collection appointment and receiving their NYBC personal file number. Walk in donations are not allowed. 4. If the patient calls the NYBC directly at 800 439 6876, then they are responsible to call the NYULMC Blood Bank technician at 212 263 5440 and furnish her with their NYBC file number in order to track all donations. 5. Any autologous donor with a cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, pulmonary or hematologic condition must have written medical clearance from his/her physician to donate. The NYBC physician will review the clearance and decide if the patient is authorized to donate. 6. The patient must furnish their directed donor with their NYBC personal file number in order for them to set up an appointment and donate. All directed donors must contact the NYULMC Blood Bank technician to set up an appointment. 7. The patient or their directed donor must bring the NYBC file number, proof of age and/or photo identification when they go to the collection location. 8. The NYBC will inform the attending physician’s office when directed donor units are not available for transfusion to the intended patient. The physician will not be told the reason why it is not available. 9. One week prior to the surgery date, the NYULMC Blood Bank technician will contact NYBC to track the delivery of each unit.


(Rev. 3/2013)Patient InformationName: _______________________________________________________ Patient ID: ______________________________ Menopause Age: Height:(in) ______ Weight:(lb) ______ Gender: o M o F Date of Birth: _______________Ethnicity: _________________________________ Referring Physician: ________________________________________________medical informationNYU Hospitals CenterNYU LANGONE MEDICAL CENTER CENTER FOR WOMEN’S IMAGINGPatient History Questionnaire Date Initiated: ______________1. Have you had a previous hip or vertebral fracture?2. Have you had any fractures during your adult life which did not result from significant trauma (e.g., auto accident)?3. Did either of your parents ever have a hip fracture?4. Do you smoke?5. Have you ever taken Glucocorticoids?6. Do you have rheumatoid arthritis?7. Do you have secondary osteoporosis?8. Do you drink 3 or more alcoholic drinks per day?9. Are you being treated for osteoporosis?10.Have you ever taken any of the following medications:o Y o No Y o No Y o No Y o No Y o No Y o No Y o No Y o N__________o Y o No Y o No Y o No Actonel (i.e. risedronate)o Evista (i.e. raloxifene)o Fosamax (i.e, alendronate)o Miacalcin (i.e. calcitonin)o Reclast (i.e. zoledronate)o Vitamin Do Other: _______________________________o Boniva (i.e. ibandronate)o Forteo (i.e. parathyroid hormone)o HRT (i.e. estrogen/hormone therapy)o Protelos (i.e. strontium ranelate)o Prolia (i.e. denosumab)o Calciumo Anorexia or Bulimiao Asthma or Emphysemao End stage renal diseaseo Hyperparathyroidismo Other: _______________________________o Any Seizure Disorderso Cancero Inflammatory bowel diseaseso Hysterectomy11. Do you have any of the following medical conditions:12.What was your maximum height (Inches)?13.Do you perform weight bearing exercise regularly?14.Do you regularly consume dairy products?15.Do you drink caffeinated beverages?In female:16.At what age did your period start?17. Are you premenopausal?18.How many full term pregnancies have you had?19.Have you ever missed your period for more than 6 months in a row? (not including pregnancy or menopause)?__________o Y o N__________o Y o N


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Breach Notification Policy NYU Langone Health will investigate all HIPAA and privacy related Incidents and provide timely notification as necessary and appropriate under federal and state laws to: • affected individuals, • the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (Office for Civil Rights), • media outlets, • credit reporting agencies, and • other federal or state agencies, including the New York State Office of Attorney General (“NYS AG”) as required. Procedure 1. NYU Langone Health Workforce Members must immediately report known or suspected Incidents to Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). 2. IACERM will take immediate steps to investigate and contain the Incident and mitigate the risk of harm to affected individuals. IACERM may seek assistance from Medical Center Information Technology (“MCIT”), the Office of General Counsel, Security, Human Resources, the Office of Communications, impacted departments or units, and outside consultants as appropriate. 3. In the event the Incident involves possible criminal activity, such as identity theft or theft of valuable NYU Langone Health equipment or proprietary information, IACERM, MCIT, and/or the relevant NYU Langone Health Workforce Member will file a police report or other notification with the appropriate law enforcement division. 4. IACERM will determine whether the Incident qualifies as a Breach under applicable federal and/or state notification laws. • For purposes of HIPAA, an Incident is presumed to be a Breach and notification is necessary unless a low probability exists that Protected Health Information (“PHI”) has been compromised as demonstrated through a risk assessment. • For purposes of New York State Breach notification laws, a security Incident qualifies as a Breach if there is unauthorized access to or acquisition of, or access to or acquisition without valid authorization, of computerized data that compromises the security, confidentiality, or integrity of private information. A Page 2 of 3 risk assessment will be completed for all incidents in compliance with New York State law. • Other states may have different definitions and requirements and any notification requirement will be evaluated by the Privacy Officer in conjunction with the Office of General Counsel. 5. Upon determination of a Breach, IACERM will take all reasonable measures to notify affected individuals. IACERM will notify federal and state agencies, credit reporting agencies, and other individuals as necessary and appropriate. Media outlets will be notified in coordination with the Office of Communications if required or deemed appropriate. All notifications will be made in accordance with regulatory requirements and without unreasonable delay. a. IACERM will engage third parties or vendors in accordance with all NYU Langone Health policies to assist, as needed, in the notification process, including providing credit monitoring services to affected individuals as required. b. Notification to the Office for Civil Rights for Breaches involving 500 or more affected individuals will be made without unreasonable delay but in no event more than 60 days after the date of discovery of the Breach. c. Notification to the Office for Civil Rights for Breaches involving fewer than 500 individuals will be made within 60 days after the end of the calendar year during which the Breach occurred. d. Notification to the NYS AG will be made within five business days of notification to the Office for Civil Rights for all cases reported to the Office of Civil Rights, regardless of whether the breach would have otherwise been reported under the New York State Breach notification laws. 6. IACERM will notify the Office of General Counsel and/or New York University Insurance Department so that any required notifications to insurance carriers can be promptly made. 7. All documentation concerning privacy incidents shall be retained for at least six (6) years by IACERM. 8. IACERM may take additional actions as necessary and appropriate to safeguard PHI and PII and to mitigate harm. This includes, but is not limited to: • providing identity theft protection services to affected individuals, • re training and educating staff members, • implementing or recommending the implementation of controls to prevent further breaches, including technological solutions, and • recommending disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health under guidance from Human Resources, the applicable department, and/or other applicable institutional policies. 9. As part of the required annual compliance training, all Workforce Members will be trained on how to recognize and report Incidents to IACERM. NYU Langone Health will not Page 3 of 3 retaliate against any person who, in good faith, reports a possible Incident, in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy. Related Documents Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions IACERM Breach Notification Standard Operating Procedure IACERM Risk Assessment Standard Operating Procedure Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. Subpart D N.Y. GEN. BUS. § 899 aa, bb, “SHIELD Act” N.J. Stat. Ann§ 56:8 163 66 Conn. Gen. Stat. §36a 701b 73 Pa. Stat. Ann. §§ 2301 2308, 2329 Other state laws as applicable This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


NYU Langone Health (NYULH) Community Service PlanNYULH Center for Study for Asian American Health (CSAAH)NYULHSNAPHRASNAPHRAESL


Brooklyn Arab American CommunityAssessment of Needs and PrioritiesWith support from the NYU Langone Health (NYULH) Community Service Plan and NYULH Center for Study for Asian American Health (CSAAH), a working group was formed made up of local Brooklyn Arab American organizations and teams from NYULH.511Arab American adults living in Brooklyn responded to the surveyOf surveys were conducted in ArabicSurvey PurposeTop Health IssuesBrooklyn Arab American adults selected diabetes, cancer and heart disease as the top health issues facing the community. Top Needed ResourcesBrooklyn Arab American adults selected affordable housing, access to quality medical and dental care, vaping/ hookah prevention, and job opportunities as the top needed resources. Affordable housing optionsAccess to high quality medical careSmoking prevention(Cigarettes, vaping/hookah)Access to high quality dental careJobs/ job trainingAccess to mental health services Programs for the elderly Help enrolling in benefits Substance use treatmentSafety (including family violence resources)Health Care AccessAbout of adults surveyed were unable to get needed medical care in the last year.Barriers to accessing care among those unable to get needed medical care were:DiabetesCancerHeart DiseaseObesity Mental HealthDiet and NutritionAsthma/ Breathing ProblemsWomen's HealthDental Health have or had diabetesTimely cancer screening for breast, cervical and colon cancer are lower than the city have or had high blood pressure had obesity were at risk for current depression experienced food insecurity saw a dentist for regular teeth cleaning in the past year of adults surveyed selected asthma/breathing problems as a health issue of women rated their health as excellent or very goodKey findings describing top health issues and needed resources collected Sept Dec 2019Satisfied32Couldn't afford careTransportation problems1Didn't have time/ took too longThese organizations are here to help Resource GuideNYU Langone Department of Population HealthPreventing chronic diseasesPromoting healthy women, infants & childrenPromoting a healthy & safe environment3 8 3 R a r i t a n Ave n u e , S t a t e n I s l a n d( 3 4 7 ) 6 5 1 7 6 0 3Moroccan American House AssociationProvides Arabic language classes to young childrenAssist newcomers from Morocco to connect with various servicesRefer community members to get legal supportC o m m u n i t y S e r v i c e P l a n (C S P )ny u c s p @ ny u l a n g o n e . o r gCenter for the Study of Asian American Health (CSAAH)rebecca.lee3@nyulangone.orgPromoting population health equity through research, training, and partnershipEnabling community engagement in research Increasing use of community based participatory research principles and data science methodsThese organizations participated in the working group to develop and conduct the survey.Arab Health Initiative at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center6 3 3 3 r d Ave n u e , 4 F l , N e w Yo r kay a s h c @ m s kc c . o r gFamily Health Centers at NYU Langone6 0 2 5 6 t h Ave n u e , B r o o k l y n( 7 1 8 ) 6 3 0 7 0 0 0Primary and preventive health care and supportive services for adults and children, including: Adult, pediatric and adolescent primary careWomen's healthBehavioral healthSupportive services (benefit enrollment, etc.)Early childhood educationLeadership development for adolescents and young adultsServices for older adultsEducational workshops in Arabic and English, including breast cancer, colorectal cancer and general health educationCultural competency training for healthcare professionals who work with Arab AmericansCulturally and linguistically tailored case management and supportive servicesAccessibility to cancer and biometric screenings through the Mammogram Screening Van, Mobile Health Unit and appointment assistanceImmigration legal servicesAdult education & women's empowerment coursesMental health servicesDomestic and gender based violence case managementSocial services (SNAP, HRA, employment, etc.)Insurance enrollment and referral servicesYouth programming and workforce developmentAdvocacy and civic engagement Arab American Family Support Center (AAFSC)Arab American Association of NY (AAANY)6 8 0 3 F i f t h Av e n u e , B r o o k l y ni n f o @ a ra b a m e r i c a n ny. o r g( 7 1 8 ) 7 4 5 3 5 2 31 5 0 C o u r t S t r e e t , 3 r d F l , B r o o k l y ni n f o @ a a f s c ny. o r g( 7 1 8 ) 6 4 3 8 0 0 0Health insurance enrollment assistanceDomestic & gender based violence case managementBenefit navigation support (SNAP, HRA, etc.)ESL classes, citizenship preparation, and legal assistanceCaregiver child bonding circleYoung women empowermentMental health counselingEmergency financial and material assistance


NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn 150 55th Street, Suite LB 2940, Brooklyn, NY 11220 T 718 630 6252 F 718 630 8175 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Financial Assistance Application Enclosed: PROCESS FOR APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE: 1. Complete the enclosed application in its entirety 2. Return the completed application within 30 days to: NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Financial Counseling Services 150 55th Street Suite LB 2940 Brooklyn, NY 11220 3. After all items are received your request will be reviewed and you will be notified in writing of our determination within 30 days IMPORTANT:  This financial assistance application is for Hospital Charges only and does not cover doctor or other professional charges  Private room or other personal item charges are not covered by the Financial Assistance Program  Cosmetic procedure charges are not covered by the Financial Assistance Program  Elective services covered by insurance not accepted by NYU Hospitals Center are not covered by the Financial Assistance Program If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact us at (718)630 6252. Sincerely, Financial Counseling Services YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION Financial Assistance Application (Attachment A) I.Patient DemographicsPatient Name:______________________________________________________________________________________________ (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB) Guarantor Name:____________________________________________________________________________________________ (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB) Address:___________________________________________________________________________________________________ (Street) (City) (State) (Zip code) Home Telephone:_____________________ Work Telephone:______________________ Cell Telephone:____________________ II.Household InformationPatient Marital Status: (Circle One) Married Single Separated Total Number in Household: Spouse & Dependent Name(s): (Attach separate sheet for additional dependents) Date of Birth Social Security Number (NOT REQUIRED) III.Current Employment InformationEmployee Name (Patient, Guarantor, Spouse, or Dependent): Employer Name, Address and Dates of Employment Hire Date: Hire Date: Hire Date: IV.Insurance Information (Attach separate sheets for additional Insurance information)Are you covered by or are you applying for any health insurance (Including Medicaid, Child Health Plus, Essential Plan, or Qualified Health Plan )? YES NO If yes, please explain: (include insurance company name, address, telephone number, policy/group number and subscriber information) V.Other InformationIs treatment the result of an accident or injury? YES NO If Yes, date of accident: Brief description of the accident: Street, City and State of accident: Will a homeowner’s or liability insurance be involved? YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION For Administrative use only Facility________________________ Account #_____________________ Med.Rec#_____________________ For Administrative use only Patient Type _____________________ Amount of W/O $__________________ Method of Calculation ______________ Financial Assistance Application (Attachment B) VI. Financial Statement Enter totals for Patient, Guarantor, Spouse and Dependents: (Add additional sheets as necessary) MONTHLY INCOME: AMOUNT: Gross Wages, Salaries, Tips $ Social Security $ Disability $ Unemployment $ Child Support $ Alimony/Maintenance $ Rental Income $ Property Income $ Pension $ Dividends/Interest $ Other Income (Specify): $ $ $ CERTIFICATION I certify that the above information is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I understand that fraudulent or misleading information will make me ineligible for any financial assistance. I authorize the release of any information needed to verify the information provided and for billing and collections in compliance with applicable federal and state laws. Further, I will make application for any assistance (Medicaid, Medicare, Insurance, etc.) which may be available for payment of my hospital charges, and I will take any action reasonably necessary to obtain such assistance and will assign or pay to the hospital the amount recovered for hospital charges. I understand that this application is made so that the hospital can determine my eligibility for Financial Assistance based on the established criteria on file in the hospital. In addition, I agree to provide additional information as requested in order to determine eligibility. I agree to inform NYU Hospitals of any change in my needs, insurance eligibility, income, property, living arrangements or address as they occur. Signature of Applicant:___________________________________________ Date_________________ Signature of Interviewer:_________________________________________ Date _________________ YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Business Associates Policy NYU Langone Health may engage outside parties to perform functions for or on our behalf. In any case where a third party needs to receive, create, transmit, or maintain Protected Health Information (“PHI”) to perform a service or function for or on behalf of NYU Langone Health, the individual or entity may be a Business Associate (“BA”) and a valid Business Associate Agreement (“BAA”) must be in place prior to the Disclosure (sharing) of any PHI. A BAA must contain certain provisions to be considered valid. The NYU Langone Health template BAA should be used. A use of any other BAA must be reviewed and approved by the Privacy Officer. The template is available from the Privacy Officer, on the Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) intranet site, or in the HIPAA manual on Ellucid. Generally, it is the responsibility of the Department Head, or his/her designee, engaging the third party to ensure that the appropriate BAA is executed. The department is also responsible for periodically reviewing the individual departmental needs with respect to vendors/third parties and the necessity of a BAA. Certain contracts and agreements are processed through specific departments and responsibility lies therein for obtaining a BAA as necessary (e.g., Medical Center Information Technology Contract Management and Sourcing, Supply Chain Management, and Sponsored Programs Administration) are likewise responsible for obtaining BAAs when necessary. All software purchasing agreements must go through Medical Center Information Technology Contract Management and Sourcing. All other purchasing agreements must go through Supply Chain Management. No PHI shall be Disclosed until the BAA is signed by both parties. Procedure 1. The Department Head (or appropriate individual/department as described above) considers whether a BAA is required. • A BAA is generally required when: o the third party creates, receives, maintains, or transmits PHI, and o the third party is performing a function for or on behalf of NYU Langone Health. • A BAA is not required for: Page 2 of 3 o treatment services provided to the patient (e.g., another physician or a reference laboratory). o incidental access to PHI (e.g., janitorial services). o other specific exceptions. • Contact the Privacy Officer at baacompliance@nyulangone.org for assistance as necessary and/or to determine if NYU Langone Health already has a BAA in place with the third party. 2. If the relationship involves electronic data (e.g., transmission, storage, or processing of), the Privacy Officer and MCIT Security should be notified. The Department Head (or appropriate individual/department as described above) is responsible for requesting MCIT Security to complete a third party risk assessment. MCIT Security must approve the use of the vendor prior to any engagement of services. 3. If it is determined that a BAA is required, execute the agreement in accordance with the following: • The NYU Langone Health standard form should be used and the appropriate corresponding box(es) checked, indicating which entities the services will be provided to or on behalf of (e.g., NYU Langone Hospitals/NYU School of Medicine; the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health). • Use of any other BAA (i.e., one provided by the third party) is not permitted unless reviewed and approved by the Privacy Officer. • Alterations or modifications to the NYU Langone Health standard agreement are generally not permitted. The Privacy Officer must approve any vendor requests to alter or modify the BAA prior to execution of the agreement.  The Privacy Officer will consult the Office of Legal Counsel as appropriate. • Only those persons with document signing authority for the corresponding or underlying contract may sign the BAA on behalf of the appropriate NYU Langone Health covered entity. Refer to the Document Singing Authority Policy. 4. The Department Head will forward all non purchasing agreements and associated BAAs, that are not otherwise added to the department’s appropriate Selectica tab, to the Office of Legal Counsel via email to: SelecticaAdmin@nyulangone.org. 5. The Department Head (or appropriate contract specialist/department as indicated above) will forward a fully executed copy of the BAA to the Privacy Officer at baacompliance@nyulangone.org. 6. The fully executed Business Associate Agreement must be retained by: • the department, • as an addendum to the contract, and • the Privacy Officer in the institutional contracts management database (i.e., Selectica). Page 3 of 3 Related Documents Business Associate Agreement Document Signing Authority HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §160.103 45 C.F.R. §164.502(a)(3) 45 C.F.R. §164.504(e) 45 C.F.R. §164.532 45 C.F.R. §164.402 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


The Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Rehabilitation and Prevention Center FAX to (646) 754 9652 REFERRAL FOR OUTPATIENT CARDIAC REHAB Date: ___________________________ Patient Name: ____________________ Sex (Please Circle): F M Patient Date of Birth: ______________ Patient Social Security Number: _________ Telephone Number: Contact 1: (_____)_____ _________ Contact 2: (_____)_____ _________ Patient Address: ________________________________________ ________________________________________ Primary Insurance: __________ Policy Number: __________ Insured Name: _____________ Secondary Insurance: ________ Policy Number: __________ Insured Name: _____________ Indication for Cardiac Rehabilitation (please select ALL that apply) Cardiovascular Diagnosis Onset Date(s) Treating Institution _____ Myocardial Infarction (within 1 year) ____________ ____________________ _____ Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery (within 6 months) ____________ ____________________ _____ Stable Angina (with documentation) ____________ ____________________ _____ Coronary Stents (within 6 months) ____________ ____________________ _____ Valve Repair/Replacement ____________ ____________________ _____Systolic Heart Failure; EF < with optimal medical therapy ____________ ____________________ _____ Other ___________________________________ ____________ ____________________ Cardiovascular Risk Factors: (please select ALL that apply) _____Hypertension _____Hyperlipidemia _____Diabetes _____Obesity _____Smoking _____Sedentary Lifestyle _____Post Menopausal _____Family History Significant Medical/Orthopedic Problems (Please Circle): Yes No Description: _______________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________ ♥ Admission to the program is dependent upon receipt of the most recent ECG, blood lipid results, graded exercise test results (within 3 months) and if appropriate, cardiac catherization report. ♥ Can we schedule your patient for an initial stress test? (Please circle) Yes No ♥ The patient’s enrollment to the program is dependent upon insurance authorization. The patient will continue under your direct clinical care throughout the program. Physician’s Name (Please Print): _________________________________________________ License Number: _________________ UPIN: __________________ NPI: ________________ Office Telephone: _________________ Office Fax: ______________ Physician’s Signature: _________________________________________ The Joan and Joel Smilow Cardiac Rehabilitation Center, 240 East 38th Street, 16th Floor, New York, NY10016, (646) 501 9433/2237 http://nyulangone.org/locations/joan joel smilow cardiac prevention rehabilitation center