Dr. Colby, the CellChek C microscope offers the ability to view any portion of the cornea, even the typically hard-to-see periphery, from endothelium to epithelium. The microscope’s slit-scanning technology enables high-resolution and high-contrast imaging of the corneal layers, she adds. “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking. Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking,” says Dr. Colby. “Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “With its broad imaging capability, the CellChek C is a versatile tool for enhancing our understanding of corneal diseases and the response of the cornea to various surgeries, including Descemet stripping only (DSO) and corneal transplants. Additionally, this device can provide insights into the effect of other eye diseases and surgeries, such as glaucoma or cataract, on the cornea.” Dr. Kathryn A. Colby and members of her research team with the CellChek C. Opportunities for Research From a research perspective, the microscope offers a plethora of new opportunities, one of which is clinical trials. As the director of the NYU Langone Eye Center , Dr. Colby has pioneered many practice-changing trials for some of the most complex corneal diseases in children and adults. ongoing study led by Dr. Colby and her team will compare the CellChek C microscope to the CellChek 20, widely considered the gold standard in specular microscopy. “We have high hopes that CellChek C will outperform the current standard,” she says. “As we collect more data and explore the microscope’s full potential, we look forward to sharing it with the medical community.” VIDEO: The corneal endothelium in a healthy patient, imaged using the CellChek C. VIDEO: The peripheral corneal endothelium in a patient with moderate Fuchs dystrophy, imaged using the CellChek C. Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health , sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss his pioneering work on robotic surgery, running the Department of Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery , and where the future lies in his field. Subscribers can hear the full conversation the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Tell me about your background. How did you get to where you are now? Dr. Duvvuri: I was born in India, in a city called Hyderabad, in the south of India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. Not Jamaica, Queens, but the country, the island. So, I grew up in the Caribbean, and when I finished high school, I was lucky enough to get accepted to UPenn. My bachelor’s is actually in biomedical engineering, and one of the people that I worked with was a scientist who did a lot of work on imaging and how engineering affects medicine and biomedical engineering. I asked him to write me a letter of recommendation to be a graduate student, because I wanted to be a PhD, just like him. He looked at me, he said, no. And I said, why not? And he said, there are three kinds of people in this world. The ones that have the hammers, that’s the engineers. The ones that have the nails and know what the problems are, those are the doctors. There’s a small third group of people who know both. What do you want to do? So, if you put it that way, well, I want to be the third group that knows both. And he said, that’s right. So you’ve got to be an MD PhD. I was born in India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. So, I grew up in the Caribbean. At that time, I knew I wanted to do something that involved working with my hands, where I helped people, where I saw immediate gratification from taking care of patients. Surgery was a clear link to that. And because of my background, coming from India, head and neck cancer actually struck me as being particularly relevant. I’ve had family members with it, and it’s actually one of the leading causes of death in the world in terms of cancer. And so, I decided to become an otolaryngologist to take care of patients with head and neck cancer. That was my motivation, with the intention of hopefully one day being able to contribute back to India. Talk to me a little more about robotic neck dissections, which is part of what you’ve pioneered. How exactly are they performed using a robot? We do it usually with an open approach, where you make an incision that starts just around the back of the neck, under the ear, and comes across towards the voice box. It’s about a 3- to 3.5-inch incision, which is quite large but can be hidden very nicely, and can be very cosmetic and closed well. But when you cut across those lymphatics in the neck, you always develop some amount of lymphedema. And the patients often complain that they have what they call turkey gobble under their chin. To avoid that, we developed a technique that uses a modified facelift approach which displaces that scar, putting it in a place in the hairline. When you lift up the skin, you put the surgical robot under that skin incision, and you use that to remove the lymph nodes. Same operation, just done a slightly different way. Not only is there benefit from cosmesis, there’s also benefit from the functional outcomes, because when you save all that skin and you prevent those scars, you get a lot less edema in the neck after surgery. That’s really beneficial to the patients, supporting good oncologic outcomes. We just published our five-year outcomes on this. We showed that if you compare patients who had robotic neck dissections versus patients that had traditional neck dissections, their five-year overall survival was the same . So, this is not an inferior technique in terms of survival, and it improves blood loss and improves outcomes. When will you be able to operate in other places of the world using the robotic console? It’s a very interesting question. I just came back from a big meeting from the Society of Robotic Surgery, where we discussed this. It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing this for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other. They can do surgeries across the different coasts of China. The technology is here. The delays in what we call latency have been solved. They can be controlled. “It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing [telesurgery] for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other.” The problem for America is we have a very high bar for safety. The ability to actually go through all the regulatory framework is honestly our biggest holdup. We want to make sure that we’re doing things in a safe and careful fashion. But the technique, the technology, the ability, it’s actually here. So, I don’t think that this is too far away. And this is actually one of the things that I’m passionate about, is bringing telesurgery or telemedicine truly to our space, because I strongly feel that just because you happen to live in a smaller town or a smaller city doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t have access to the same quality of care that you might get anywhere else. The issue of thyroid-sparing surgery appeals to me, because if I’m treating somebody that had a partial thyroidectomy versus a total thyroidectomy, it’s a different clinical appearance—how much thyroid hormone I have to use, how much I have to worry about things. Does the robot help you spare thyroid tissue? The short answer is no. The robot itself doesn’t help us. But I think what the robotic techniques have allowed us to do is to do the surgery in a very safe fashion and allowed us actually to incorporate modern advances to be more precise about making sure the tumors are removed. The American Thyroid Association has now told us, based on lots of data, that a partial thyroidectomy is a safe operation for people that have small thyroid cancers, those that are confined to the thyroid and haven’t spread to lymph nodes. You can do that safely, especially at a place like NYU Langone Health, where we have a tremendous team of endocrinologists and surgeons that work together. We can really work to create a personalized treatment plan to give the patients the right type of treatment. When I was a young doctor, if you had a thyroid cancer, the whole thyroid was coming out, and you were going to get radioactive iodine. Now, not so much. We can use molecular testing. We can use genetic algorithms. We can use technologies like radiofrequency ablation. We can do lots of things to minimize the toxicity profile for our patients. You use both robotic and nonrobotic approaches. Which head and neck procedures are more prone to needing one versus the other? It’s not as simple as that. It’s not that you’ve got tons of cancer, so you get a robotic surgery, or you got thyroid cancer, so you don’t. It’s much more an issue of, is the robotic approach or the open approach going to give the patient the best outcome and, ideally, with the least amount of toxicity so that they can carry on with their lives? The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field.” The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field, and we do this here at NYU Langone, which is, how can we deescalate and appropriately personalize the care for these patients? The goal here is that, going back to the hammer-and-the-nail analogy, not every nail needs the same hammer. I left out something we’re really, really world-renowned for, which is cochlear implants. What about AI? How is AI going to be integrated into ENT here? Artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms are definitely changing how we think about the delivery of care. There are a couple of ways that we’re looking at this. One is understanding, going back to this point, the right treatment for the right patient at the right time. Can artificial intelligence algorithms allow us to synthesize large amounts of data to figure out what’s happening? I’m also very privileged to be a part of a clinical trial that just opened at our veterans hospital, where we’re using artificial intelligence to prognosticate how patients will do with algorithms for treatment for oropharyngeal cancer with chemotherapy and radiation. This is a huge study, it’s a multicenter study. And I think this highlights how AI and machine learning algorithms may have unexpected roles. I don’t think it’s going to replace a doctor or a surgeon anytime soon. But I do think it will augment how we make our decisions. Head & Neck Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, where he is also chair. He specializes in applying minimally invasive robotic surgery to treat head and neck malignancies while simultaneously minimizing patient impact. Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation On February 9, 2024, NYU Langone’s celebrated the 40th anniversary of its first surgical cochlear implant. Since its start, the center has been involved in testing every major cochlear innovation and has implanted roughly 5,000 devices in patients ranging from 4 months to 97 years old. Here, center co-directors Sean O. McMenomey, MD William H. Shapiro, AUD , discuss the important lessons learned from their decades of experience. In addition, they describe the center’s central role in advancing other procedures like auditory brainstem implants, skull base surgery, and nonsurgical regeneration of tympanic membranes. Decades of Change with Cochlear Implants Cochlear implants have certainly evolved since you first started implanting them in 1984. Can you reflect on these advances? Dr. McMenomey: Our colleague Dr. J Thomas Roland Jr. has done a monumental amount of work on advances in electrode array design. I think we’ve been involved in every single advancement of electrode arrays for years. A modern cochlear implant is now beautifully thin, much thinner than the ones of yore: I used to put implants in that were at least three times thicker. How has your pool of eligible patients changed? Dr. Shapiro: When we began implanting these cochlear devices, adult patients with bilateral hearing loss couldn’t have any hearing at all because we didn’t know what we could guarantee. The technology and selection criteria have changed dramatically since then, and we can now help a much wider spectrum of patients. The typical adult with hearing loss is a candidate for a cochlear implant if their speech discrimination is less than 60 percent with a hearing aid. Patients with single-sided deafness (SSD) now make up our fastest-growing cohort. These patients often experience sudden idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss, and we don’t know exactly what causes it. I would say 30 percent of the patients that we implant are adults with SSD, and our cochlear implants in this group have been wildly successful. We also started implanting pediatric patients who have SSD. They may be born with an anatomical variant: maybe their cochlea isn’t developed enough or their cochlear nerve is not robust enough to carry a signal. We’re seeing some success here as well, though not to same level as in adults who could hear before experiencing SSD. Removing Age as a Limitation What accounts for the center’s huge range in patient ages? Dr. Shapiro : Dr. Roland devised a protocol that allows us to offer cochlear implants under local anesthesia with sedation to patients who are older or have extensive comorbidities. The patient is awake but sedated, and the recovery is much quicker than from general anesthesia. Anyone who is medically fragile or older, like the 97-year-old patient, could have the surgery with local anesthesia—that’s a big deal because not a lot of centers do that. “There really is no age limit.” We also implant patients routinely at 6 months of age, putting in two implants at the same time. Official FDA approval is down to 9 months of age, but a physician who thinks it’s in the best interest of the patient can implant off-label at earlier ages. The 4-month-old child that we implanted had bacterial meningitis, which can cause the tunnels in the cochlea to ossify. It’s important to get the electrode in as quickly as possible or it won’t be possible to place the full array. So that child needed implants at 4 months of age—there really is no age limit. Expertise with Auditory Brainstem Implants The center has played a leading role in advancing auditory brainstem implants (ABIs). Can you tell us about the center’s expertise with ABIs and explain what constitutes a successful case? There are two cohorts that we commonly treat with ABIs. The first cohort is adult patients with neurofibromatosis type 2 from whom Sean needs to remove a tumor. Potential hearing loss is always a consideration with operations to remove these kinds of tumors. The other cohort is children who are born with no cochlea or cochlear nerves— Dr. Susan B. Waltzman has played a leading role in advancing ABIs in this group In our experience, most children receive a measurable degree of auditory benefit from their implant, as well as improved quality of life. Our best pediatric performers have some limited open-set discrimination, which means they’re able to understand some speech without additional visual cues. None of our patients who receive ABIs use audition as their primary mode of communication; they’re all what we call multimodality: they also use sign language, lipreading, or other strategies. It depends on the year, but we perform between 5 and 10 ABIs every year. When we put an ABI in, it’s because there’s no other option. The children who were born without a cochlea or without a nerve aren’t candidates for cochlear implants, so their options are either an ABI or remaining without hearing. Preserving Hearing in Skull Base Surgery The center has worked hard to minimize hearing loss following skull base surgery—a big concern for patients. What lessons have you learned from that experience? The most common skull base surgery is for acoustic neuroma, also known as vestibular schwannoma, a typically benign tumor on the vestibular nerve. This tumor usually causes unilateral hearing loss due to its location inside the skull, where it can exert pressure on the auditory nerve. Hearing loss is far and away the most common symptom. Fortunately, we do have options to help this group of patients deal with their hearing loss. Our goal is—whenever possible—to preserve hearing, to keep it right where it is preoperatively by preventing further damage to the brain and nerve. We have conducted several studies to understand how factors such as acoustic tumor size impact hearing loss, enabling us to better advise and manage patients undergoing these surgeries. If you have a patient who comes in with normal hearing but who has an acoustic neuroma, they may lose their hearing in one ear when the neuroma is removed. But if the surgeon feels that they saved the nerve, we may be able to implant that patient with a cochlear implant. In fact, we’ve done that for some of our neuroma patients with SSD, including patients with stable unoperated tumors. Innovations on the Horizon What ongoing research at the center do you find particularly exciting? For the last hundred years, there really hasn’t been a nonsurgical way to repair a perforated eardrum. But we are doing a study right now that is looking at applying growth factor to the eardrum . It’s a double-blind study, and some patients are getting a placebo and some patients are getting the active drug to answer this question: Is there a way we can repair a perforated eardrum without taking patients to the operating room? “The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts.” Another study we’re involved in is exploring whether we can create an electrode that continuously bathes the cochlea in steroids, preventing an inflammatory reaction to the presence of a foreign body—the implant—within the cochlea and thereby preserving hearing. The answer is not in yet, but it’s ongoing work. Finally, the center is conducting experimental cochlear implant mapping based on music perception in patients with SSD . Again, the research shows how we’re leading the way in investigating different strategies, in this case helping patients with implants appreciate music. One of the things that makes it so fun to work here is that NYU Langone is basically involved in every cutting-edge cochlear implant trial, because we’re a high-volume center and well known and we do good work. The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts. Sean O. McMenomey, MD, is a professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and of neurosurgery. He is co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center and specializes in cochlear implants, skull base surgery, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and other treatments of hearing loss. William H. Shapiro, AUD, is the Lester S. Miller, Jr. and Kathleen V. Miller Clinical Assistant Professor of Hearing Health in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center, and director of audiology. One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery , physiatrist Lincy S. Thadathil, DO , sees most of the patients with concussion who come through the hospital’s emergency department and outpatient office. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, Dr. Thadathil is part of a multidisciplinary concussion team focused on individualizing treatment. “No two concussions are exactly alike,” she says. “Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” If not detected early and managed properly, concussion can result in prolonged neurologic symptoms, Dr. Thadathil says. At NYU Langone Health, a precise methodology based on leading-edge research in concussion management is used to evaluate the array of concussion symptoms that may affect function. “No two concussions are exactly alike. Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” “Brain disturbances may not show up immediately, so it’s important to thoroughly evaluate these patients,” Dr. Thadathil says. “The assessment checklist helps us address what actually happened, targeting each subgroup of symptoms—physiological, oculomotor and vestibular, cervical spine, and mood and cognition. “The goal is to initiate treatment as soon as possible and direct specific rehabilitation when persistent post-concussion symptoms are detected.” Individualized Rehab Once the initial evaluation is complete, a rehabilitation plan is developed to manage each symptom individually. This individualized rehabilitation takes a highly specialized, multidisciplinary team approach, involving experts in vestibular rehabilitation, neuro-focused occupational and speech therapy, neuropsychology, endocrinology, and otolaryngology. In most situations, patients are managed as outpatients. However, depending on the severity of the injury and symptoms, patients may be evaluated in the hospital. When the patient leaves the hospital, Dr. Thadathil works with social work and case management to transition them to the appropriate level of rehab—whether at or another facility closer to home, either subacute or outpatient. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred.” “If they’ve done well with the structural rehab at the hospital, we will help them transition into the community—to their house with home health, outpatient follow-up with me, or medication monitoring and outpatient therapy in the office,” Dr. Thadathil says. Diligent Monitoring While most patients with concussion recover within a few weeks, Dr. Thadathil says, a significant group experiences persistent post-concussive symptoms, some of which may be from associated cervical or persistent vestibular dysfunction. She and the rehabilitation specialists monitor each patient’s progress and watch for these post-concussion sequalae that may occur once a patient leaves the hospital or the initial evaluation. To help patients self-recognize warning signs of concussion and seek care, Dr. Thadathil and colleagues are engaged in community outreach. “Through our public education, some individuals come in by themselves because they believe they’ve had a concussion, or for a second or third opinion,” she says. “We’re teaching them to identify the symptoms and seek early evaluation.” Looking to improve methods for evaluating and monitoring concussion, Dr. Thadathil is participating in a research study led by neuroradiology colleague Yvonne W. Lui, MD Unpacking the Importance of the Structural Injuries of MTBI . The study will apply new MRI techniques, including advanced diffusion MRI, to measure brain microstructure changes in patients who have sustained concussion in the past six months. The goal is to identify distinct changes associated with recovery outcomes. Dr. Thadathil and colleagues will also participate in a trial of the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) in emergency departments. The tablet app was developed by NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologists to diagnose sideline concussion quickly by assessing visual pathways in the brain. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred,” Dr. Thadathil says. Lincy S. Thadathil, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine and a physiatrist at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, she treats concussion, stroke, and other injuries requiring neurologic intervention and rehabilitation. Differential Diagnosis of Optic Neuritis Can Point to Early Multiple Sclerosis A 24-year-old woman presented with blurred vision that had developed over several days. The woman’s symptoms worsened when her left eye was closed, while her vision normalized with her right eye closed. She reported pain, mainly in the right globe, when she moved her eyes. MRI showed an enhancing lesion of the affected optic nerve and an additional non-enhancing lesion in the periventricular area. In an invited response to the theoretical case vignette published by The New England Journal of Medicine , NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologist , concluded that the patient’s features were consistent with demyelinating optic neuritis, an early manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS) in up to 25 percent of patients. Given the effectiveness of new medications, he responded to the hypothetical case by urging the initiation of disease-modifying strategies to help prevent future attacks. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS.” Although optic neuritis has long been associated with MS, it has yet to be formally included in the consensus diagnostic criteria of lesions in at least two of four locations within the central nervous system. Dr. Galetta, however, has led a growing effort to prove the utility of optic neuritis as a fifth lesion site in establishing an early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention. “Our part was in establishing this new technology, optic coherence tomography, to measure the thickness of the optic nerve and validate it as one of the tools you could use to measure optic nerve dysfunction in MS,” he says. In a widely-cited 2019 study, he and collaborators used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to define the criteria for establishing optic nerve dysfunction in the setting of MS . Multiple studies have since shown that via clinical findings or imaging techniques such as MRI or OCT, including the optic nerve improves the diagnostic accuracy for MS. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS,” he says. The promising studies have led to a new editorial in in which Dr. Galetta and a collaborator at University College London lay out the argument for including the optic nerve in an upcoming revision of the consensus diagnostic criteria and providing what they hope will become a critical new tool for clinicians. Its title references the raft of new evidence: “Assignment Completed: The Optic Nerve Should Graduate to be the Fifth Lesion Site for the Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis.” Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches An angiogram showing the patient's arteriovenous malformation. Source: NYU Langone Health After sustaining a football-related concussion in August 2023, a 15-year-old boy with a preexisting history of chronic migraines experienced worsening symptoms, severe nausea and visual defects in his left eye. His migraines increased in frequency until he was unable to attend school. Neither physical therapy nor acupuncture provided relief. And although treatment with rimegepant dulled some of his pain, it intensified his nausea. By April 2024, an MRI revealed the cause: a large arteriovenous malformation (AVM) centered in the right occipital lobe of the patient’s brain. Following the diagnosis, the patient was referred to NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon Howard A. Riina, MD , for specialized care. In just a month after Dr. Riina and his team performed open surgery to resect the lesion, the patient experienced a life-changing moment—freedom from the migraines that had plagued him for years. The patient, family, and clinical team chose embolization followed by open surgery for curative treatment of the lesion and for immediate relief of debilitating migraines. Preoperative angiography with 3D reconstructions revealed the AVM to be 4 cm in size and at a high risk of bleeding. Functional MRI with diffusion tractography mapped adjacent eloquent brain surfaces and white matter anatomy. Preoperative embolization reduced the size of the AVM nidus by about 50 percent. Detailed Surgical Planning Dr. Riina initially performed diagnostic and rotational angiography with 3D reconstructions (Slide 1) to better characterize the vascular pathology and to inform clinical decision-making. The detailed imaging confirmed the exact size and location of the AVM, as well as the arterial branches feeding it. The imaging also revealed several areas of the lesion featuring a high risk for potential bleeding. Treatment options were then presented, including surgical resection, Gamma Knife radiosurgery, and endovascular embolization, on its own or in combination with one of the other strategies. The patient and his family chose surgery combined with embolization, in part because radiosurgery sometimes requires two to four years for complete treatment response. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” “Given the size and location of the AVM, his symptoms, and the significant risk of AVM-related bleeding over his lifetime, I felt that surgical resection was his best option,” Dr. Riina says. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” Functional MRI (fMRI) with diffusion tractography, conducted by neuroradiologist Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD , confirmed that the AVM did not involve eloquent cortical regions and provided detailed mapping of the patient’s white matter anatomy (Slide 2). “Dr. Riina and I determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks,” Dr. Shepherd says. “We also look at additional important cortical regions, like frontal eye fields and the supplementary motor area. We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” This advanced imaging provides a more complete picture for safer treatment planning, Dr. Shepherd says. [We] determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks … We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” In a preoperative embolization, Dr. Riina infused an ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide into arterial branches feeding the patient’s AVM nidus. The procedure obliterated roughly 50 to 60 percent of the AVM nidus, as shown by an angiogram (Slide 3). The following day, Dr. Riina performed an image-guided craniotomy and resection of the AVM. Intraoperative angiography confirmed the prior embolization and the successful resection of the remaining components of the AVM body (Slide 4). The patient’s migraines and visual field defects fully resolved after his surgery. AVM Characterized By Angiography Preoperative angiography using right internal carotid injection with 3D reconstructions revealed a 4-centimeter AVM (far left) fed by several arterial branches with drainage through an enlarged vein. fMRI Aids Treatment Planning fMRI activations were used to map critical functional regions, including visual tracking. Based on these visualizations and others, the fMRI helped determine there was a safe margin for resection of the AVM without a high risk of affecting eloquent regions. Establishing Embolization Success A postembolization angiogram confirmed that the procedure successfully blocked about 50 to 60 percent of the tangled blood vessels. The angiogram also showed preservation of the drainage through a vein toward the superior sagittal sinus. AVM Resection Confirmed By Intraoperative Angiogram Following an image-guided craniotomy and dissection of the AVM from surrounding tissue, an intraoperative angiogram confirmed the successful resection of the AVM. Howard A. Riina, MD, is the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of neurology and radiology, director of the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases, and vice chair of clinical affairs for the Department of Neurosurgery. He specializes in surgical and endovascular treatment for people with cerebrovascular disorders of the brain and spinal cord. Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology, associate section chief of neuroradiology, and director of its brain mapping. He specializes in neuroradiology and the translation of advanced imaging techniques into clinical practice. Latest in Neurosurgery NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting Houston, Texas. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s neurosurgery experts join colleagues from around the world at the Congress of Neurological Surgeons 2024 annual meeting in Houston. See the CNS website for Symposium SYM17A: Brain Tumor Update—Management of Malignant Brain Tumors Dimitris G. Placantonakis, MD, PhD 8:00AM–12:00PM Special Symposium 03: CNS Data Science and AI for Neurosurgeons: A Hands-On Experience Eric K. Oermann, MD 8:00AM–4:15PM Special Symposium 05: Greatest Surgical Challenges in the Cerebellopontine Angle, Petrous Apex and Petroclival Fissure—CNS/NASBS Symposium Douglas Kondziolka, MD Chandra Sen, MD Special Symposium 04: Meeting of the Americas SYM11A: Swimming with the Sharks Section Session Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves 1: Update on Minimally Invasive and Endoscopic Surgery 2:50–4:22PM Tuesday, October 1 General Scientific Session III 8:40AM–12:12PM Luncheon Seminar T14: Aneurysms: Tools and Tricks of the Trade Erez Nossek, MD 12:20–1:50PM Special Course Neurosurgery Publications: “Getting Published ” 1:20–2:50PM Section on Tumors 2: Focused Ultrasound and Intraoperative Photodynamic Therapy During Brain Tumor Resection 2:50–4:20PM Concurrent Session Cavernous Malformations: What Does the Modern Data Show? A Case-Based Joint Session of Sections on Pediatric Neurosurgery and Cerebrovascular Surgery 4:30–6:00PM Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Since many patients with chronic pulmonary conditions experience poor disease control, researchers are turning to the extra-esophageal manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) to look for clues that might explain this phenomenon. Investigators at NYU Langone Health’s were prompted by recent findings to further examine the association between GERD and chronic lung disease severity. The new research will be presented at a national conference in late 2023. “We have evidence from pH testing that many patients with complex pulmonary disease experience a significant amount of reflux, but it’s often silent, due to the absence of symptoms,” explains , surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health. “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease. These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” “For these patients, the influence of GERD and esophageal motility disorders is becoming increasingly recognized, and recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically,” says , medical director of the center. Inflammation Exacerbates Lung Disease GERD is known to cause, trigger, or exacerbate many chronic pulmonary diseases including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis, and while the physiological link between GERD and lung disease severity has been well established, it remains an underrecognized and undertreated comorbidity. While some patients will report symptoms, including heartburn, regurgitation, and dysphagia, others may have clinically silent disease, which is frequently seen among lung transplant recipients. “Microaspiration from reflux can lead to basilar changes in the lung tissue, driving inflammatory processes and the