Medicine Associates—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 400, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-2588 516-663-4644 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center 175 Fulton Avenue, Suite 100, Hempstead, NY, 11550 516-292-1034 J. Ira & Nicki Harris Family Ambulatory Care—Bridgehampton 2510 Montauk Highway, Bridgehampton, NY, 11932 631-386-3600 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Greenport 74825 Main Road, Greenport, NY, 11944 631-477-0070 631-477-8983 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Manhasset 929-455-6590 NYU Langone Medical Associates—North Babylon 1476 Deer Park Avenue, North Babylon, NY, 11703 631-635-5454 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Oakdale 4568A Sunrise Highway, Oakdale, NY, 11769 631-730-8542 631-730-6946 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-228-5801 929-455-9827 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-475-6900 631-447-5954 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, New Village 9 Village Green, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-227-6665 631-289-1046 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Shoreham 45 Route 25A, Suite C, Shoreham, NY, 11786 631-744-3303 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Valley Stream 70 East Sunrise Highway, Suite 515E, Valley Stream, NY, 11581 516-536-5656 516-764-1915 NYU Langone Primary Care Associates—Bellport Village 16 Station Road, Suite 5–6, Bellport, NY, 11713 631-286-3995 NYU Langone Pediatric Associates—Garden City 1000 Franklin Avenue, Suite 100, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-248-8334 NYU Langone Primary Care Clinic—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 104, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-1500 NYU Langone Primary Care—Long Beach 340 West Park Avenue, Long Beach, NY, 11561 516-431-5064 NYU Langone Primary Care—Mattituck 11700 Main Road, Mattituck, NY, 11952 631-635-5440 631-315-5510 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Staten Island 7 Petrus Avenue, Staten Island, NY, 10312 718-948-8000 929-455-9712 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bronxville 77 Pondfield Road, Suite 2F1, Bronxville, NY, 10708 914-337-4986 914-337-6422 16244 South Military Trail, Suite 560, Delray Beach, FL, 33484 561-495-7787 561-495-1164 Access our online patient portal to schedule appointments and view test results. Login to MyChart We offer morning, evening, and weekend appointments to best meet your needs. NYU Langone Health Launches Walk-In Primary Care NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting Chicago, Illinois. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s ophthalmology experts are joining colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Ophthalmology 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. See the full conference information and abstract titles , including an update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, October 19 Session (CME) Section I: Ocular Surface Disease/Dry Eye—Update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study NYU Langone Presenter: Time: 8:43AM Location: E354 Instruction Course (CME) From Surface to Surgery: A Case-Based, Interactive, and Hands-On Guide to Corneal Tomography and Topography in Anterior Segment Surgery Laura Palazzolo, MD 11:30AM–12:45PM E352 Sunday, October 20 Approach to Cataract Surgery in Corneal Diseases 8:00–9:15AM S106A Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management Kenneth Wald, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health For a live episode of the Brain and Eye Show on Doctor Radio, Kenneth Wald, MD , sat down with co-hosts , to explore breakthroughs and challenges in retinal disease management. The discussion ranged from macular degeneration treatments and their risks to the complexities of retinal tears and cataract implant complications. Listener questions prompted engaging insights into managing these conditions, highlighting the delicate balance between cutting-edge therapies and practical patient care. Below, we share an excerpt from the interview, edited for length and clarity. Sirius XM subscribers can listen to the full conversation Dr. Galetta: I want to tackle early one of the topics I see on TV all the time. People are very concerned about it and what can we do about. And that’s the topic of macular degeneration. Are there two forms of this? What are we talking about on TV these days? Dr. Wald: It’s a good topic to bring up because it is such a prevalent condition. Many patients who have macular degeneration don’t even have symptoms. They’re unaware of it. It can only be diagnosed by an ophthalmologic examination, usually with a dilated pupil. We may find some early features of it which we call drusen, small yellow spots that don’t really affect the vision. Later there can be progressive degenerative changes, some of which lead to atrophy. That’s become an area of interest these days because we suddenly have some possibility of slowing the condition down, where previously there was none. Fifteen or 20 years ago, the wet form was generally quickly devastating to vision. But over the last 15 or so years we have a pretty good treatment for that that could at least control it. The problem is treatment burden; patients have to come as frequently as every six weeks, indefinitely, to manage this condition. We also have new treatments that are geared towards the dry form, which can hopefully slow disease progression. However, these medications can’t really reverse it or improve the vision, and that’s what’s controversial these days. Dr. Cohen: Do you think the drugs that are being advertised on TV for wet AMD are that much better than the older drugs? The studies are a little controversial. It’s not so much that they’re better. They work on very much the same principles. But the hope is they can work for longer. For many of the patients receiving these intraocular injections—which is no picnic to have someone insert a needle into your eye—the hope is that maybe some of these drugs can last four or more months, instead of six or eight weeks. The real answer is that a lot of the studies don’t show that much difference, even with these newer drugs that are touted on commercial radio and television. Do you think any of the drugs for dry AMD are ready for primetime, or do you think we’re going to get better ones down the road? Dr. Wald : That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration. And the word degeneration really is relevant here because the actual retina degenerates. We call that atrophy or geographic atrophy. When that happens, it usually starts without much change in the vision. But it’s relentlessly progressive. “That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration.” The drugs that are now on the market, Syfovre and Izervay, these drugs are given either every month or every other month, indefinitely. And patients will experience no visual improvement; they won’t get better. In fact, they’ll still get worse. But the thinking is, and the evidence shows, that they may get worse a little more slowly. There are a lot of side effects and costs associated with these drugs. And there’s some question whether it really improves the visual function. Anatomically, [patients’ geographic atrophy] seems to slow down compared to untreated patients over long periods of time. Whether continuing to treat this over long periods of time will yield some longer, better visual functioning is still being determined. These drugs are pretty new, and we’re looking at two- and four-year data now. We have the same situation today with Alzheimer’s disease. The drugs do not change the fact that somebody’s going to continue to progress. They’re just going to do it slower. Why wouldn’t you take that chance that you’re going to slow your disease down? Is it the cost? Is it the side effects? It is those things. Like all medical therapies, we’re balancing the risks and the benefits. These drugs have a very small therapeutic index. The benefit is small. We don’t even know how much better the visual functioning is going to be. It may have an anatomic benefit and very little visual functional benefit. That’s still being determined. And there are side effects. Simply doing the injection produces a small but real risk of infection. The patients can have some increased risk, not negligible, of developing the wet form of macular degeneration. If that happens, you’re sometimes getting two injections a month; it’s a pretty intensive thing. There are other risks involved. You do have to carefully weigh which patients that it would make sense for. There are a lot of institutions, including our own, that have not really been on board with this form of therapy yet. Let’s try the phone lines. Caller from New Jersey, how can we help you today? Listener 1: In February of last year, I experienced what looked like snakes in my field of vision. I went to the doctor and they lasered down a tear in the retina. Then a few months later they preemptively did the other eye. Everything seemed to be going well. I didn’t have a lot of floaters. But just recently on a follow-up visit, they found something on the front of my eye that I can best describe as it looks like a piece of partially cooked egg white. I’m waiting now to get a biopsy. Are these conditions related? And what could this thing be on the front of my eye? Dr. Cohen : When you look in the mirror on the front of the eye, can you see what they’re talking about? Yes. : Is it sort of at the 3 or 9 o’clock position, and it kind of looks white? : That sounds like a pinguecula, which is related to sun exposure and is almost always benign and has nothing to do with your retinal tears. But your retinal tears are interesting. Dr. Wald, how often do you prophylactically, treat the second eye? Well, that’s controversial. It depends on what the doctor saw. Obviously, you’ve developed what we call a vitreous separation and an associated tear in the retina. With treatment of the fellow eye, I’m guessing that they saw maybe an asymptomatic tear in the fellow eye. Otherwise, there aren’t too many abnormalities that we prophylactically treat in a situation like yours. But again, it’s difficult to say. I’m just glad your floaters got better and you’re seeing well. And, as Dr. Cohen said, it sounds like your external eye problem is unrelated to the floaters and the retinal tear. : How often when someone has acute floaters, when you see them initially or in follow-up, do you find tears that need treatment? If a patient comes in with floaters and we don’t see a tear, it’s pretty rare. However, if you found a tear—you know, I actually just published a paper on this about a year ago— it’s pretty common to find a second tear . It’s not even uncommon to have a detached retina. So, someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment. “Someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment.” How quickly should somebody who develops floaters see a retina doctor? You’d like it to be within a day or so. Because if you have this sudden onset of floaters, your risk of a torn retina is perhaps 5 or 10 percent. And if you are not treated promptly, if you have a torn retina, you may have as much as a 50/50 chance of going on to a very serious problem called a detached retina. Realistically, I’d say most people are seen within a couple of days, and it works out okay. It’s really the people who ignore it for a week or two that seem to develop retinal detachments. : I am always the exception to all the rules. I had an acute floater at a show in New York, and then another one within several minutes. I left the show and went to Philly to see a doctor there. I was okay. I was seen the next day and the next week. But then two weeks later, I had two horseshoe tears. And I can’t believe he didn’t see them the first time because there wasn’t any reason, like blood, that would prevent a good exam. Dr. Wald, what do you think about that scenario? If you see somebody with a floater but you don’t see a tear, when do you say, ‘Hey, come back again’? I’d say it depends on the risk factors. It’s a very common condition, and you just can’t examine people over and over for something that’s very unlikely to be a problem. But I’d look at their refractive error, meaning are they very nearsighted? Is there blood, as Dr. Cohen was saying, because that would diminish our ability to detect things. Do they have what we call precursor abnormalities, meaning lattice or other things that may give rise to retinal tear? And, what Dr. Cohen is saying, it is kind of unusual that you would examine someone initially and then find a tear a week or two later. And whenever that does happen, I always wonder, did I miss it? You just can’t know, because you looked and presumably you made your best effort. “Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day.” Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day. Is there any better way to look for a retinal tear than you just viewing? Is there a next-level thing that you can do these days? We’d love to have that. In fact, one of our graduates, Jesse Jung, has reported on this very topic . They looked at our best optical tool, called an Optos, and really, it’s not as good. It’s probably pretty good, especially if you already know where the tear is and you can direct the photographer. But it’s not as good. You’ll still miss tears. So right now, in our field, we still have to really look hard. Our next caller is from Connecticut. How can we help you today? Listener 2: I have a problem with one of my cataract implants. I had it done about 10 years ago, but in the last year or so, it moves a little bit, and it gets a drop of blood on the eye. And then for about two hours, you can’t really see out of that eye. It gets foggy. Then it goes away. They’ve been giving me cyclopentolate to dilate the eye so that it doesn’t happen that often, but it still happens. I can’t replace that implant because I’m on blood thinners and the doctor won’t even bother doing it. You’re calling the right person because one of Dr. Wald’s special interests and expertise is dealing with implants that aren’t in the right place and behaving properly. It’s a tricky problem that you have. It depends on how much it’s bothering you. Sometimes we do replace the implants. The condition you seem to have—an implant that’s not stable and is causing occasional bleeding in the eye—is called UGH syndrome . The H stands for hemorrhage. The motion of the implant, as you’ve been describing it, rubs part of the eye tissue and causes bleeding. Sometimes Cyclogyl can help. Sometimes anti-inflammatories will help. Ultimately, if it’s a sporadic problem and you’re mostly seeing okay, I probably would do just what they’re doing. Just manage it conservatively with drops and accept that once in a while you’ll have this problem. The alternative would be a surgery. Again, it all depends on the type of lens in your eye. Some are more apt to be maintained, repositioned, and fixated. Others have to be removed. But the presence of blood thinners doesn’t absolutely rule it out. We operate on people on blood thinners all the time. Most of the studies don’t show that there’s a significantly different risk involved. So it’s really a judgment of what to do. It sounds like, from what I’m hearing, it’s an occasional problem that could be managed with drops for now. So, I think the main thing for you, because other issues like high eye pressure can come up—you just need to be followed closely. If you start having frequent bleeds and the lens is moving very significantly so you can’t see well, you may have to ultimately have a surgical procedure to correct it. But I think it’s an important point that blood thinners don’t make him a bad candidate for most eye procedures. I definitely think about it. It would be a factor. If someone had a retinal detachment, I’m going to do the surgery. Nonetheless, if it’s a macular pucker, a less severe problem, or not progressive, I’ll weigh that a little bit. I feel like there’s still a slight increased risk of even severe complications. But most studies don’t really show that, and we are used to dealing with that all the time. And we generally would take the risk of bleeding in the eye over a stroke to the brain. Correct. So, we’ll keep the patients on blood thinners. I always say brain trumps eye. Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, is a cornea specialist and professor of ophthalmology whose research focuses on infections of the eye, specifically herpes zoster eye disease. She also serves as vice chair of academic affairs in the Department of Ophthalmology and as an advisor for the three-year MD pathway. Steven L. Galetta, MD, is the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD, Professor and Chair of Neurology and a professor of ophthalmology. He specializes in neuro-ophthalmology with an emphasis on disorders of the brain and spinal cord such as vision problems associated with multiple sclerosis. Retinal Ophthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Kenneth Wald, MD, is a professor of ophthalmology and director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal disease. He specializes in the management of retinal conditions such as retinal tears and detachment, macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and eye trauma. Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results Milan R. Amin, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health BB-301 is an experimental gene therapy for OPMD, a rare disorder characterized by weakness of the eyelid and throat muscles; NYU Langone is leading a single-center Phase 1b/2a trial to evaluate its safety and efficacy. At present, 2 patients have been treated with a third enrolled; another 21 who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. After 9 months of treatment for the first patient and 6 months for the second, preliminary data show sustained improvements in swallowing. Additional interim results are expected in early 2025. Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a rare genetic disorder that progressively weakens the muscles of the eyelids and throat. Symptom onset typically begins after age 40, with patients often developing severe dysphagia that can lead to malnutrition, dehydration, and aspiration pneumonia—and, in some cases, death. Although treatments such as cricopharyngeal dilation or myotomy can improve swallowing-related symptoms, relief is usually temporary. To date, no treatment has been approved that addresses OPMD’s underlying pathology. However, an experimental gene therapy known as BB-301 aims to do just that. A Phase 1b/2a clinical trial began in November 2023 at NYU Langone Health, and preliminary data are encouraging. “The hope is that this will be a permanent fix for folks with OPMD,” says , chief of the Division of Laryngology , who is leading the trial. “These patients know their fate, because they’ve watched family members go through exactly the same thing,” Dr. Amin observes. “As the disease progresses, they’re unable to eat with friends. Many end up on feeding tubes. They’re worried about passing the gene on to their children.” Silencing and Replacing an Errant Gene OPMD is caused by mutations in a gene that encodes PABPN1, a protein crucial for RNA processing in cells throughout the body. Clumps of abnormal PABPN1 accumulate in some muscle cells, impairing their function and eventually killing them. BB-301 is designed to stop this cascade of destruction. Developed by the California-based Benitec Biopharma, the therapy uses an adenovirus vector to deliver genetic code that silences the dysfunctional PABPN1 gene and replaces it with a functional version. The vector is injected into the pharyngeal constrictor muscles through incisions on both sides of the neck. “The open approach enables us to deliver the therapy directly to the muscles, which has been shown preclinically to generate a stronger gene effect,” Dr. Amin explains. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety, but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” The single-center study’s Phase 1b phase will test three escalating doses of the therapy, leading to a Phase 2a trial that will test the optimal dose. Two patients have been treated so far, with a third patient recently enrolled. An additional 21 patients who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety,” Dr. Amin says, “but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” Offering Patients New Hope To measure BB-301’s effects on swallowing ability, the researchers assess total pharyngeal residue using four types of food: a thin liquid, a moderate liquid, a thick liquid, and a solid. Early results have been released for the first patient, with positive responses seen at 90 and 180 days of follow-up. For moderate and thick liquids, as well as solid foods, pharyngeal residue was lower than at any point during a previous natural history study of the patient. For thin liquid, residue was comparable to the lowest value seen during that study. The patient’s self-reported swallowing difficulties have also improved, and neither she nor the other participant treated have experienced major adverse effects. The second patient has also shown improvements at 90 days of follow-up, according to Dr. Amin, though her presenting symptoms were milder, and their mitigation has been less dramatic. “This treatment has had an impact [on the first patient] beyond just her physical health. She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” Much more research will be needed to answer the questions raised by these findings, such as whether BB-301 brings improvements to a sizable proportion of patients, and whether (as with Elevidys, the gene therapy recently approved for Duchenne muscular dystrophy ) a single dose can elicit durable effects. Additional preliminary results are expected in early 2025. For patients with OPMD, however, the trial already offers a different kind of benefit—a sense of possibility. As Dr. Amin puts it, “If it can reverse their dysfunction, it may significantly improve not only their quality of life but also their lifespan.” The trial’s first subject, he adds, has resumed going to restaurants, no longer fearing that others will see her struggling to swallow. “This treatment has had an impact beyond just her physical health,” Dr. Amin says. “She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” NYU Langone Health receives funding from Benitec Biopharma to support the Phase 1b/2a trial of BB-301 for OPMD. Laryngology & Voice, Otolaryngology, Swallow and Airway Milan R. Amin, MD is a professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Laryngology. His research interests center on voice and communication disorders and swallowing disorders. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Miami Beach, Florida, September 28 to October 1. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite its status as a leading cause of irreversible blindness , uveitis is still an uncommon focus of research. The autoimmune condition is often treatable if caught in time, but choosing the best medication for each patient is still based on trial and error. Since his arrival in October 2023 as director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology at NYU Langone Health, leading specialist C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA , has launched an ambitious plan to rethink how uveitis is classified. Doing so, he says, will help identify underlying disease pathways and improve the selection of vision-saving biologics. Here, Dr. Samson discusses the state of the field and his vision for the future. Reliance on Trial and Error Dr. Samson, what’s the current state of clinical care for uveitis? Dr. Samson: At present, uveitis remains the rarest subspecialty in ophthalmology, but I think significant strides have been made in clinical care. You can think of a uveitis specialist as the rheumatologist of eye doctors. To treat autoimmune conditions, rheumatologists use, in many cases, systemic immunosuppressives or immunomodulators. These medications can be vision-saving for uveitis patients, and yet most eye doctors have very little experience in using them. “We need a new way of approaching patients with inflammatory eye disease.” While the medications are very effective in treating patients and preventing blindness, the clinical approach of trial and error really hasn’t changed over the last 25 years. Patients often sense this uncertainty, asking “Well, which medicine do we try next?” We need a new way of approaching inflammatory eye disease, and that personal mission is what brought me to NYU Langone. Improving Disease Classification What’s the new paradigm that you’re pursuing here? There’s been a lot of research in animal models of uveitis, to the point where researchers have mapped out the entire pathophysiological mechanism and used knockout models or particular therapies to cure the uveitis in the animals. But when we use biologics targeting those same molecules in patients with uveitis, it often doesn’t yield such a great response, meaning that selecting the appropriate treatment for each patient is still a guessing game. For example, interleukin-1 (IL-1) is critical in animal models of uveitis, but biologics that target IL-1 don’t produce significant clinical effects in most cases of uveitis in humans. My idea is that animal models don’t accurately reflect what happens in humans. Instead of relying on animal models, we can start analyzing and studying the immunopathological mechanism of uveitis in human patients, with the ultimate goal being to understand the disease process. Also, uveitis is typically characterized by whether it’s associated with another autoimmune condition, like lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. Instead, why don’t we categorize uveitis based on the individual’s immune system activity? This approach would provide a more accurate way to categorize the condition. I have a large and diverse cohort of patients with uveitis, along with data on biomarkers that illustrate the various presentations of uveitis in the eye. For example, uveitis in a patient with sarcoidosis can present in five different ways. In many cases, I believe that presentation can reveal a difference in immune pathology. Now that I’m here, I have a great team and the resources to pursue my research idea. How might this rethinking of disease classification help patients? Drug companies continue coming up with biologics that target immune molecules. Ten years ago, I had maybe 7 choices of medications; now I have over 20. However, it hasn’t gotten any easier to select the appropriate biologic for a patient because we have no standardized methodology. Uveitis is a broad umbrella category of at least 30 different diseases, each with unique immunopathological mechanisms that have not yet been elucidated. If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error. “If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error.” Wouldn’t it be better to apply precision medicine to uveitis, and be able to identify each patient’s specific immune pathway and match it with the most appropriate medication? Once we start categorizing uveitis immunologically, we can conduct retrospective analyses for each disorder to identify which patients responded well to which treatments. We can build immunological signatures from blood samples and use those signatures to select the most effective drug for each individual. That’ll be a game changer. An Optimistic Eye Toward the Future Looking ahead, what are you most encouraged by in the field? Several things give me optimism. There’s now a lot of interest in uveitis outside of our very small research community. Uveitis, which is often associated with other autoimmune conditions, has “orphan disease” status from the FDA. So for companies, it presents a pathway where you can do a smaller and less expensive clinical trial and find information about your drug without having to do a gigantic rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis trial. In fact, given that we’re one of the few uveitis centers in the nation, NYU Langone has already been approached by two companies wanting to run their clinical trials for uveitis here. Secondly, I believe that there’s a modestly higher number of immunologists studying uveitis, based on research meetings I’ve attended and reading what manuscripts are being published. With more investigators with diverse expertise studying the condition, we’ll gain greater insight into the disease and further improve treatments. The last thing is that I’m pleasantly surprised by how well-informed patients are about the condition and the available treatments. They show great interest in and support for my research and that of other specialists. It serves as strong motivation to move forward and try to make their lives better. C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA, is director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology. He specializes in uveitis and other inflammatory eye disorders, including scleritis and ocular cicatricial pemphigoid. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Retention of patent ductus arteriosus and pulmonary artery banding aid left ventricle before successful transplant. The patient at his first birthday celebration. View the Slideshow Novel Hybrid Strategy and Heart Transplant for Infant’s Cardiomyopathy In September 2022, diagnostic scans taken during the 27th week of an Israeli woman’s pregnancy revealed a severely weakened left ventricle in her developing fetus. The prenatal diagnosis suggested that after birth, the newborn would likely develop severe heart failure and require a heart transplant. At NYU Langone Health, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists confirmed the life-threatening diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy via a fetal echocardiogram. At 37 weeks into her pregnancy, the woman gave birth to a baby boy, who was in cardiogenic shock and taken to the for specialized care. “From our perspective, he was very sick,” says , medical director of the . “He would need a heart transplant to survive.” “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating.” A left ventricular assist device called the Berlin Heart can help a weakened heart move blood through the body, but the device carries an increased risk of bleeding and stroke in infants. To bridge the time until a donor heart would become available, pediatric heart surgeon , proposed a novel alternative that had been used for other congenital heart defects: using the patient’s healthy right ventricle to augment blood flow to the body. To accomplish that, intravenous prostaglandin E1 kept the newborn’s patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) blood vessel open. Surgeons also performed bilateral branch pulmonary artery banding to limit that artery’s blood flow and reduce the risk of long-term lung damage. The baby soon stabilized and remained on a ventilator under mild sedation. At two months of life, his PDA began to constrict, requiring catheter stent implantation across the ductus arteriosus.  In June 2023, a donor heart became available, allowing surgeons led by Dr. Kumar and , to rebuild the baby’s pulmonary arteries and perform a heart transplant. “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating,” Dr. Kumar says. “This excellent outcome is the result of our team’s extensive experience and seamless collaboration,” adds Dr. Mosca. “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later.” The boy’s parents, who had relocated to New York, took their son home two months later, and he continued to receive extensive outpatient pediatric rehabilitation services through . “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later,” Dr. Singh says. In December 2023, the boy celebrated another big milestone: his first birthday. Developing Fetus Diagnosed with Dilated Cardiomyopathy After diagnostic scans at 27 weeks of a woman’s pregnancy revealed a weakened left ventricle in her fetus, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists at NYU Langone confirmed the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy. The woman gave birth to a baby boy at 37 weeks, and he began receiving specialty care in the Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Intravenous Medication Retains PDA In infants, the patent ductus arteriosus in the right ventricle normally closes after birth, but can be kept open with medication. As one part of a novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons used prostaglandin E1 to keep the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in his healthy right ventricle open. Retaining the function of this PDA blood vessel, which normally closes after birth, helped augment blood flow throughout the baby’s body until a donor heart became available. Pulmonary Artery Banding Limits Blood Flow Pulmonary artery banding, in the context of cardiomyopathy, can limit blood flow to the lungs and reduce long-term risks. In the second part of the novel hybrid