leadership, providers and staff to align pathways and processes for referral and implementation within the practice flow, and continue to build linkages with the Sunset Park Family Health Center and community programs. Having set this stage and developed these relationships, VIP plans to engage in large scale expansion of VIP, including across multiple locations in Sunset Park. This work includes expansion of VIP to 3 4 additional locations in Sunset Park in the upcoming two years, with locations including a mixture of FHCs and community sites. In addition, VIP will continue to engage in collaboration and integration with other partner programs, such as Healthy Steps, Reach Out and Read, Brooklyn Public Library, and others. This work will be taking place in collaboration with those programs and partners. 4. Project SAFE Project SAFE prevents unintended pregnancy and the spread of STDs and HIV/AIDS through evidence based interventions within a youth development framework that builds upon the existing strengths of 96 young people. Project SAFE has been providing teen leadership, culturally appropriate sexual health information and services, and HIV peer education programming at the Project Reach Youth (PRY) site in Brooklyn since 1989. The program provides youth ages 13 to 24 with the support and opportunities to avoid risky behaviors and to develop to their full potential and become agents of change in their communities. Project SAFE is informed by a youth development approach, focusing on building participants’ strengths and assets and increasing their exposure to positive relationships and experiences. This approach is based on the Search Institute’s identification of 40 positive supports and strengths that young people need to succeed and research indicating that the greater the number of assets youth possess, the more likely they are to experience positive outcomes and the less likely to engage in risky behavior. The program model includes evidence based sexual health workshops, peer led health education groups and community events, sexual health services designed to meet the unique needs of adolescents, and workshops for youth workers and parents. Progress and impact Multi Session Workshop Series Project SAFE works with partners to provide pregnancy prevention workshops to youth in underserved communities in Brooklyn, including Sunset Park. The program utilizes an evidence based sexual health curricula that has been shown to increase knowledge and eliminate or reduce risky sexual behaviors Making Proud Choices. Topics covered during the eight session workshop series include pregnancy and STD/HIV prevention, as well as confidence, pride, and respect building activities. To accommodate schools that shifted to remote work due to the COVID 19 pandemic, Project SAFE created an adapted virtual version of the Making Proud Choices curriculum that was approved by the EBI developer. Health educators facilitated five ’pilot‘ cycles and then made additional modifications based on feedback from students and facilitators. Since September 2019, Project SAFE has facilitated 65 cycles of Making Proud Choices, reaching a total of 1,661 youth in 15 high schools, community based organizations, and high school equivalency programs. New partnerships developed since September 2019 include Brooklyn Ascend Charter School, Cyber Arts Studio Academy, and the P.S 753 School for Career Development. Program evaluations of virtual workshops have shown that, as a result of the workshops, most participants know more about how to protect themselves from pregnancy or STIs and are more likely to practice safer sex or abstain from sex ( and respectively, as reported on a post workshop survey). Ninety eight percent of participants indicated they would recommend the workshops to a friend. Seventy nine percent of workshop participants completed at least of workshop sessions. 97 Peer Education Groups Youth who complete the workshop series transition into the Teen Health Council, Project SAFE’s introductory peer health education group. In the Teen Health Council, peer educators learn the basics of workshop facilitation, community event planning, and outreach strategies, while engaging in activities that focus on community and group connectedness. After completing the semester long Teen Health Council, teens can then transition into one of the advanced peer education groups. Facilitated by an adult project facilitator and a peer leader, the groups offer a variety of ways for youth to have a positive impact in their community. Since September 2019, Project SAFE has recruited and trained 67 Peers Educators. The current groups include: § Theater: Peer educators create and perform pieces that explore issues of safer sex, gender, culture, identity, and HIV/AIDS prevention using movement, poetry, and drama; § Media, Outreach and Branding: Peer educators use social media, such as Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook, and YouTube, to reach high risk youth and provide sexual health education; § Ambassadors: Youth are trained to facilitate sexual health workshops for their peers at schools and community events; and § Social Activism: Participants select a reproductive justice issue and, with the guidance of a facilitator, initiate a project (such as a workshop or social media campaign) to address the issue. Teens participating in peer education groups from 2019 to the present demonstrated increases in: frequency of condom use; HIV knowledge; knowledge of HIV status; and knowledge of STD status. Seventy percent of youth (33 of 47 youth who took and baseline and follow up survey in 2021) showed a gain in at least one of these areas. 98 Community Events and Single Session Workshops Throughout the year, peer educators and Project SAFE staff work collaboratively to produce a series of community events to promote teen sexual health. The events typically include performances from the arts based groups and an open mic session in which guests and community members can perform. Community events also offer on site HIV testing and promote teen health services available through Project SAFE and other community organizations. During this reporting period, many events were hosted virtually. Since September 2019, Project SAFE has hosted or performed at 58 in person and virtual community events, reaching 1,066 youth. The events consistently received overwhelmingly positive feedback with of virtual event participants and of in person participants rating their experience of the events as excellent or good (306 of 323, and 293 of 304, respectively). Additionally, of participants who completed a survey for an in person event indicated that they would recommend Project SAFE events to a friend and said they were likely to utilize a Project SAFE Teen Clinic in the future (283 of 304, and 241 of 304, respectively). Project SAFE also offers single session peer led sexual health workshops. Since September 2019, we have reached 528 young people through 21 in person and virtual single session sexual health workshops. Of our youth led virtual workshops, (27 of 28 participants who completed a post workshop survey) reported good or excellent HIV knowledge after the workshop (compared to before the workshop). Teen Health Clinic Project SAFE partners with the Family Health Centers to run the Teen Health Clinics providing young people with a health care experience tailored to their needs. The Project SAFE Teen Health Clinic offers youth a non judgmental, personal approach to sexual health, with a teens only waiting room and a staff, including Project SAFE staff and peer educators, who are trained to use an empowering, strengths based approach. The clinics address the barriers youth experience in accessing sexual health services such as stigmatization, fear of parental disapproval, and lack of access to confidential health coverage. The two clinics in Park Slope and Sunset Park offer a full range of sexual health counseling and clinical services. Since September 2019, 933 teens received STI testing and other services at the Teen Health In 2019, Project SAFE partnered with BRIC Media Arts to create a Teen Health Clinic Outreach video. The video, scripted and filmed by youth with support from a BRIC producer, details the Teen Health Clinic services and how to make an appointment through a narrative created by the teens. This video (https://bit.ly/2P5Vjou) was screened at BRIC on February 12, 2020 and was aired on Brooklyn Free Speech channel. 99 Clinics, Additionally, over 2,000 teens were screened for pre and post HIV exposure prevention needs (PEP and PrEP) at the Teen Health Clinics, workshops, and community events. Starting in June 2020, Project SAFE began offering at home HIV testing in response to COVID 19 through a partnership with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Interested youth can call or text a Project SAFE health educator to request a test which is then mailed to the client’s home in confidential packaging with pre and post test counseling provided over the phone. Workshops for Youth Workers and Parents Talking with youth about sex can be challenging for parents and staff that work with adolescents. Project SAFE provides workshops and other support to youth organizations and parents to make these conversations easier. The Let’s Talk about Sex workshop covers basic principles of Motivational Interviewing, tips for starting the conversation, and making referrals to sexual health services. Since September 2019, six workshops were provided to 82 youth workers and parents at four partner schools. Plans Over the next three years, Project SAFE will reach over 5,000 teens. Project SAFE plans to work with high schools connected to the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone school based health center sites, other schools and organizations, and expand our program to reach middle school students as well, reaching an anticipated 2,100 youth at high risk for HIV and/or unplanned pregnancy through 84 workshop series cycles. Schools and Community Based Organizations will be selected based on whether they serve communities that have higher than average rates of teen pregnancy, teen births, or HIV. If data are available then we would also look at factors such as history of unprotected sex that indicates an increased risk for unplanned pregnancy and HIV. Finally, partners need to commit to ensuring access to adolescents for all sessions of evidence based intervention workshops. Peer educators and staff will facilitate 30 single session workshops, reaching an anticipated 450 teen participants. Teens will host or perform at 17 community events over the next three years, reaching approximately 680 of their peers with core pregnancy, STD, and HIV/AIDS prevention and resource messages. One hundred and fifty two new teens will move from the Teen Health Council to advanced peer education groups. The program will reach 100 youth workers and parents through 18 single session workshops. To support protective factors against HIV such as educational achievement, Project SAFE will establish biannual college and career panels for peer educators. Panelists will include Project SAFE alumni with varied academic and professional backgrounds. The events will be designed to provide youth with insight into the details of each field and help students to envision their future as college students and professionals. Project SAFE staff will also facilitate an additional six college preparation workshops for junior and senior participants annually. Screenings will remain a core part of the program. Building on efforts to provide comprehensive HIV prevention services, Project SAFE will begin to administer substance abuse screenings. It is anticipated that through Project SAFE workshops, community events, and the Teen Health Clinic: 400 teens will Here’s what teens said about Project SAFE programs since 2019: “It is fun but at the same time it is an educational place where we learn to stay safe. Also the environment is very welcoming and you know everyone here.” “Being in SAFE is like a family. We learn, we play, we help each other, we help others, and it’s just an amazing atmosphere.” 100 receive HIV screenings and 2,100 teens will receive PrEP and PEP screenings; Teens will continue to meet with a health educator for support and counseling and be connected to appropriate community resources and services. 5. Family Support Services The NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center serves the largely Black and Latinx population of Hempstead, a community with high levels of poverty three times higher than in Nassau County overall. The families served by the Center are therefore more likely to experience the risk factors identified by the NY State Prevention Agenda “such as food insecurity, homelessness, employment conditions, poverty, adverse neighborhood environments, inadequate health care, lack of educational opportunities, social exclusion, racism and discrimination, lack of social support, and gender based inequities.” As noted in Section I.D.5., strong social supports, family structures and community programs can help prevent or ameliorate the impact of these stressors on childhood development and health. To address these needs, the Pediatric Center is launching a Family Support Counselor program at the Pediatric Center is to screen patients for socials needs, connect them to a network of local services, and follow up to ensure that care is received. Family Support Counselors at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone in Brooklyn have found high rates of food insecurity among pediatric patients, as well as family stress resulting from overcrowded homes, economic instability and immigrant status. Half of all parents with young children screened for social needs in Family Health Centers’ pediatric practices in 2021 reported running out of food or worrying about running out of food. In addition, to encourage language and literacy skills, the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center is implementing Reach Out and Read (ROR), an evidence based pediatric early literacy program for children from birth to age five. In this program, doctors and other pediatric medical providers provide early literacy guidance, give out free, high quality and developmentally appropriate books to their young patients during medical visits, and coach parents on how to create literacy rich environments at home. The families served by the Center are often low income, low literacy, and immigrant population with very limited resources. Patients have fewer opportunities for early learning activities with their parents including reading, teaching, and playing. Through participation in ROR, the families will receive at least 10 books by the child's fifth birthday, providing an opportunity to foster early child development and enhanced parent child relationship through reading aloud, talking, and playing. For families, whose primary language is not English, ROR encourages literacy by providing books in many languages. Progress and impact Over the past year, clinicians and administrator from the Pediatric Center have been working with the Family Health Centers’ pediatric practice to learn about, adapt and replicate their Family Support Counselor model and Reach Out and Read for implementation in the coming year. In addition, staff have been working to identify a network of local service providers to enhance the Center’s connection to resources. 101 Plans In year one of the 2022 2024 CSP, the Pediatric Center plans to hire a Family Support Counselor who will be fully integrated into the Center’s practice, screening families for social needs and risks, developing relationships and making referrals to local services, and following up to ensure that connections are made. The Counselor, together with the group of community leaders who have worked on the Hempstead Needs and Assets Assessment (see Section I.C.5.), will develop relationships with community based organizations and other resources, and identify gaps and needed services. We anticipate that, the Family Support Counselor will assist 500 patients in year one, with that number growing as screening systems are put into place. In addition, each year, the Pediatric Center's Reach Out and Read program will place over 3,000 books in the homes of participating families. E. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment 1. Falls Prevention Programs We have an emerging portfolio of projects that focus on Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment by reducing falls among vulnerable populations. This includes two evidenced based fall prevention programs that are being implemented at the Long Island Hospital Wellness Center, and at two libraries and other community settings in Nassau County: Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention and A Matter of Balance. Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention: Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention program is an evidence based program recommended by the Centers for Disease Control as a practical approach to preventing falls. Older people are more likely to fall, which can cause serious injury. The causes of falls in the elderly include: § Muscle weakness; § Poor balance and vision; § Lack of confidence in moving about; and § The effect of medication. The program's goal is to reduce the risk for falls in adults over sixty. This is done by improving muscle strength, flexibility, confidence, and endurance by teaching about weight transference. The program has been found to enhance balance both mentally and physically and significantly reduces the rate of falls of older adults and improves quality of life. The program is taught by a certified Tai Chi instructor and includes a pre and post balance assessment and a lecture portion on what Tai Chi is and its benefits related to fall prevention. 102 Matter of Balance: Matter of Balance is an evidence base exercise program designed to reduce the fear of falling and increase activity levels among older adults. The program includes eight two hour classes presented to a small group of 8 12 participants led by trained coaches. The program enables participants to reduce the fear of falling by learning to view falls as controllable, setting goals for increasing activity levels, making small changes to reduce fall risks at home, and exercise to increase strength and balance. The curriculum includes group discussions, mutual problem solving, role play activities, exercise training, assertiveness training, and a few homework assignments. Participants learn about the importance of exercise in preventing falls and practice exercises to improve strength, coordination, and balance. Participants also conduct a home safety evaluation and learn to stand up and sit down safely. Additional topics include home safety, assertiveness, developing positive strategies for change, reducing barriers to exercise, identifying physical risk factors for falls, personal action planners, recognizing misconceptions about falls, and moving from self defeating to self motivating thoughts. Class size is between 8 12 participants. Progress and Impact From Sept 2019 until March 2020, the Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention program met twice a week for eight weeks at the Welcome Center, Williston Park Library, and the Garden City Library, implementing the evidence based curriculum described above. During this period, we reached 84 senior citizens. In March 2020, all in person classes were suspended due to COVID 19. In March 2021, the program pivoted to provide the classes virtually and 67 senior citizens participated with some modifications; stated on their post evaluations that their balance had improved because of this program and reported that they will continue in other exercise programs and create a safer environment in their homes. Plans Over the next three years, we plan to reach out to community based organizations, libraries and senior centers to assist them in implementing the Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention, reaching over 250 senior adults. Each class will be assessed through a pre/post balance assessment for all participants. The Matter of Balance program started in May 2022 with a training of the fall prevention staff at the Welcome Center. Over the next three years, the program will be implemented, reaching 100 seniors through the Welcome Center and 100 seniors in partnership with local community based organizations (libraries and senior centers. Here’s what participants said about the program: "I am certain that my ability to walk has become more controlled, and I firmly believe that continuing the Tai Chi will be an asset." "The program helped with my overall well being." "The program did not only strengthen my muscles in my legs and arms, but it was also relaxing and peaceful." "I am much more balanced now than from when I started the class." 103 F. Brooklyn Data Station The Brooklyn Data Station (BKDS) provides the infrastructure to support our several community health needs assessments, to target resources by identifying areas of need, and to monitor trends. Its focus is primarily in Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn, but the Data Station has also provided support for our needs assessments in the Lower East Side and Chinatown and Hempstead. Progress The vision of the Brooklyn Data Station is to provide infrastructure to support users to turn data into action. BKDS provides a suite of services to meet user needs across the data spectrum from finding data, to acquiring data, to storing and analyzing data, and communicating findings. BKDS also supports collaborations and knowledge sharing by leading a Data Analyst Working Group and participating in WebEx Communities facilitated by the Population Health Data Hub. Since September 2019, the Brooklyn Data Station has increased its capacity to support partners through hiring an additional full time community health Data Analyst and is in the process of hiring a full time clinical Data Analyst. Select highlights of the work done since September 2019 are: Data Navigation: • Create and maintain a Sharepoint Community Page for NYULH faculty and staff with curated links to external sources of data and reports for New York City neighborhoods. Data Acquisition: • Work with NYULH legal office to develop a Data Use Agreement with the NYC Dept of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) to acquire restricted use datasets from the Community Health Survey and KIDS surveys; • Work with early childhood programs in Sunset Park to develop REDCap projects for primary data collection in three different languages (English, Spanish and Simplified Chinese), including methods to collect data via Mobile App; • Work with early childhood initiatives to conduct qualitative interviews with school faculty to understand challenges and needs in helping students and families during COVID pandemic; and • Work with the Health X Housing Lab to develop REDCap project for primary data collection and assist with interviews of participants enrolled in an unconditional cash transfer program. BKDSData NavigationData AcquisitionData AnalysisData RepositoryData Communication and Dissemination 104 Data Repository: • Work with MCIT to create restricted use folders on shared research drive to store analytic datasets from various projects including: Arab American Needs Assessment; Community Health Survey; KIDS surveys; Sunset Park Mental Health Survey. Data Analysis: • Work with NYU Center for the Study of Asian American Health (CSAAH)and community partners to analyze data collected for the Brooklyn Arab American Needs Assessment (see Section I.C.2.); • Work with early childhood initiatives in Sunset Park to analyze data from a number of projects including: o Waiting Room Survey: a survey of parents of young children to assess child care arrangements and resources needed to support child development; o COVID Community Engagement Survey: a survey of program participants conducted in the early months of the COVID pandemic to assess social needs and usefulness of text messages sent during virtual engagement activities; o KIDS 2017 and 2019: population based surveys conducted by DOHMH to describe child health and development, including an oversample of Sunset Park children ages 1 to 4 years in 2019; and o Sunset Park Mental Health Survey, 2021: a survey of pregnant women and mothers of children under age five years living in or receiving services in Sunset Park to assess mental health needs and stressors conducted in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese/Mandarin. • Work with Community Service Plan team to summarize demographic, socio economic and health related data for use in Community Health Needs Assessments for neighborhoods of focus (Sunset Park, Red Hook, Lower East Side/Chinatown, Hempstead). Data Communication and Dissemination: • Work with NYU CSAAH and community partners to visualize data collected for the Brooklyn Arab American Needs Assessment and create a slide deck that can be shared with community partners; • Work with Family Health Centers to plan and organize the 2nd and 3rd Annual Community Research Exchange Days, which were held virtually due to COVID, as a way to share knowledge and findings from projects serving FHC patients and communities; and • Work with Community Service Plan team to share findings with community partners in Hempstead obtained from secondary data sources and community surveys to inform the Hempstead Needs Assessment. Plans With the addition of a full time data analyst, BKDS plans to increase its capacity to support partners with clinical data analysis, from NYU Epic data as well as population based sources of health claims data, to better respond to partner needs for clinical health outcomes data. 105 BKDS also plans to develop a user centered digital platform to support collaborations related to early childhood health and development in Sunset Park. The Data Station will also work more closely with Family Health Centers and Community Service Plan partners to develop dashboards to describe clinical and community indicators relevant to supporting population health. G. Dissemination The Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan, together with our Progress Reports, are conspicuously posted on the NYULH internal and external websites with instructions for downloading and in a format that, when accessed, downloaded, viewed, and printed in hard copy, exactly reproduces the image of the report. (http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan). An individual seeking access to these materials is not required to create an account or provide any personally identifiable information. Hard copies of the Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment, Community Service Plan and Progress Reports are available without charge to anyone upon request and are regularly distributed to Community Board members, policymakers, local health centers, community based organizations, community members, and other interested stakeholders. Through our outreach and engagement activities, we continually seek to keep the community informed about our activities and to get feedback and input. For example, this year, we presented and widely distributed the findings from the Arab American survey. The Needs and Assets Assessment for Hempstead, which was developed collaboratively with community partners, is being widely distributed and reviewed by organizations and residents throughout the community. The Executive Summary of our Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan shares our analysis and conclusions in a more accessible format for a broader constituency. This document, which is written at an 8th grade literacy level, has been translated into Arabic, Chinese, and Spanish. In addition, information about the Community Service Plan has been presented at conferences and in presentations to Primary Care Residents, medical students and undergraduate students, often in collaboration with community partners. We plan to conduct similar internal and external presentations for the 2022 2024 CHNAA/CSP. Many of our projects have developed strategies for disseminating information, and providing training and outreach. H. Community Engagement and Health Equity The Community Service Plan Coordinating Council, composed of NYU Langone Health faculty and staff from across the institution, leadership and staff of our community partners, and other interested partners and policymakers, continues to meet every three months. The Council coordinates Community Service Plan projects, ensuring that they are meeting milestones, maximizing their impact, and fostering collaboration across institutions and sectors. We continue to find opportunities to learn and to work across projects and with colleagues throughout the institution and in the community. We also use this forum to distribute information about the NYULH Financial Assistance Policy. 106 In its first year (2013), the Coordinating Council collaboratively developed a set of principles to guide the CSP partnerships. These were incorporated in the memoranda of understanding with partners and provided guidance about information sharing, compensation of partners and community members, and responsibility for dissemination of findings. In 2019, the Council revisited and strengthened these community based participatory principles, and then used those principles as a foundation for bringing a more direct and intentional anti racism focus to the work. In 2020, the Council adopted the following guiding document: Over the course of the past year and a half, each CSP project has selected one or more of these principles as a focus for self assessment and implementation. See Appendix C, which explains the process and expectations. All CSP projects have worked to include deeper participation by community partners and residents, including and compensating people with lived experience as program leaders, on advisory committees, and as speakers and moderators. Guiding principles to increase authentic community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda We commit to: 1. Collaboratively defining the community with which we are working, understanding the causes and consequences of health inequities and the impact of structural racism* on community health and well being, and understanding our roles as individuals and as members or representatives of organizations; 2. Building relationships of trust and appreciation, and to taking the time to continually reflect on, evaluate, and strengthen our collaborative processes; 3. Building on and leveraging strengths and resources within the community; 4. Collaboratively defining the roles of all partners in all phases of the work in a way that leverages expertise, minimizing barriers to participation, particularly for those who have been underrepresented in the past, and ensuring that the contribution of all participants is recognized and appropriately compensated; 5. Learning from each other and building our capacities and skills; 6. Ensuring that all partners have the opportunity and resources to participate in the communication of findings and knowledge gained, recognizing the need for privacy and protecting participants and the community from inadvertent harm; and 7. Making a long term commitment and working to make sustainable change. To hold ourselves accountable, we will: § Collaboratively develop a plan for each initiative, and for the CSP as a whole, to increase authentic community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda; § Develop mechanisms to review our plans, to measure progress, and to learn from our successes and challenges; and § Share what we learn along the way, internally and with other interested collaborations. * As defined by Dr. Mary Bassett and colleagues, “Structural racism refers to the totality of ways in which societies foster racial discrimination through mutually reinforcing systems of housing, education, employment, earnings, benefits, credit, media, health care, and criminal justice. These patterns and practices in turn reinforce discriminatory beliefs, values, and distribution of resources.” 107 For example: § The Health x Housing Lab Advisory Committee includes five members with lived experience of homelessness. The Lab works to minimize barriers to participation by ensuring that Committee members have the materials and equipment they need to fully engage as Committee members. All of the Lab events feature speakers who have experienced homelessness or housing insecurity, recognizing their significant expertise. The Lab’s “Flipping the Script” events explicitly aim to challenge traditional paradigms of who we think of as experts and teachers in medical education, positioning patients with lived experience of homelessness themselves as the expert teachers. § The Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center (CHW RRC) is led by the CHW Learning Committee, made up of four to six CHWs, who guide CHW RRC programming and professional development activities. The quarterly wellness survey for the CHWs, which was prepared collaboratively with the Learning Committee, led to the creation of monthly mental health support groups and other programming and support services. All of the CHW RRC programs, which are attended by hundreds of frontline workers and health professionals across the country, are moderated by CHWs. The CHW RRC has also organized a two session panel for 3rd year medical students, introducing them to the role of CHWs and exploring how medical students and physicians can work effectively with this workforce. This event has now been incorporated into the medical school’s social determinants of health curriculum. § Similarly, much of REACH FAR’s pandemic outreach and education has been led by CHWs, who, as members of the affected communities, have been able to reach community members with accurate information by engaging trusted leaders, and moderating and translating at community events. § In all of its hiring decisions, ParentChild+ has incorporated community voice, including current and former families. The program is also implementing a Community Ambassador program as a pathway for program graduates to provide education and support for other community parents regarding early childhood development and language and literacy skill building. § ParentCorps established the Sunset Park ParentCorps Community Advisory Board (CAB) in September 2020, including leaders from six pre K programs and one elementary school. The CAB also includes a racially, ethnically, linguistically and positionally diverse team of six individuals from NYU’s Center for Early Childhood Health and Development, who are active participants in meetings and collectively assessed the process and progress of the CAB. The CAB members have discussed racism and discrimination in the school system and in the community, sharing their personal stories as well as insights into structural racism. ParentCorps, which has worked on issues of racial equity for many years, has provided assistance to other CSP projects, including the Greenlight program, that are developing community advisory boards, and has shared equity tools and frameworks. One of the Health x Housing Lab’s five values statements, which were written together with the Advisory Committee, focuses on racism explicitly: “Systemic racism—which has produced inequities in housing and health—must be confronted directly, including in developing, conducting, and disseminating research.” This values statement reflects our long term commitment of working toward making sustainable change. 108 § Project SAFE peer educators participate in interviews of all new staff hires and are involved in the development, dissemination, and review of program evaluation tools. Annual “Data Dialogues” are used to share back and discuss program implementation and outcome data to teens, staff, and other program stakeholders. These dialogues serve to inform continuous program improvement and adaptation. Notably, Project SAFE staff and youth revised the language in the CBPA principles to make them more youth friendly, and program youth monitor how effectively the program adheres to the CBPA/equity principles. To ensure that program participants feel safe and supported, Project SAFE created a harassment reporting form and added questions to the quarterly evaluation form to assess how welcome and safe youth feel expressing their racial, gender, or sexual identities in the program. CSP initiatives are also educating program leadership, staff and their communities about the historic roots of the inequities that the programs are intended to address and are developing responsive strategies. For example: § The Brooklyn Consortium has established a Diversity Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (DEIA) workgroup with the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, composed of eight representatives from community based organizations. The workgroup has helped to develop a Leadership Survey to identify strengths and experiences among Board and Steering Committee leadership and opportunities for bringing new voices to the table. The workgroup is planning a DEIA training and is developing a plan to support policies and practices that address the impact of structural racism on health and housing through research and advocacy, cross sector relationships, and training. § ParentChild+ has selected program materials that can spur conversations about race, and has supported and educated staff in understanding biases. The program prioritizes an anti bias and diverse approach to curricular book choices, including more books that feature people of various races and ethnicities (not just those of program families). Staff are trained and supported to elicit and engage families in the resulting conversations about race. Program leadership is working with staff to recognize and discuss their own biases. § REACH FAR has worked with imams of two mosques, Assafa Islamic Center and Brooklyn Islamic Center, who delivered two Friday sermons on anti racism and equality in Islamic belief, reaching about 500 congregants. § ParentCorp partners with multiple partners to understand the impact of structural racism and to promote anti racist practices. For example, in its Professional Learning session focused on Culturally Responsive Education, pre K teachers and leaders are guided to reflect on their own identities and biases, and how they may affect the classroom environment; to navigate conversations about race (using an established framework and tools from Courageous Conversations about Race); to learn strategies for addressing their discomfort; and to incorporate Culturally Responsive Education into daily classroom practice. I. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures The Coordinating Council will continue to oversee program implementation, work collaboratively to find points of synergy across programs and neighborhoods, and assess progress and make mid course corrections. In addition, each program collects data about levels of participation, participant 109 satisfaction, and impact on health and well being. This is done through attendance records, surveys, and other forms of data collection. Attached as Appendix E is a table summarizing goals and performance measures, together with sources of data to be used to measure outcomes for each CSP project. Appendices A. Data sources and references consulted B. Input from persons who represent the broad interests of the community C. Guiding principles to increase authentic community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda D. Evidence base for programs E. Anticipated impact and performance measures Appendix A Data Sources, References Consulted, and Methodology Notes I. Secondary Data American Community Survey US Census Bureau Demographic, housing, health insurance, and socioeconomic factors. Data obtained from: • US Census Bureau (2015 2019) • NYC Department of City Planning Population Fact Finder (2006 2010; 2015 2019) • Census Reporter (2015 2019) Census 2000 2020 US Census Bureau Population and housing counts from decennial US Census. Data obtained from: • US Census Bureau (2000, 2010, 2020) • NYC Department of City Planning Population Fact Finder (2020) City Health Dashboard NYU Langone Health Social and health indicators for large cities, including COVID risk. Data obtained from: • City Health Dashboard Community Health Survey NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Health behaviors, health outcomes and access to care by race/ethnicity, neighborhood poverty and housing type. Data obtained from: • NYC Health Department EpiQuery (2002 2017) • NYU analysis of data obtained from DOHMH (2015 2016; 2017 2018; 2019 2020) Eviction Filings Eviction Lab Eviction filings and claim amounts by zip code and race/ethnicity. Data obtained from: • Eviction Tracking System (2020 2021) Feeding America Child Food Insecurity Rate Impact of