September 2024 1 New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment SECTION A: SUMMARY 1. Title of project NYU Langone Health Westchester ASC 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Jenné Massie, DrPH, MS • Melissa Corrado, MBA • Sydne Ashford 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has more than 25 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with almost 25 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is professor of Urban Education and Senior Associate Dean for Strategic Academic Initiatives at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health equity curriculum. Jenné Massie is the Deputy Director of the Intersectionality Research Institute and a Faculty Senior Research Associate and Project Director for the MOCHA Lab at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She also September 2024 2 serves as a Commissioner of the DC Department of Health Regional Planning Commission on Health and HIV and the Chair of the Community Engagement and Education Committee. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. Sydne Ashford is a Consulting Associate in CohnReznick’s Healthcare Industry Practice. She serves ambulatory care facilities, such as Federally Qualified Health Centers, hospitals, and mental health focused organizations, and specializes in Medicaid rate setting and cost reporting, financial and regulatory reporting, financial feasibility studies, and financial and operational performance. She also supports program development and strategic business planning efforts. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 06/07/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 09/16/2024 7. Executive summary of project (250 words max) NYU Langone Health (NYULH) proposes adding a location for orthopedic services in Westchester County at 4 Westchester Park Drive, West Harrison NY 10604. This will enable patients in and closer to Westchester to access orthopedic services closer to home. Currently, NYULH patients residing in Westchester and as well as some patients outside the service area have to travel to Manhattan for orthopedic services, which creates time and cost burdens for patients. Traveling to and within Manhattan is burdensome for all patients and some medically underserved groups who face the greatest burdens from traveling to Manhattan. Once the project is completed, patients will still receive care from their same providers. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) The stakeholder engagement revealed multiple overall benefits of the orthopedic ambulatory services being expanded to Westchester. These benefits include reduced travel time because of access to local services; easier access to surgery in terms of parking and building access; and reduced or eliminated costs in travel fees, such as gas, parking fees, and toll fees. While this applies to all patient populations, including the racial and ethnic minorities and women who, similar to previous years, are expected to comprise a significant portion of the patient population, feedback from our meaningful engagement showed a significant impact on people with disabilities and September 2024 3 mobility issues (e.g., in need of hip or knee replacement), older adults, low income people, and persons living in rural areas. Stakeholders expressed a desire to have imaging, testing, and rehabilitation services onsite at the proposed ambulatory surgery center. Other stakeholders emphasized ways to ensure greater access by providing supportive services, partnering with providers that serve medically underserved groups, having evening and weekend hours, and making financing options available. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area Please see attached the completed “Scoping Table” Sheets 1 and 2 in the HEIA Data Tables provided with this assessment. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project:  Low income people  Racial and ethnic minorities ❑ Immigrants  Women ❑ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people  People with disabilities  Older adults ❑ Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition  Persons living in rural areas ❑ People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits ❑ People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage ❑ Other people who are unable to obtain health care ❑ Not listed (specify): 3. Sources of information for identification of medically underserved: For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? We leveraged the Applicant’s internal data to identify the medically underserved groups that would be impacted by the project. While robust internal data is collected, it did not September 2024 4 reflect disability status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2021 • Older adults internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Persons living in rural areas American Community Survey, 2021 Overall, a combination of internal and external data sources was used to identify the medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project. 4. Unique health needs or quality of life of medically underserved groups: How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Currently, NYULH patients residing in Westchester and as well as some patients outside the service area have to travel to Manhattan for orthopedic services. The Applicant has multiple sites in Manhattan for orthopedic services. The travel time can be significant for those patients. For example, a patient from Peekskill, NY would have to drive over 3 hours roundtrip to get to and from the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital at 301 E 17th St, New York, NY 10003, not including potential traffic, time to park, and time to get to and from their appointment. In addition to the time patients must spend traveling to and within Manhattan, they must spend money for gas, tolls, and parking. As described below, traveling to and within Manhattan is especially burdensome for low income people, patients with disabilities and limited mobility, older adults, persons living in rural areas, and racial and ethnic minorities and women. The proposed project will add a location for orthopedic services in Westchester at 4 Westchester Park Drive, West Harrison NY 10604. This will enable patients in and closer to Westchester to access care closer to home, while still scheduling appointments and receiving care with the same department and their same providers. The proposed changes will improve the patient experience for all medically underserved groups by facilitating care and access closer to the patients’ home and reducing the need to travel to Manhattan. We expect the greatest positive impact of this new location will be experienced by: September 2024 5 • Low income people who will not have to spend excessive time traveling to Manhattan—and therefore, lose income through missed work—or spend additional money on gas, tolls, and parking. • People with disabilities or limited mobility and older adults will not have the burden of traveling long distances or navigating Manhattan for services. At the new site, they will have access to valet parking and sidewalks and curbs that are more accessible to those that require mobility support (e.g., wheelchairs, canes, walkers, etc.). • Persons living in rural areas who often have limited or no access to services where they live will also have access to services closer to where they live. • Racial and ethnic minorities and women in the service area who will benefit from having access to orthopedic services closer to home. Of the patients residing in the service area for Calendar Year 2022 (CY22) and seen at NYULH for outpatient orthopedics services, identified as racial minorities, identified as ethnic minorities, and identified as women. 5. Current and expected utilization by medically underserved groups: To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? Of the patients residing in Westchester County and seen at NYULH for outpatient orthopedics services in CY22, identified as racial minorities, identified as ethnic minorities, and identified as women. According to SPARCs market data for Westchester County in CY22, of the ambulatory surgery patients receiving musculoskeletal surgery, 9. of patients rely on Medicaid as their primary source of payment (with Medicaid as primary source of payment as a proxy for the low income population). The Applicant expects that improvements to patient satisfaction will attract new patients to NYULH, and it is anticipated that service utilization by all medically underserved groups will not decrease. As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to people with disabilities. Therefore, we are unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to this group. 6. Availability of similar services or care: What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? The following facilities are licensed to provide ambulatory surgery in Westchester County. (Source: NYS Health Profiles) Facility Specialties Location Montefiore Mount Vernon Hospital Multi specialty Westchester Montefiore New Rochelle Hospital Multi specialty Westchester New York Presbyterian Westchester Multi specialty Westchester September 2024 6 New York Presbyterian Hudson Valley Hospital Multi specialty Westchester Northern Westchester Hospital Multi specialty Westchester Phelps Hospital Multi specialty Westchester SJRH Dobbs Ferry Pavilion Multi specialty Westchester SJRH St Johns Division Multi specialty Westchester St. Joseph’s Medical Center Multi specialty Westchester Westchester Medical Center Multi specialty Westchester White Plains Hospital Center/The Ambulatory Surgery Center at Harrison ENT, Ortho, Plastics Westchester 7. Historical and projected market shares: What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? For the purposes of this project, market share was determined with procedure product line for musculoskeletal ambulatory surgery for patients in the project service area of Westchester County. Based on SPARCS data from New York State Department of Health, NYULH held on average 2. 2. of the orthopedic market in Westchester from 2021 to 2023. Adult Ambulatory Surgical Orthopedic Volumes for Westchester County Health System 2021 Volume 2021 Market Share 2022 Volume 2022 Market Share 2023 Volume 2023 Market Share Montefiore Health 2,258 20. 2,448 22. 3,089 29. Rye Surgery Center 1,248 11. 1,210 10. 937 8. New York Presbyterian 1,193 10. 1,215 10. 932 8.95 Northwell Health 941 8. 974 8. 979 9. Hospital for Special Surgery 769 7. 724 6. 820 7. Riverside Health 704 6. 742 6. 636 6. ASC of Westchester 578 5. 563 5. 407 3. Yorktown Center for Specialty Surgery 599 5. 650 5. 274 2. WMC Health 432 3. 452 4. 505 4. NYU Langone Health 243 2. 252 2. 272 2. All Others 2,000 18. 1,892 17. 1,660 15. Grand Total 10,965 11,122 10,511 Source: SPARCs 2021 2023 Ambulatory Surgery Dataset; Filtered on CPT Product Line for Musculoskeletal Surgery. Between 2021 and 2023, adult orthopedic volume decreased by 4. in Westchester County. Facilities serving patients in the service area observed varied trends in patient September 2024 7 volumes from CY21 to CY22 to CY23, with some experiencing increases while others saw declines. Additionally, market share assumptions are difficult to ascertain because a hospital’s market position in any given service line depends largely on the activities of other hospitals (e.g., service line expansions, closures), which generally cannot be predicted. 8. Performance of obligations: Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to the Applicant, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit healthcare system, the Applicant provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay, and the Applicant has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. The NYULH Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). In addition, the Applicant offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23. (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement NYULH received for that care in FY23.) How the project will affect obligations NYULH’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Community services N/A. The project will not be changing the Applicant’s obligations. Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents NYULH is projecting that approximately of encounters at the new site will be from Medicaid patients in year one. (Total payor mix includes Medicare, Commercial, Medicaid, and all other.) According to SPARCs market data, at the Westchester County level for ambulatory surgery patients for musculoskeletal surgery, the payer mix in 2022 was 31. public health insurance coverage (22. September 2024 8 Medicare alone or in combination and 9. Medicaid alone or in combination), 40. private health insurance coverage, and 10. uninsured. Medical surgical beds/people served/residents N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 9. Project’s impact on staffing: Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. No negative impacts are expected. Patients will schedule the same way they do currently and will be seen by the same surgeons and the same department but closer to home. The Applicant’s Schedule 13 notes an increase in FTEs from 47.0 to 65.0 between the first and third year of operation after opening. The Applicant confirmed it will use the same tactics it uses to staff other Ambulatory Surgery sites. The Applicant has standard processes related to staffing, including analyzing volume trends and regularly assessing staffing needs based on patient volume, care models, and service demands. The Applicant also deploys recruitment and retention strategies such as those related to salaries and professional development to attract and retain staff. 10. Civil rights access complaints: Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation: ▪ 1 related to disability access ▪ 2 related to gender discrimination • 11 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed ▪ 5 related to disability discrimination ▪ 1 related to national origin discrimination ▪ 2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color ▪ 1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation September 2024 9 o 1 related to discrimination on the basis of disability, military status, national origin, domestic violence victim status, relationship or association, and opposed discrimination/retaliation is pending an open investigation. 11. Similar projects/work in the last five years: Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. The NYULH Orthopedics department has not made an investment of this nature (i.e., an Ambulatory Surgery Center) in Westchester County in the past. The Department has undertaken other multi specialty Ambulatory Surgical Centers in Manhattan (333 East 38th Street and 171 Delancey Street) and Patchogue, Suffolk County (196 Main Street). This project in Westchester is similar in the type of building being constructed but is in a different service area, serving a different patient population. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. Intended impacts on health care access, health equity, and health disparities: For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a) Improve access to services and health care; b) Improve health equity; and c) Reduce health disparities Since orthopedic services cut across all patient groups, there will be a positive impact on each medically underserved group identified in Step 1, Question 2 with some additional benefits for some groups. The primary benefit will be improved access to local orthopedic services for patients residing in Westchester as well as some patients outside the service area. Because they will be able to access services closer to their homes, it removes the burden of having to travel to Manhattan and the time and costs associated with that travel. This will especially improve access and health equity for medically underserved groups who experience the greatest burden, namely low income people who will not have to risk losing income due to missed work and travel costs, people with disabilities or limited mobility and older adults for whom any travel and accessing care in Manhattan can be difficult, people living rural areas who have limited or no local services available and would also have to incur travel costs to Manhattan, and racial and ethnic minorities and women in the service area, who have comprised a significant portion of previous patients, and will also benefit from having access to orthopedic services closer to home. The project may reduce health disparities if all patients, including those most burdened by the current state, are able to access and receive more of the recommended care and services. September 2024 10 2. Unintended impacts: For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. The Independent Entity does not anticipate any unintended negative impacts to health equity expected as a result of the project. There are the intended positive impacts described in response to Question 2.1.b and 2.1.c, In addition to the impacts already stated, the Applicant expects the project and the more accessible space to solve some of the access issues they heard from patients who use wheelchairs. 3. Indigent care: How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. The new site in Westchester is designed to enhance accessibility while maintaining service levels. Upon reviewing the Applicant’s projected budget and operational forecasts, it is anticipated that the amount of indigent care currently provided by the Applicant will not change. The Applicant covered approximately $93 million in charity care in FY23. 4. Access by transportation: Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant's service(s) or care if the project is implemented. Currently, NYULH patients travelling for orthopedic care reside in Westchester as well as some patients outside the service area travel by either public or private transportation. The new facility located in Westchester County will bring care closer to their homes. Patients using private transportation are accompanied by family members and other caretakers. For these patients, the facility will offer valet parking at the main entrance. Some patients may take public transportation such as subway, bus, and train. Access to those forms of transportation depends on where the patient lives. The site location is nearby a variety of public transit stops that allow for accessible access for patients travelling to the center via public transit. Bee Line Bus 82 (Loop B) stops right in front of the site. Additionally, Bee Line Bus 3, 12, 13, and 62 stop at the intersection of Westchester Avenue and Gannet Drive, which is 0.2 miles from the site. The Applicant also has a process for patients who need to get to and from their appointments but are unable to cover the cost. In these cases, the hospital organizes and supports the cost of transportation to ensure they can access their care in a safe and timely manner. This is available to patients who express a need, regardless of their income status. September 2024 11 5. Architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments: Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. This project will make it easier for patients with mobility impairments to access care since the location will be closer to their homes, and they will not have to travel into a Manhattan and manage uneven sidewalks and curbs, which are difficult to navigate with wheelchairs, walkers, etc. The facility will have handicap parking and ramps built to ADA compliance and building codes. 6. Reproductive health services and maternal health care N/A due to orthopedic focus of the project. MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT 7. List of local health department(s) Westchester County Department of Health 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? The Independent Entity conducted an interview about the potential impact of this project with Dr. Sherlita Amler, Commissioner of Health for the Westchester County Department of Health. Dr. Amler indicated that an ambulatory surgery center would be welcomed medical care in Westchester County and particularly in White Plains, as its central location will broaden access for county residents to have surgical procedures closer to home. She also noted that the location ensured that if a patient needed a hospital admission, they would not have to travel a long distance to receive care. Dr. Amler highlighted that Westchester County’s large population of older adults would benefit from this facility. She noted that there are several retirement communities in Westchester and residents of those communities, as well as older individuals throughout the county in general, would now be able to receive these services without having to go into Manhattan, which she saw as a real benefit. She also stressed that not having to travel long distances is important for people who face challenges with transportation in the county, including people who do not have a car. Dr. Amler noted that Westchester County is currently, and has since COVID, been experiencing long delays in residents getting access to primary care appointments. She underscored throughout the interview that this may be a barrier for individuals having access to the ambulatory surgery center. Without a primary care provider to make a referral for an appointment with a specialist, such as an orthopedist, she expressed concern with how patients will have access to it. From an equity perspective, she said this particularly would be a barrier for newly arrived immigrants and non English September 2024 12 speakers. She also highlighted this issue for individuals with mobility issues and people who are homebound, noting the barriers they face to getting specialist referrals from primary care doctors for orthopedic services. Finally, Dr. Amler expressed concern about access to the facility for low income individuals and people without insurance. She perceives that the county’s Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHCs) are overwhelmed, and thus the low income individuals who rely on these sites for healthcare are not necessarily getting in for primary care and thereby referred to needed orthopedic care. Similarly, uninsured individuals may not get appointments with primary care physicians because of their lack of insurance and thus would present a barrier for referrals. Dr. Amler’s verbatim statement can be found in the Meaningful Engagement tab of the HEIA Data Table. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders Please see attached the completed “Meaningful Engagement” table in the HEIA Data Tables template provided with this assessment. 10. Most affected community members: Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern the project or offered relevant input? The stakeholder interviews revealed multiple overall benefits of the orthopedic ambulatory services being expanded to Westchester. These benefits include reduced travel time because of access to local services; easier access to surgery in terms of parking and building access; and reduced or eliminated costs in travel fees, such as gas, parking fees, and toll fees. While this applies to all patient populations, including the racial and ethnic minorities and women who, similar to previous years, are expected to comprise a significant portion of the patient population, feedback from our meaningful engagement showed a significant impact on the following medically underserved groups: • Older adults • People with disabilities, particularly with mobility issues (e.g., in need of hip or knee replacement) • Low income people • Persons living in rural areas Stakeholders expressed a desire to have imaging and testing services (e.g., MRI, X ray, etc.) and rehabilitation services all onsite at the proposed ambulatory surgery center. This would further alleviate travel and cost burden for orthopedic patients and allow for more continuity of care for patients throughout their pre op, surgery, and follow up experiences. September 2024 13 The Applicant verified that patients at the new location will not have to travel to Manhattan to get any pre or post op and imaging done. Any X rays and lab work needed by patients who will undergo surgery at the new location will be able to get that done onsite. For routine work, there are also imaging, lab and therapy sites under development in Westchester, in addition to the Applicant’s current faculty group practice office in White Plains. The Applicant also plans to have physical therapy in the same building. Other stakeholders emphasized ways to ensure greater access to all patients, especially low income patients and those who receive Medicaid and those who are uninsured, by providing supportive services, partnering with providers who serve medically underserved groups, having accessible hours, and making financing options available. 11. Results of engaging community members: How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? As part of our meaningful engagement of stakeholders, we spoke with 12 stakeholders about the project. We conducted 8 patient interviews, 1 interview with the Director of Care Management and Social Work for Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone, 1 interview with a local community based organization, 1 interview with a local health department official, and 1 interview with a local FQHC primary care physician. The stakeholders we spoke to included 3 members of a racial or ethnic minority group, 4 individuals aged 65 or over, 1 person living with a disability, and 2 people living in rural areas. All Patients The stakeholder interviews enabled us to identify perceived benefits of the proposed orthopedic ambulatory services in Westchester. One main benefit will be localized care within one location, such as testing services before and after a surgery. One patient explained how she had to travel 1.5 hours to Manhattan for a 4 minute test, which can be cost prohibitive and impractical for many people. She discussed: “I went down [to Manhattan] for a 4 minute test and it cost me like $22, and that’s obviously with no parking. It’s all parking lots in Manhattan…It’s scary for a lot of people. I’m a city girl, so it doesn’t bother me, but it’s very expensive no matter what you do. It’s just expensive to just park. But if you do anything in White Plains, there’s a lot of parking lots, you know, open parking lots. It’s just so much more easier to park and free pretty much.” (Patient 1). September 2024 14 The community based representative also discussed how the new location will also be a benefit for all residents in the area. “I’ve worked in senior living within Westchester, so I know even not just [elder care facility]. But other facilities will appreciate having this facility in Westchester… I think not only just for seniors, but just for the general community. It would be beneficial, because a lot of people are moving from New York City to Westchester…having that connection within New York City hospital, a New York City big name hospital. Then it's gonna it will be beneficial to the community.” (Community based Representative). Ultimately, having an orthopedic ambulatory surgery center in White Plains makes access to services easier for all populations in Westchester County or closer to the Westchester area. One patient summarized it as removing barriers to care: “It would be an easier way to use more doctors and to get the closer to home service…Thoughts on having the ambulatory service in White Plains is gonna be a plus for everyone coming north, coming South, East, West, it'll take the burden and the fare of people going into the city to be in White Plains. It's more relaxed and the same service that we're gonna have, I think it's a plus all around for everything, anything you're gonna do. White Plains is definitely a place to be in.” (Patient 1). Another patient captured the overall positive response to the idea of having these services locally when they said: “I think that’s great. Instead of making a trip to the city which would take up towards an hour, hour and a half to get there, being so close where I live, I think it’s great.” (Patient 3). As stated, other patients expressed a desire to have all the services they need at the new location, including imaging, testing, and rehabilitation. “I think it’s a good idea, but as I said, then you can’t complete the deal in White Plains, it’s not worth it.” (Patient 6) A local FQHC primary care physician also mentioned that there is a need for sports medicine in the area. Older Adults As reflected in the oversampling of older adults in our community engagement, orthopedic services often serve greater numbers of older adults, especially for hip and knee replacements. The location of the proposed orthopedic ambulatory services in Westchester has a large community of residential and elder care homes in the area. September 2024 15 The older adult population in the area is growing as the cost of living in Manhattan is growing. A community based organizational representative of an elder care home explained: “People are moving into the area because the cost of NYC. There are new buildings in Westchester, White Plains, and New Rochelle as people are not wanting the hustle and bustle of NYC but still want the same access to the same care.” (Community Based Representative). Opening an ambulatory surgery center in this location will help meet the orthopedic needs of this growing older population in Westchester County, making it easier for them to receive services closer to home and avoid the “stress and chaos,” as described by one patient about traveling to Manhattan for surgery. People with Disabilities Generally orthopedic patients have functional limitations, especially patients needing hip or knee replacements. Getting to the Manhattan site with mobility issues becomes more prohibitive, as there is no area to pull up to the entrance with a car or valet parking services to ease getting into the building. One patient explained: “It’s easier again, people with disabilities to get to, in my opinion, places in Westchester than it is to New York City. If I’m in New York City, I’m going to go to a hospital in New York City. If I’m in Westchester, I much prefer a facility here in Westchester.” (Patient 2). The Westchester location would have availability for patients to pull up to the building for drop off, easing the stress and logistics of navigating getting to their appointments while struggling with mobility issues. Another patient discussed the burden of going to Manhattan from a caregiver’s perspective. This required extra time and cost, as she was unable to drive herself given the need for a new hip. The patient said: “My wife had a hip replacement at NY Langone going into the city. I mean, going down there at 6 am in the morning, staying there the whole day, and then she was released at 3 o’clock in the afternoon…so definitely [positive] in terms of not having to commute in traffic…pay for parking, for tolls.” (Patient 3). The Director of Social Work stressed the need to assess patients’ living situation and supports at home when considering the functionality of individuals with disabilities or mobility issues related to their orthopedic surgery who will be going home after their procedure in an ambulatory setting like the one proposed. As she highlighted, anyone going to ambulatory surgery will need a support person for transportation to and from the site and will need a stable place to recover with someone able to help them with September 2024 16 daily functioning post surgery. She highlighted the importance of the care team assessing patients’ current living situations and what kind of help they may need at home following their procedure. The Applicant verified the process that they use to assess needs and ensure support. For example, patients having elective joint replacement surgery receive a phone call from a nurse clinical care coordinator (CCC) in advance of their surgery. In that call, an assessment is completed to determine the patient’s home situation, available caregiving supports, and any needs for resources in anticipation of a discharge home following surgery. These questions specifically assess a patient’s current functioning and needs for support in their activities of daily living as well as any assistive devices needed. The nurse CCC also provides education about what to expect post surgery, including length of stay in the hospital, medications, homecare, and other topics related to discharge planning. Referrals to homecare services are made based on patient choice and in advance of surgery. Low Income People Although none of the stakeholders identified as low income, all the patients expressed concerns about the current cost of getting to NYU Langone in Manhattan and how these costs become more prohibitive