Revised: January 4, 2021 12.6 Where work requires penetrating a floor, the contractor or manager shall use GPR to detect in slab utilities. The contractor shall also use an appropriate device to detect utilities within wall cavities prior to the start of demolition (e.g., wall scanner for drywall, GPR for masonry). 12.7 Contractor shall not use existing building receptacles unless approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager. 12.8 Where a temporary electrical panel is to be employed outdoors, contractor shall properly protect the panel against exposure to water, and the panel shall be equipped with Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI) breakers. 12.9 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that electrical cables are not run on the ground, through doorways, or in direct contact with conductive materials or sharp edges where they are subject to pinching or chafing. 12.10 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that live electrical panels are covered and locked when not being worked on and that a controlled access zone is in place around a live, open panel during work. 12.11 The contractor shall have a licensed electrical contractor install a temporary lighting and power system in the construction area. At owned sites, these temporary systems shall be connected to the building’s electrical service by a Facilities electrician or authorized vendor. At leased sites, this connection shall be made by the building manager’s authorized vendor. The temporary power system shall employ ground fault circuit interrupter breakers or otherwise be maintained under an assured equipment grounding program 12.12 The PM shall review and plan the installation of new, or modification of existing, fuel oil tanks and piping with EH&S. 13.0 Control of Hazardous Materials and Infection / Air Contaminants 13.1 Prior to the start of work, the PM or manager shall:  request the necessary environmental surveys (e.g. asbestos, lead, soil) from EH&S, provide copies to affected personnel and complete any necessary abatement.  request an ICRA permit via the ATG system. The contractor or Facilities trade staff shall comply with all requirements set forth in this permit. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 19 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  arrange for removal of NYULH supplies, equipment, furniture and records from the space. Immovable items shall be protected against dust intrusion and physical damage. 13.2 The non construction side of all partitions shall be washable. 13.3 Contractor shall use the Edge Guard partition system (www.edge guard.com), a system that provides equivalent protection (e.g., dust and security) or a mobile containment unit (e.g. Clean Work Booth, or Kontrol Kube) for short duration work in occupied areas. 13.4 The PM, manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  108a: Hazardous Waste from Construction and Building Maintenance  121: Hazard Communication Program  144: Lead Management Program  159: Asbestos Management Program 13.5 Managers and contractors shall:  ensure personnel have asbestos awareness training and do not disturb suspect asbestos containing material (ACM)  validate that an asbestos survey was completed prior to undertaking any work that may disturb suspect ACM  immediately stop work, secure the area, and contact EH&S or the PM, respectively if suspect ACM is found at any point during the course of the project. 13.6 To ensure the safety of building occupants, staff and contractor personnel, PMs, managers and contractors who will disturb surfaces coated with lead containing paint (e.g. walls, metal painted surfaces, etc.) shall maintain compliance with:  the OSHA Standard for Lead in Construction. At a minimum, this means having a written lead control program; providing OSHA lead training; conducting an exposure assessment; providing appropriate PPE during the exposure assessment; maintaining proper housekeeping; ensuring vacuums are HEPA filtered; providing handwashing facilities; communicating the exposure assessment results to impacted workers; and maintaining records. There are additional requirements if the exposure monitoring shows exposures above OSHA’s Action Level. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 20 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  NYULH requirements for controlling air contaminants during construction work (e.g., containment barriers; negative pressure; frequent changing of pre filters on HEPA filtered equipment).  all applicable requirements of NYULH Safety Policy 144, Lead Management Program.  NYULH requirements for segregating waste paint chips/flakes that contain lead.  All metal painted surfaces (e.g. structural members, lintels, tanks, etc.) are presumed to contain lead which shall be abated as necessary to prevent the release of lead fume while performing hot work. 13.7 The PM, manager and contractor shall comply with all provisions contained in NYULH Safety Policy 144, in dealing with lead shielding materials. 13.8 Managers and contractors shall ensure that their personnel comply with the respective OSHA general industry (1910.1053) or construction (1926.1153) Respirable Crystalline Silica standard. 13.9 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall employ appropriate engineering controls (e.g., exhaust ventilation, power tools with HEPA vacuum attachments, wet methods) when performing dust, smoke, vapor and fume producing work indoors and outdoors. A HEPA vacuum shall be kept in the work area to clean the site and for personnel to clean dust from their clothing. 13.10 Contractor shall plan and coordinate with the PM, Facilities or the building manager, and an ACSP all work to be performed in close proximity to an occupied building’s air intakes to ensure proper controls are in place. 13.11 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure the perimeter of the site is smoke tight, supply and return HVAC registers are sealed with sheet metal, and that the site is maintained under negative pressure at all times, with air exhausted directly outdoors. Where exhausting air outdoors is not feasible, the PM or manager shall assess alternatives with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP prior to start of work (e.g., neutral air pressure with HEPA units). 13.12 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall not use the building’s return air system to exhaust air out of the construction space, or exhaust air from the construction space to a clinical or other occupied area. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 21 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 13.13 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall place a sticky mat immediately inside each site door and change it as necessary to capture dust (e.g., on workers’ shoes or cart wheels). 13.14 Contractor shall ensure that the ends of ductwork delivered to, and staged in, the site are sealed with plastic film to keep dust out. 13.15 The PM shall notify the architect that all chemical products, including roofing and waterproofing, must meet the EH&S requirements contained in the NYULH Design Guidelines document. Where the only feasible product is non compliant, the PM shall ask EH&S to review the product and the application site. Contractor shall maintain a Safety Data Sheet on site for each chemical product. 13.16 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that a fume extractor (smoke eater) is in use at the point of all welding and other smoke/odor producing hot work. 13.17 Contractor shall ensure that all debris containers are wiped down and capped/sealed with plastic prior to leaving indoor work areas. 13.18 The PM or manager shall arrange for terminal cleaning of the work area prior to the return of occupants. 13.19 The contractor shall comply with all NYULH and NYC/NYS Covid 19 requirements. 14.0 Fall Prevention and Protection 14.1 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  160: Fall Prevention and Protection  163: Ladders, Scaffolds and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms 15.0 Demolition 15.1 The PM or manager shall schedule a “Time out” with an ACSP prior to the start of demolition to ensure that all necessary protection and controls are in place. 15.2 Manager or contractor shall plan and conduct all demolition work in a safe, controlled and prudent manner and in accordance with OSHA 1926 subpart T, the NYC and NYS Building Codes and the provisions of NFPA 241. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 22 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 15.3 The PM or manager shall plan the demolition of mechanical systems, including tanks and pressure vessels, with EH&S to ensure they have been properly emptied, purged and certified devoid of pressure, flammable, combustible or toxic gases, liquids and/or other hazardous materials (e.g. oil, lead based paint, etc.). 16.0 Excavation, Foundation and Erection 16.1 For trenches and excavations greater than 4 feet in depth, contractor shall ensure ladder access at 25 foot intervals. Contractor shall ensure that trenches and excavations 5 feet or greater in depth are properly sloped, benched or protected by an engineer designed shoring or shielding system. The contractor’s designated competent person shall inspect excavations daily and ensure all hazards are properly controlled. 16.2 Contractor shall protect the topside perimeter of the excavation/foundation with a guard rail system (top rail, mid rail and toe board). 16.3 Contractor shall install shoring and concrete formwork in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and the NYS registered design professional’s stamped drawings. 16.4 Contractor shall cap rebar which poses an impalement or laceration hazard. Contractor shall not use rebar as a fence post. 17.0 Power Tools and Equipment 17.1 All power tools and equipment used within buildings and on roofs, shall be electric powered. 17.2 The PM or manager shall review any proposed outdoor use of fuel powered equipment with an ACSP. Where diesel powered equipment represents the only feasible option, it shall be equipped with a tier 4 engine or a diesel particulate filter reviewed by an ACSP. 17.3 Power tools and equipment shall be used and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. A GFCI device shall be used with power tools, extension cords and equipment. 17.4 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall inspect all power tools and equipment prior to use. Tools and equipment missing the manufacturer’s supplied Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 23 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 guards, found to contain a defect or otherwise not functioning properly shall be removed from service. 18.0 Exterior Material Handling, Crane, Hoist and Rigging Operations 18.1 The PM and Contractor shall plan all exterior material handling, crane and other rigging operations with an ACSP at least 3 weeks in advance. All potentially impacted parties shall be included in the planning. These operations shall be performed in accordance with OSHA 1926 subparts H, N, R and CC, and all local laws. 18.2 The Contractor shall provide a crane logistics plan and rigging diagram and have a NYS Professional Engineer (P.E.) assess exterior ground conditions for equipment placement. Contractor shall avoid picks which meet the OSHA 1926.751 definition of a “critical lift” (load exceeds of the lifting equipment’s rated capacity), where feasible, by breaking down picks to reduce weight, or specifying lifting equipment with greater capacity. Where this is not feasible, the pick shall be approved by an ACSP. 18.3 The PM shall have all interior surfaces that rigged material or equipment will travel over assessed by a NYS Structural Engineer. 18.4 Rigging shall be inspected daily prior to use by the contractor’s designated competent person. A log of these inspections shall be kept. Any damaged rigging is to be immediately removed from service and the site. Chafing protection is to be employed whenever rigging may come into contact with sharp edges. 18.5 Contractor shall not pick loads over people or occupied vehicles. Where loads must be picked into or over an occupied building, at a minimum, the two floors below shall be vacated unless specifically authorized by the AHJs (e.g. building department, NYS Department of Health). 18.6 The contractor shall install and maintain any personnel hoist in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications, OSHA 1926 subpart N, the ANSI A10.4 standard, the approved NYS P.E. drawing and all local laws. The personnel hoist and any runback structure shall be inspected by a qualified third party upon completion of installation and every 6 months thereafter. 18.7 The contactor shall install and maintain any material hoist in accordance with the NYS P.E. design drawing, the manufacturer’s specifications, OSHA 1926 subpart N, the ANSI A10.5 standard, and all local requirements. The material hoist shall be electric powered. The hoist, rigging (e.g. wire rope, clamps, hooks with safety Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 24 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 latches, etc.) and safety devices, shall be inspected daily prior to use. The hoist is to be taken out of service if any rigging or safety devices are damaged or otherwise not functioning properly. The contractor is not to load the hoist in excess of the limit set forth by the manufacturer. A physical barrier controlled access zone shall be established on the ground and at each working level of the hoist way to protect workers and pedestrians. 18.8 The contractor shall not use cranes, hoists, suspended scaffolds or other lifting equipment when wind speeds exceed the limit set forth by the manufacturer or applicable code, whichever is less. 18.9 Contractor shall employ controlled access zones and an adequate number of flag persons to control pedestrians and vehicular traffic. 19.0 Powered Mobile Equipment and Industrial Trucks 19.1 Contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  149: Powered Industrial Truck Program 19.2 Contractor shall inspect, maintain and use all powered mobile equipment in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. 19.3 Contractor shall ensure that powered mobile equipment contains all manufacturer supplied guards and safety devices, which shall not be removed or over ridden during operation. Outriggers shall be deployed at all times. Equipment shall not be modified or loaded in excess of its rated capacity. 20.0 Confined Space Entry 20.1 The PM or manager, and contractor shall plan any work to be performed in a confined space at least one week in advance with EH&S. Such work shall be performed in accordance with OSHA 1926 Subpart AA and the following NYULH Safety Policy:  138: Confined Space Entry Program 21.0 Personal Protective Equipment 21.1 Contractor shall comply with OSHA 1926 subpart E: Personal Protective and Life Saving Equipment. The Manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  119: Personal Protective Equipment Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 25 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 21.2 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall wear, at a minimum, work boots, long pants and a short sleeve shirt. 21.3 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall wear the proper ANSI Z89 hard hat for the hazard that exists (e.g., impact, falling/flying object, or electrical hazard). 21.4 Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall ensure personnel have and use all necessary task specific personal protective equipment and clothing, including but not limited to:  Cut resistant and flame retardant gloves  Dust mask  Hearing protection  Safety glasses and face shields  Welding helmet and jacket 21.5 Contractor shall ensure personnel wear reflective vests when directing traffic and working in close proximity to trucks and powered mobile equipment. Such vests shall not be worn when performing hot work. 21.6 The manager or contractor shall implement engineering controls (e.g. ventilation or wet methods) to eliminate the need for respiratory protection where possible. 21.7 Manager or contractor shall complete a pre task assessment in coordination with EH&S prior to personnel undertaking any work which requires the use of a respirator.  Contractors whose personnel wear respirators shall provide their written respiratory protection plan to an ACSP for review.  Manager or contractor shall maintain and have available documentation of fit testing and training in the proper use and maintenance of respirators. Issue date 11/2020 Replaces 02/2017 Reviewed by S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety NYU Langone Health Construction Safety Committee NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 26 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 Summary of Revisions Revision Date Section Changes November 2020 Throughout Updates policy name to “Construction Safety Requirements”; Updates “Facilities mechanics” to “Facilities trade staff” 2.0 Adds “Competent Person”, “Construction”, “Controlling Contractor”, Facilities staff person”, and “Manager” definitions 3.0 Adds Responsibilities section 4.4 Adds requirement for contractor to maintain a daily contact log 6.1 Interim Life Safety permit changed to Construction Safety permit 8.7 Adds requirement to provide watchperson on certain NYC construction sites 10.18 Adds occupant/tenant protection plan requirement Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 27 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.3, 11.5, 11.7, 11.8, 11.12, 11.20, 11.21, 11.22, 11.23, 11.24, 11.25, 11.26, 11.27, 11.28, 11.29, 11:31, 11:32 • Adds requirement for AHJ to review proposed alternate egress for place of assembly occupancies; • Prohibits use of flame retardant plastic as a construction barrier except for short duration work in occupied areas; • Clarifies requirements for maintaining and modifying fire protection systems and compartmentation during construction; • Adds requirement for PM to include egress, fire protection and compartmentation changes in occupant protection plan; • Clarifies procedure for addressing existing smoke detectors in areas to undergo construction; • Adds section on protecting fire/smoke barriers; • Adds requirement for fire stopping to be installed by certified personnel and inspected by a qualified third party; • Adds section on fire extinguisher requirements; • Adds section prohibiting use of “hot” lighting; • Adds section relative to flammable liquid storage; • Adds NYC and NYS requirements to provide watchperson on certain sites; • Adds requirement to review proposed contractor indoor/outdoor material storage locations; • Adds requirement for contractor not to stockpile materials on site; • Adds requirement for temporary heat/portable heaters to be approved by EH&S; • Adds requirement for fire alarm devices and wiring to be protected; any damage caused to same reported; • Adds prohibition against hot roofing methods unless reviewed and approved; • Adds requirement for building to be enclosed and hot work on roof complete prior to placing combustible building materials on roof 12.10, 12.11 Adds requirement to protect live electric panels, requirement for temporary power and lighting system in construction areas Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 28 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 13.6, 13.7, 13.8, 13.15, 13.19, 13.20 • Adds requirements for work involving lead painted surfaces and lead shielding materials; • Adds requirement to comply with silica standards; • Adds requirement for PM to notify architect that chemical products must comply with NYULH design guidelines; • Adds terminal cleaning requirement prior to reoccupation; • Adds requirement for contractor to comply with NYULH and NYC/NYS Covid 19 requirements 15.3 Adds requirement for planning demolition of tanks and pressure vessels. August 2017 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 10.3 10.11 Adds fire safety requirements February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Review by Adds review by HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers EOC Committee November 2016 2.2, 2.4 Adds training requirements 7.1 Adds requirement to call 212 263 3911 8.2, 8.3, 8.7, 8.8, 8.11 Adds requirements for public protection and work in occupied areas 9.2 Adds requirement for fire resistance rated construction partitions 9.3, 9.5, 9.7 Adds requirements for construction partition doors, removal of combustible materials and restricted use of gasoline and propane 10.6, 10.7, 10.9 Adds requirements to use a scanner to detect in wall utilities, restricted use of building outlets and protection of electrical cables 11.9 11.13, 11.17 Adds requirements for infection/dust control 16 Adds requirements for exterior material handling, crane and rigging operations Appendix A Adds NYULMC Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel November 2015 11.2 Specifies use of Edge Guard or equivalent partition system Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 1 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 NYU Langone Health values safety and is committed to protecting its patients, staff, contractor personnel and the public from hazards associated with construction. As a worker on an NYU Langone Health construction site, you are responsible for: pursuing safety on a daily basis complying with the law, standards and procedures following NYU Langone Health’s Construction Safety Rules proactively helping to identify and address safety concerns intervening to correct unsafe conditions and behaviors stopping work if a hazard presents an imminent danger to yourself or others looking out for co workers and helping them correct any unsafe behaviors Failure to meet your responsibilities for safety will result in strict disciplinary action. You should report all concerns about safety to your foreman. You may also report them anonymously to NYU Langone Health’s division of Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) at 212 263 5159. The following basic rules apply at all NYU Langone facilities Category Construction Safety Rules Asbestos • Prior to performing work in an existing facility, confirm that an asbestos survey was done and any necessary abatement completed. • If you come into contact with suspect asbestos containing material, immediately stop work, secure the area, and notify your foreperson. Communication / Behavior • Do not speak to patients. • Communicate with medical center personnel only when necessary. • In patient care areas, communicate only with the Charge Nurse. • Ensure all communication is courteous and professional. NYU Langone Health has a zero tolerance policy for inappropriate communication and behavior (e.g. harassment, verbal/physical altercation, drug/alcohol use, or smoking). Such behavior will result in immediate and permanent removal from NYU Langone facilities. Doors • Keep construction site, stairwell, mechanical and electrical room and roof doors closed. Egress Prior to work that may obstruct or restrict egress: • Plan to minimize the impact to occupants. • Review the NYU Langone Interim Life Safety (ILS) and Evacuation Plan prior to starting the work. • Implement all precautions listed in the ILS and Evacuation Plan. Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 2 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 Electrical • Do not use building receptacles unless approved by Facilities or the building manager. • Use a GFCI device with power tools, extension cords and equipment. Fire Immediately report any smoke or fire incident, regardless of severity, as follows: On sites with an active fire alarm system:  Activate the nearest pull station  Call 212 263 3911 (NYU Langone Hospitals and locations with Cisco phone systems) or 911 (all other locations), and provide the address and exact location of the incident In locations which lack a fire alarm system, call 911, provide the address and exact location of the incident, and then contact your foreman. Hot Work E.g., all cutting, welding, burning, brazing, grinding or other operations that produce flame, sparks or slag. • Do not perform hot work unless you and others working on the task have the required training and valid certifications (e.g., certificates of fitness, license). • Obtain a new Hot Work Permit each day, e.g., from Facilities or the building manager. • Before starting work, remove flammables/combustibles within 35 feet of the hot work area. • Implement protective measures to contain sparks and slag. • Use a smoke eater at the point of welding and other smoke/odor producing hot work. • Remove oxygen and flammable gas cylinders from building when not in use and at the end of each work day. ID • Wear NYU Langone ID at all times. Infection Control • Review the Infection Control Risk Assessment (ICRA) permit during planning. • Implement all controls listed on the ICRA. • Do not work in an occupied patient room. • Do not work in an occupied area without a smoke tight construction barrier in place. • Prior to work, remove all clinical supplies, equipment and furniture from the area. If items cannot be removed, protect them from dust and physical damage. Injuries • Report all injuries requiring treatment beyond first aid immediately to your foreperson. Life Safety • Review the Construction Safety permit during planning. • Implement all controls listed in the Construction Safety Permit. Construction Safety Requirements Appendix A NYU Langone Health Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel Page 3 of 3 Revised: January 4, 2021 Isolation from occupied areas • Ensure that all work is properly isolated from occupied areas by utilizing a smoke tight partition or a clean work booth (e.g., a Kontrol Kube). • Seal all HVAC vents with sheet metal to prevent migration of construction dust to other occupied areas. • Use exhaust fans equipped with HEPA filters within work areas and work booths to capture construction dust. • Do not stage or store tools, materials, equipment, or debris in occupied areas. Penetrations • Obtain a Penetrations Permit from Facilities or the building manager prior to performing any work above the ceiling or penetrating a smoke or fire barrier. • Wear the blue penetrations vest (if applicable) and have the Penetrations Permit with you when working above the ceiling. • Use only Hilti fire stopping products. • Seal all penetrations in smoke/fire barriers with proper fire resistant materials (e.g., mineral wool, fire caulk, U.L. listed drywall assemblies or rated access panels) at the end of each work day. • Do not seal penetrations with plywood, plastic, corex, masonite, fiberglass or spray foam insulation. Planning • Plan all work and implement necessary protective measures (e.g., for windows, air intakes, and public walkways) prior to beginning work. Smoking • Do not smoke or use electronic cigarettes within medical center facilities, courtyards, roofs, or within 25 feet of entrances to them. • Only smoke in designated smoking locations. Utility Shutdowns and Energy Control • Do not perform work on live utilities unless planned and specifically approved by Facilities or the building manager, and EH&S. • Plan with Facilities or the building manager and confirm shutdown of: − fire alarm and fire suppression system components (e.g., sprinkler systems or smoke detectors) prior to any work that has potential to activate them (e.g., work involving dust, hot work, steam, heat or physical contact). − any necessary utilities (e.g., electric, medical gas, plumbing, steam, and HVAC) prior to undertaking any demolition, using the Pre Demolition Validation Permit. • Scan floor slabs with GPR and walls with a wall scanner prior to penetrating. Waste • Wipe down and seal with plastic all debris containers prior to traveling from a construction area to an occupied area.