NYU Langone Hospitals Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment and Implementation Plan/Community Service Plan 2022 2024 Adopted May 2022 NYU Langone Hospitals Board of Trustees Copies of this document can be downloaded from the NYU Langone Health website at: http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan The Executive Summary of our Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment and Community Service Plan shares our analysis and conclusions in a more accessible format for a broader constituency. This document, which is written at an 8th grade literacy level, has been translated into Arabic, Chinese, and Spanish. It is available at all of NYULH inpatient locations. We welcome your questions and comments. Please feel free to contact Sue A. Kaplan, JD, Research Professor, Department of Population Health, and Director of the Community Service Plan at: sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org; Kathleen Hopkins, Vice President for Community Programs, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone at: kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org; or Kymona Tracey, Director, Community Education, Outreach and Health Benefit Administration, NYU Langone Hospital Long Island at: kymona.tracey@nyulangone.org. ii Table of Contents Section Pages MISSION 1 OVERVIEW 2 5 I. COMMUNITY HEALTH NEEDS AND ASSETS ASSESSMENT 5 39 A. Definition and Brief Description of Communities Served 5 6 B. Public Participation 6 7 C. Community Profiles 8 22 1. Sunset Park Needs and Assets 8 10 2. Needs and Priorities of the Arab American Community in Southwest Brooklyn 10 12 3. Red Hook Needs and Assets 12 14 4. The Lower East Side and Chinatown Needs and Assets 14 16 5. Hempstead Needs and Assets 16 22 D. Assessment and Selection of Public Health Priorities 22 39 1. Impact of COVID 23 27 2. Needs and Assets: Addressing the Intersection of Health and Housing 27 31 3. Need and Assets: Healthy Eating and Food Security 31 34 4. Need and Assets: Tobacco Prevention and Cessation 34 35 5. Need and Assets: Reducing Disparities in Maternal and Child Health Outcomes and Supporting Children’s Social Emotional Development 35 37 6. Community Needs Not Addressed and Why 37 38 7. Information Gaps that Limit NYULH’s Ability to Assess Communities’ Health Needs 38 8. Existing Assets, Facilities, and Resources 38 39 iii Section Pages II. COMMUNITY SERVICE PLAN/IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY 39 109 A. New York State and New York City Public Health Priorities 39 B. Addressing Health Disparities 39 C. Programs, Progress and Plans: Preventing Chronic Diseases 39 82 1. Healthy Food Initiative 39 44 2. Greenlight 44 51 3. REACH FAR Brooklyn: Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn 51 57 4. Tobacco Free Community 57 63 5. Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program 63 65 6. Red Hook Community Health Network 65 68 7. Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center 69 72 8. Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium 72 77 9. Health by Housing Lab 77 81 10. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de Hábitos Saludables 81 82 D. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children 83 101 1. ParentChild+ 83 86 2. ParentCorps 86 92 3. Video Interaction Project 92 95 4. Project SAFE 95 100 5. Family Support Services 100 101 iv Section Pages E. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment 101 102 1. Falls Prevention Programs (Tai Chi for Arthritis and A Matter of Balance) 101 102 F. Brooklyn Data Station 103 105 G. Dissemination 105 H. Community Engagement and Health Equity 105 108 I. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures 108 109 Appendices A. Data sources and references consulted B. Input from persons who represent the broad interests of the community C. Guiding principles to increase authentic community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda D. Evidence base for programs E. Anticipated impact and performance measures Mission NYU Langone Health is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers. Composed of NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”), NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”), and NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“NYULISoM”), NYU Langone Health has a trifold mission: to serve, teach and discover. Located in the heart of Manhattan, with additional facilities throughout the New York City area, NYULH currently operates the following six inpatient facilities: § Tisch Hospital, an acute care hospital located in Manhattan § Kimmel Pavilion, a state of the art, digitally integrated healthcare facility in Manhattan § NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital (formerly known as Hospital for Joint Diseases), an orthopedic, neurologic and rheumatologic specialty hospital in Manhattan § Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, which provides pediatric inpatient care, outpatient care, procedural and surgical services, the KiDS Emergency Department and multiple ambulatory services § NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn (formerly known as NYU Lutheran Medical Center), a full service teaching hospital and Level I Trauma Center located in Sunset Park, Brooklyn § NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (formerly known as NYU Winthrop Hospital), which provides inpatient and outpatient medical care throughout Long Island NYU Langone Health also recently affiliated with Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Langone Health, a community hospital in Suffolk County, Long Island. Ambulatory facilities number over forty, and include the Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute designated cancer center; the NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Services; and NYU Langone Health Cobble Hill, a free standing Emergency Department in Cobble Hill. In addition, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, an affiliate of NYULH, is a Federally Qualified Health Center network, which includes eight primary care health centers in Brooklyn and over 40 school and shelter based extension clinics. NYULH is the principal teaching hospital for NYUSoM, which has trained thousands of physicians and scientists since its founding in 1841, and NYULISoM, which opened in 2019 and is dedicated to educating exemplary physicians and academic leaders in primary care; both NYUSoM and NYULISoM offer full tuition scholarships. In addition, NYUSoM, through its faculty group practice, delivers patient care at 320 practice sites and has affiliations with the Manhattan campus of Financial assistance Throughout NYU Langone Health, we provide financial assistance for patients with limited income, regardless of their insurance status. Our charity care policy reflects our strong commitment to providing comprehensive and high quality healthcare services to all of our patients. Financial counselors inform patients whether they qualify for free or low cost insurance, such as Medicaid, Child Health Plus, and Family Health Plus. If the finance counselor finds that the individual does not qualify for low cost insurance, they facilitate applications for a discount on copays, deductibles, and charges based on a sliding scale. Patients may apply regardless of immigration status. Financial assistance notices and applications are available at each inpatient location in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, English, Greek, Italian, Korean, Polish, Russian, and Spanish. Financial Counselors also assist uninsured individuals with enrollment into public benefits like Medicaid and Medicare. For information about the NYULH financial assistance program go to: https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance 2 the Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Health Care System and with NYC Health + Hospitals, which includes facilities at Bellevue and Gouverneur in Manhattan and Woodhull in Brooklyn. Overview Growing out of our Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA) and aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities, the NYU Langone Hospitals three year implementation plan (the Community Service Plan, “CSP”) focuses on Preventing Chronic Diseases by promoting healthy eating and food security, decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, addressing the intersection of health and housing, supporting disease self management, and connecting people to resources that address social and health risk factors. The Plan also Promotes Healthy Women, Infants and Children through parenting programs, by connecting families to needed resources, and through early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. We also have an emerging portfolio of projects that focus on Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment by reducing falls among vulnerable populations. Our Community Service Plan programs span multiple sectors: early childhood settings and schools, primary care, housing, and community settings, such as faith based organizations and social service providers. Drawing on its expertise in developing and implementing effective approaches to health promotion at the community level, the Department of Population Health (DPH) has served as the architect for the CHNAA and Plan since 2013. Since 2016, DPH and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have worked together to develop a CSP designed to create synergies across programs and to take advantage of the combined expertise of our larger institution, the strong foundation of work under both of our previous Plans, and the strengths of our community partnerships. Beginning in 2022, the CHNAA and CSP expanded to include NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (formerly Winthrop Hospital), focused initially on building community partnership and developing programs to meet the needs of the Hempstead community. (See Section I.C.5.) Department of Population Health approach to advancing population health and health equity 3 Through its Community Service Plan, NYULH brings to bear a wide range of expertise: in healthy eating and obesity prevention, health literacy, parenting, family and community engagement, smoking cessation, prevention science, and population health. The programs and priorities remain consistent with NYULH prior years’ Community Service Plans, but under the current CSP, existing programs have been extended and new initiatives added. The CSP’s geographic scope includes the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn; we recently also completed an initial needs and assets assessment in Hempstead in Nassau County and are beginning to implement CSP programs there as well. Priority Areas of Focus Preventing Chronic Diseases § The Healthy Food Initiative addresses food security and healthy food availability in Sunset Park, Brooklyn and surrounding communities through evidence informed interventions focused on emergency food access, screening and case management, community education, and a community wide coalition of food systems stakeholders. § Greenlight, an early childhood obesity prevention program to improve health literacy and foster healthful diet and activity related behavior, is being adapted and implemented in partnership with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center and the Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone in Sunset Park. In the next CSP cycle, it will be extended to the Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone, as well as the NYULH pediatric practice in Hempstead, Long Island. § Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans (REACH FAR), an evidence based program designed to prevent cardiovascular disease by increasing access to healthy foods and providing culturally tailored health coaching and messages, is being implemented in mosques on the Lower East Side, Manhattan and in Sunset Park and Kensington, Brooklyn. § Tobacco Free Community includes an array of programs to address high smoking rates among immigrant populations, particularly Asian American men: a community navigator program; a Citywide coalition that is addressing tobacco related policies, facilitating access to smoking cessation The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (FHC) is a federally qualified health center network with a longstanding history of serving underserved and immigrant communities of Brooklyn and throughout New York City. The FHC provides high quality primary and preventive outpatient care to adults and children regardless of their ability to pay or their immigration and health insurance status. With over 100,000 patients, the FHC network handles over 600,000 medical, dental, and behavioral health visits each year. The mission of the FHCs is to improve the overall health of the communities we serve by delivering high quality, culturally competent health and human services in community based settings. The FHCs are nationally recognized for innovative, affordable, high quality care and are one of the largest employers within the communities they serve. The FHCs established the nation’s largest dental residency program, the largest school health program in New York, a community medicine program serving more than 7,000 homeless New Yorkers, and one of the first health focused AmeriCorps programs. In fiscal year 2021 alone, the FHCs provided over 15,000 individuals with direct assistance to obtain public benefits, adult literacy classes, legal services, health referrals, and emergency food. 4 treatment and developing a repository of resources; and a program to educate youth about e cigarettes. These programs are being implemented in partnership with Asian Americans for Equality, the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center, the Chinese American Planning Council, the New York City Housing Authority, and the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Tobacco Policy and Program. § The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program, an evidence based educational program designed to build disease management skills and confidence, is being implemented in libraries and other community settings in Nassau County. § The Red Hook Community Health Network is a network of community based organizations and health partners working to improve the health of Red Hook residents by expanding access to health and social services, supporting a community health worker program, and organizing to address root causes of health disparities of the community. § The Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center (CHW RRC) expands access to training and up to date information on health topics and community resources for CHWs across NYC and nationally, providing social and professional development opportunities for CHWs within the NYULH system, and providing technical support, evaluation, and convening opportunities to support community based organizations, health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations to strengthen and better understand the role of CHWs in promoting the health of vulnerable communities. § The Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium is a collaborative network of health care, housing, homeless and social services organizations, and government partners with the shared goal of improving health equity and housing stability by fostering cross sector relationships, informing policy, and building capacity of frontline workers to support Brooklyn residents with unmet health and housing needs. § The Health by Housing (HxH) Lab conducts research to build the evidence base for initiatives, programs, and policies at the intersection of health and housing; informs policy and programs related to health and housing through evidence based advising and research dissemination; and provides education to expand the reach of practice relevant evidence on health and housing. Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children § ParentChild+ (PC+), a national, evidence based early literacy, parenting and school readiness program, serves low income immigrant families in Sunset Park. The program provides intensive home visiting to families with children between two and four years old who are challenged by poverty, low levels of education, language and literacy barriers and other obstacles. § ParentCorps, an evidence based family centered early childhood intervention to improve child health, behavior and learning, has been assessing needs and providing responsive support to the early childhood community in Sunset Park, including ParentCorps Professional Development and programming. The program will expand to reach 12 pre K programs and offer resources system wide. 5 § The Video Interaction Project (VIP), an evidence based parenting program that uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents strengthen early development and literacy in their children, will continue to serve Sunset Park and extend its reach to additional locations. § Project SAFE, a peer education program employing an evidence based youth development approach to prevent teen pregnancy and HIV/AIDS, will continue being implemented in Sunset Park and other Brooklyn communities. § Enhanced Family Support Services will be provided at the NYU Langone Long Island Pediatric Practice in Hempstead where a Family Support Counselor will screen patients for socials needs, connect them to a network of local services, and follow up to ensure that care is received. The Practice will also implement Reach Out and Read, an evidence based early literacy program. Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment § Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention and A Matter of Balance, two evidence based fall prevention programs, are being implemented at the Long Island Hospital Wellness Center, two libraries and other community settings. The CSP Brooklyn Data Station supports partnerships and fosters collaborations that aim to improve population health in Sunset Park, Red Hook and other parts of Brooklyn. The Data Station also supports the CHNAAs across all of the geographic areas that comprise our CSP, providing a range of data services, supporting a knowledge network and a forum to translate findings into action to improve health. Through the Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment and partnerships embedded in the Community Service Plan, we aim to create a platform for evidence based health promotion and disease prevention at the neighborhood level with a focus on issues of high priority to the public’s health. I. Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment A. Definition and Brief Description of Communities Served As a major academic medical center, NYU Langone Health serves a broad community of diverse populations with a wide range of healthcare needs. Its primary service area includes Manhattan, Brooklyn, Long Island and Queens, and the secondary service area extends into Staten Island, Westchester, and New Jersey. To begin to understand the needs of our primary service areas, we reviewed publicly available data reports and summaries, such as the Community Health Profiles from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Prevention Agenda Dashboard from the New York State Department of Health. Additional secondary data sources were reviewed and analyzed, as detailed in Appendix A. Based on that review (described for each community below) and in light of our commitment to continuing our CSP partnerships and work, the 2022 2024 Community Service Plan continues to focus on the communities served through the previous Plans: the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn. In addition, over the course of the past year, following the 6 merger with Winthrop Hospital (now NYU Langone Hospital Long Island), we have undertaken a CHNAA focused on the Village of Hempstead in Nassau County and have begun to develop programs to meet the need and priorities of this vibrant but under resourced community. Our 2022 2024 Plan extends to that community as well. These communities the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn, and Hempstead in Nassau County were selected based on the need for services as evidenced by social determinants of health, health disparities, risk factors, and utilization data. Although these communities are not geographically contiguous, they share important similarities, including the diversity of their populations and an infrastructure of strong community based organizations. B. Public Participation Public participation in assessing community needs and assets and setting priorities has been a continuous process over the past three years. We have engaged a range of stakeholders with a particular focus on medically underserved residents to assess community needs; set priorities; develop, design, and implement programs; and share and celebrate progress and results. We employ diverse, often multi pronged strategies and rely on our extensive network of community partners and advisory boards and committees to provide ongoing outreach and program development. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone advisory structure includes the Sunset Park Health Council as the community governing board; culturally specific advisory groups; and program specific councils, including the Teen Health Council. The NYULH Community Service Plan Coordinating Council, which brings together NYU Langone faculty and staff, community partners, and policymakers, meets quarterly to oversee program implementation, share findings, provide insight into community need, and identify priorities. In addition, each CSP project has developed deeper community relations over the past three Collection, analysis, presentation and discussion of data ® To support our CHNAA, we bring the analytic capacity of the Department of Population Health (through our Data Station described below) and the significant analytic expertise of the FHCs, to obtain and analyze existing databases, as well as any data that have been collected by community partners (see Appendix A). ® Thoughtful and accessible presentation of these findings often serves as a catalyst for discussion with community members and partners about needs and priorities. ® We use and strengthen our existing relationships with partners to engage in a review of data, to identify unanswered questions, and to obtain input through a variety of methods, including surveys, group discussions, and focus groups. Data are always made available to community partners for their own use. ® We continually use data that are collected through existing projects, and the experience of our partners in providing services, to shed light on unmet need, to strengthen programs, and organically to develop new priorities and initiatives. ® As issues arise, we work with our partners to collect additional data on needs and assets. For example, over the past few years, we have worked with the NYULH Brooklyn Arab Community Advisory Council (19 community based organizations) to learn more about the health needs and priorities of that community. Those findings are presented in Section III.B. 7 years and these have provided an important way for us to understand and shape our CHNAA and guide our program implementation and assessment. As part of our CHNAA and program implementation, we regularly consult with public health and policy experts in the City and State Health Departments, the State Office of Mental Health, the City Department of Education, the New York City Housing Authority, the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development, and other agencies and organizations with expertise on the needs of low income populations, including community leaders, resident associations, faith and community based organizations, advocacy groups, and members of Community Boards. A list of organizations and individuals consulted is attached as Appendix B. To understand more about community need and to support policymakers, providers and community groups in understanding community demographics, and community assets and needs including housing and health outcomes (a high community priority), we undertook an analysis of existing sources of data. (See Appendix A for a list of data sources.) Summaries and updates of the CHNAA and CSP are shared with community partners and coalitions, as well as with Community Boards. These meetings include residents, as well as representatives from businesses, and government and community based organizations. These summaries are also used to inform and solicit input from NYULH Brooklyn and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone advisory groups and frontline staff and from community partners, including members of the CSP Coordinating Council. We have solicited written comments from the public on our previous CHNAA and implementation plan both through our website and at public meetings. Although no written comments were received, comments and discussion followed public presentations at community meetings. Through this in depth and community engaged process, we have compiled and updated our profile of the health needs and strengths of the Lower East Side and Chinatown, Sunset Park and Red Hook, and Hempstead. This analysis has, in turn, informed the priorities and partnerships that comprise our Community Service Plan. Below, we describe CHNAAs for each community. We begin with a profile of each of these communities. This is followed by an in depth assessment of specific needs related to the impact of COVID, and priorities for preventing chronic diseases, including the connection between health and housing, healthy eating and food security, and tobacco prevention and cessation. We also assess the needs and assets related to promoting healthy women, infants and children, including maternal/child exposure to adversity and teen pregnancy. The City Health Dashboard: a CHNA Resource The City Health Dashboard (cityhealthdashboard.com), a collaboration among the Department of Population Health at the NYU School of Medicine, the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, the National League of Cities, the National Resource Network, and the International City/County Management Association, is an interactive website to track health and health related metrics at the city level. The goal of this major initiative, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, is to equip cities with a one stop resource allowing users to view and compare data from multiple sources on health and the factors that shape health to guide local solutions that create healthier and more equitable communities. 8 C. Community Profiles 1. Sunset Park Needs and Assets Sunset Park residents make up the highest percentage of individuals who use NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. The neighborhood is a mixed residential, industrial, and commercial community in Southwest Brooklyn, adjoining the waterfront. Sunset Park can be described as encompassing three geographic areas: Sunset Park West, Sunset Park Central, and Sunset Park East/ Borough Park West. The population in each of these areas has grown between 2010 2020 and today is home to about 146,000 residents in aggregate. This growth has been driven by an increase in the number of Asian residents, which has offset a decline in the number of Latinx* residents. Overall, of the residents are Asian, are Latinx, and are White. In Sunset Park West, most residents are Latinx () while in Sunset Park Central and Sunset Park East/Borough Park West, most residents are Asian ( and respectively). About of the Latinx residents are of Mexican origin, and about of the Asian residents are of Chinese origin. For nearly 200 years, Sunset Park has served as a first destination for immigrants today, of residents are born outside the United States. Although, as described in Section I.D.1. local businesses have been hit hard by the pandemic, two vibrant commercial corridors of shops, restaurants, and small businesses continue to serve this multi cultural community. With a network of community and faith based organizations and local industries that provide entry level service and factory jobs, the neighborhood has supported and provided a strong foothold for many new immigrants. Access to and awareness of culturally appropriate and linguistically accessible health and social services in the community are consistently identified as top needs and priorities by community members and partners. Many Sunset Park residents are * We use the gender neutral term “Latinx” after consultation with several community partners, but recognize that the terminology is in flux and not universally used or accepted. Asian48,22058,063Latinx 60,94656,397White 22,73823,541Black 3,2603,9912010 (137,392)2020 (145,711)Population Change in Sunset Park: 2010 2020 9 best served in a language other than English; of residents ages 5 years and older speak a primary language other than English at home, with Spanish () and Mandarin, Cantonese or other Chinese dialect () being most common. Fifty four percent of residents ages 5 years and older have limited English proficiency. Social, economic, and environmental issues continue to be top priorities identified by community members. Sunset Park is a community that grapples with high levels of poverty, low educational attainment, and health disparities. Twenty six percent of residents live below the Federal Poverty Level compared to of residents in New York City. From 2010 to 2019, the percentage of wealthiest residents (making five times or more of the poverty level) increased from to while the percentage of residents who experienced poverty remained roughly the same (from to ). With median earnings for Sunset Park workers at just over $26,000, compared with nearly $41,000 for workers citywide, many of those who work still experience poverty. Poverty is particularly acute among children of children under 18 live below the poverty level. About of adults ages 25 years or older have less than a high school diploma, including who have less than a 9th grade education. The lower level of educational attainment is in part a reflection of limited educational opportunities outside the United States. Education is highly valued by families in the community and graduation rates of students who attended public high schools in Sunset Park are consistently at or above the citywide rate. Prior to the COVID pandemic, unemployment was in Sunset Park, similar to NYC (); however nearly one quarter of employed Sunset Park residents worked in the arts, entertainment, recreation, accommodation and food services industry and many employed in these sectors lost jobs during the pandemic. In recent conversations with community partners, all have stressed the need for workforce development for documented and undocumented immigrants across a realistic range of job types, noting that addressing adult literacy is a prerequisite to successful training and employment. Sunset Park residents are nearly twice as likely to lack health insurance than residents citywide ( vs. ), with rates varying by age. While nearly all children in Sunset Park and citywide have some health insurance, about of adults ages 18 64 years are uninsured. Overall, fifty seven percent of Sunset Park residents have health insurance through public coverage (e.g., Medicaid or Medicare). Sunset Park has a strong network of trusted community based organizations many of which have served the community for several generations. In conversations with One of the valuable assets of Sunset Park is its network of culturally specific community based organizations that serve immigrant residents. Mixteca was established in 2000 by a group of concerned community members to address critical needs in health, education, social and legal issues facing the burgeoning Mexican and Latin American immigrant community in Brooklyn. Housing in Sunset Park § Nearly half of all Sunset Park renters experience rent burden (> of income on rent), with 1 in 3 renter households experiencing severe rent burden (> of income on rent). § Without any NYCHA public housing options and a limited supply of subsidized housing ( of all units compared with citywide), Sunset Park has little protection against rising housing costs. The neighborhood has a higher gross median rent ($1,458) than NYC as a whole ($1,443). § Sunset Park ranks among the highest in severely crowded households among NYC neighborhoods, with nearly of renters having more than 1.5 people per room compared with citywide. 10 these longstanding partners, the need to address these social determinants of health through culturally appropriate outreach and engagement was repeatedly identified as a key priority. Economic pressures, fear in the face of anti immigrant sentiment, language barriers and competing priorities were all identified as barriers to well being, health and health care access. Working with and relying on these trusted partners is a central to all of our work in the community. 2. Needs and Priorities of the Arab American Community in Southwest Brooklyn Background and Methods: Data specific to the Arab American community are difficult to find as detailed ethnic and cultural heritage are not often collected on population based surveys or administrative records. A health needs assessment for the Brooklyn Arab American community was last conducted in 2008. In September 2018 at the Arab American Community Advisory Group Quarterly Meeting at NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, Arab American community partners advocated for an up to date assessment of health needs and priorities to better inform NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn strategies for engaging the Arab community. (See Appendix B for a full list of the participating partners.) The purpose of this assessment was to describe the health needs, priorities, and barriers to health care specific to the Arab American community in Brooklyn. Members from community based organizations and health organizations formed a working group to develop the survey. A convenience sample approach was used to recruit participants. Partner organizations invited their program participants to answer the survey and also worked with mosques, churches, and other programs serving the Brooklyn Arab American community to invite community members to participate. Participants were eligible if they were at least 18 years old, self identified as Arab American, and lived in Brooklyn. The anonymous survey was administered by interviewers who were trained community members from community organizations in the participants’ preferred language (Arabic or English). Responses were collected on paper and entered into an electronic database by trained community organization and health organization staff fluent in both Arabic and English. Data collection took place between September 2019 and December 2019. Key Findings: A total of 511 Arab American adults living in Brooklyn responded to the survey. Most participants were between the ages of 25 64 years (), female (), and responded to the survey in Arabic (). Respondents were born in a variety of countries, including Yemen (), Morocco (), Egypt (), United States (), Palestine () and Syria (). Annual household income was less than $25,000 for of participants. Survey Working Group Members: § Arab American Association of New York § Arab American Family Support Center § Moroccan American House Association § Arab Health Initiative of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center § Family Health Centers at NYU Langone § NYULH Center for the Study of Asian American Health § NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn § NYULH Brooklyn Data Station 11 Diabetes, cancer, heart disease, obesity and mental health were selected by participants as the most common health issues facing the Brooklyn Arab American community. These issues align with prevalent health conditions identified in this survey. For example, diabetes was more common among Arab American adults in this survey () than among adults in New York City (); a pattern similar to a study conducted in Michigan. Risk factors for heart disease, like high blood pressure and high cholesterol were also common among survey participants ( and , respectively). Among participants who reported a height and weight, about were obese. About of adults in the survey were at risk for current depression. Top Health Issues and Needed Resources for the Brooklyn Arab American Community Affordable housing and access to quality medical care were selected by participants as the most common resources needed to support the health of the Brooklyn Arab American community. These resource needs also align with conditions identified in the survey. For example, about of participants reported not having enough money to pay their rent/mortgage. This percentage is likely even higher now, as the impacts of unemployment and higher cost of living due to the COVID pandemic continue to be felt. While of participants reported having health insurance, about of participants reported not being able to get needed medical care in the past year—more than twice the percent of adults in New York City overall. Among those who could not get needed care, transportation problems and cost were the most common barriers noted. Cancer was a main health concern noted, and timely cancer screening was found to be lower among Brooklyn Arab American participants than New York City adults overall. About of participants aged 45 years or older had a timely colon cancer screening test, compared to about of adults age 50 years or older citywide. About of female participants ages 45 years or older had a timely breast cancer screening (mammogram), compared to about of women ages 40 years or older citywide. About of female participants had a timely cervical cancer screening test, compared to about of women citywide. 12 Results from this survey were presented by a workgroup member from a community based partner organization at a virtual meeting of the Arab American Community Advisory Group in February 2021. These results were also presented to executive leadership of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. See II.C.3., below, for a description of how these needs are being addressed. 3. Red Hook Needs and Assets Red Hook is a resilient, diverse and lively waterfront community in Brooklyn. The neighborhood is home to New York’s second largest public housing complex, the Red Hook Houses. More than half of Red Hook residents live in public housing. The majority of Red Hook residents are racial and ethnic minorities. Thirty nine percent identify as Latinx, Black, White, and Asian. Although the overall population of Red Hook has remained relatively steady between 2010 2020, there has been an increase in the White and Asian population and a decrease in Latinx and Black population. About one third of Red Hook residents ages five years and older speak a language other than English at home, with Spanish being most common (). Twenty three percent of Red Hook’s approximately 11,000 residents are under the age of 18. Image source: Red Hook, Brooklyn by Todd Crusham is licensed under CC BY 2.0 13 Like many NYC neighborhoods, Red Hook is experiencing gentrification. In the areas surrounding the Red Hook Houses, the percentage of the wealthiest residents (incomes at least five times higher than poverty level) doubled, from in 2006 2010 to in 2015 2019. While the poverty rate for Red Hook overall is , the rate is three times higher in the census tract containing Red Hook Houses compared with the surrounding census tracts ( vs ). Poverty, high unemployment, and low educational attainment are challenges in the community. Forty three percent of children under the age of 18 Red Hook live in poverty. Prior to the Covid 19 pandemic, of residents 16 and older were unemployed, compared with of residents citywide. About of workers were employed in educational, health care or social assistance