part of , help prepare children for school and support parents and caregivers in building stable and caring relationships with their children. Our services include the following programs: Early Childhood Centers We operate four full-day, year-round early childhood centers for children. Our teachers and caregivers create supportive, stimulating, and enriching environments. Locations include: Magical Years Early Childhood Center: 220 60th Street, Brooklyn NY, 11220; 718-439-0450 Seventh Avenue Preschool: 4419 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11220; 347-377-5160 Warren Street Center for Children and Families: 343 Warren Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11201; 718-237-9578 14th Street Preschool: 199 14th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11215; 347-377-5026 We also spearhead the Sunset Park Early Learning Network, which aims to expand the capacity of early childhood services in the community and improve the quality of services to ensure that all children enter kindergarten ready to learn. The ELN offers group professional development, on-site coaching and child development associate credentialing for day care centers, family childcare providers, and home visitors as well as family, friend, and neighbor caregivers. For more information, please call 917-921-9622 We also operate the Family Child Care Network (FCCN), providing subsidized childcare slots as well as additional resources to enhance the learning environment of family child care from birth until age 3. The FCCN works together with providers and families to provide the highest quality care for our communities’ children. For more information, please call Family Literacy Our family literacy programs support parents in their role as their child’s first teacher. The Reach Out and Read early literacy program encourages parents to read aloud to their children. These language-rich interactions help stimulate brain development in young children. Sunset Park ParentChild+ is an early literacy, school readiness, and parenting program that encourages parents to talk, read, and play with their young children to support school readiness. A companion program, ParentChild+ Family Child Care, supports home-based childcare providers in their role of helping young children prepare for school. VROOM provides tips for caregivers of young children on everyday activities that support child development. Caregivers can receive VROOM tips via direct texts and the free VROOM app. For more information on Family Literacy programs, please call 347-377-4185 Parenting Supports The Healthy Families Program is a home visiting program for pregnant women and new parents that supports positive parent–child bonding and relationships. Programming promotes child and family health, development, and safety. It also helps build early literacy and school readiness skills for children. For more information, please call 347-377-5093 347-573-1574 HealthySteps is a pediatric primary care program that promotes the health, wellbeing, and school readiness of babies and toddlers. The HealthySteps Specialist, a child development expert, addresses common and complex concerns, such as feeding, behavior, sleep, attachment, maternal depression, access to social supports beyond healthcare, and adapting to life with a baby or young child. For more information, please call 646-735-1213 The Video Interaction Project (VIP) provides parenting support sessions that occur during pediatric well-child visits for babies 0-3 years. VIP offers books, toys, video-recordings, and expert advice to help children learn and grow. For more information, please call 718-630-7171 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Community-Based Programs provide social, educational, and emotional support for families, children, and older adults. From nutrition programs for women who are to adult day care programs for older adults, our Community-Based Programs aim to meet the needs of the entire family.  Services are available in multiple languages. Our main location is the Family Support Center at 6025 Sixth Avenue in Brooklyn. Services and programs are also available at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations and other sites throughout Brooklyn. We focus on five areas of service: youth and adolescent services community development For more information on any services provided through our Community-Based Programs, please call NYU Langone Financial Reports NYU Langone releases quarterly financial reports. Our latest disclosure, available below, covers the 12 months that ended August 31, 2024, and encompasses the full scope of the enterprise, including our two medical schools, more than 300 outpatient locations, NYU Langone Hospitals, and Long Island Community Hospital, which remains a separate corporation until its anticipated merger in the spring of 2025. This updated report also accounts for our dedication to biomedical research and the expansion of life sciences in New York. NYU Langone’s culture of exceptionalism—which translates to safe and quality care for patients in their local communities—continues to drive volume, leading to a consistent sustainable growth rate and operational success. In the 12 months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone recorded an operating margin of 3.0 percent as operating revenues grew to $14.2 billion, marking a significant 14.2 percent increase from the prior year. 2024 Fiscal Year Annual Report Dates: August 31, 2023, to August 31, 2024 Released: November 18, 2024 Government & Community Affairs at NYU Langone Health At NYU Langone Health, we are on the front lines in creating a healthier New York. Our physicians, researchers, and staff are committed to bringing the highest-quality healthcare and services to communities across the New York metropolitan area. We engage with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities our patients reside in. We collaborate with local organizations through partnerships to provide services, programs, and events to the community at large. Government Affairs NYU Langone’s Office of Government and Community Affairs serves as a primary liaison between government and elected officials at the city, state, and federal level. The office closely monitors and analyzes important legislation, regulations, and budget proposals and advocates on issues as they affect NYU Langone. We manage relationships with government officials in New York City; Albany, NY; and Washington, DC, and also secure available government funds for various programs and projects. We coordinate visits to NYU Langone facilities for government officials to meet with our leadership and tour areas of interest, and ensure compliance with lobbying laws at the city, state, and federal level. We also work with local elected officials and community leaders to address health issues of concern to the community, and maintain working relationships with local community boards. We focus on community outreach to share information and resources and to increase awareness of NYU Langone in neighborhoods throughout New York City. NYU Langone sponsors numerous events supporting local nonprofits, community-based organizations, neighborhood associations, and local community groups. Events range from sponsorship and coordination of health fairs to support for annual events and participation in cultural and ethnic celebrations. We are proud to support and partner with these organizations, which are the bedrock of the communities we serve. Other efforts in the community include coordinating and collaborating with internal departments to participate in community events such as health fairs, seminars and informational workshops lead by health experts, community family days, and more. Through the we partner with community-based organizations to provide a range of services to children and families in need. Our office also works with NYU Langone’s on community outreach efforts to increase awareness about the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. NYU Langone Health in the Community Report Our NYU Langone Health in the Community report highlights our activities and contributions to benefit the communities we serve and showcases how we deliver care and community programs to support health across the New York metropolitan area and beyond. Departments throughout NYU Langone work to improve all aspects of community health, from annual screenings, chronic disease management, mental and behavioral healthcare, and vaccination, to social determinants of health, such as housing and food security. We’re proud to share stories of community programs offered for people of all ages, from early childhood to seniors. Read our Members of the Office of Government and Community Affairs team include the following: Joseph Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Staff 212-263-3474 Gilda Ventresca-Ecroyd Vice President, Government and Community Affairs 212-404-4077 Ashley Morrissey Senior Director, State Affairs 212-404-4086 Sara Ostolaza Manager, Community and City Affairs 347-453-9780 Patricia Barraga Senior Government Affairs Analyst 347-213-1182 Rebecca Berger 212-404-4082 James Toussaint Policy Analyst 212-404-4088 Jonathan Martinez Community Affairs Coordinator 929-453-0660 Elizabeth Roman Executive Assistant 212-404-4081 Myles Davis Advisor 917-881-5963 Chief Executive Officer and Dean Robert I. Grossman, MD, is chief executive officer of and dean of . Nationally recognized as a top healthcare executive, he leads one of the largest health systems in the Northeast—employing more than 52,000 people, including over 12,000 clinicians, stretching across 6 inpatient facilities and over 300 locations throughout the New York City region and in Florida. His visionary leadership has transformed NYU Langone into one of the best academic medical centers in the United States, as evaluated annually by independent organizations such as Vizient, Inc. the Leapfrog Group ( Best Hospitals Best Medical Schools ), and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Vizient recognized NYU Langone Health as No. 1 in the nation for quality and patient safety three years in a row. Innovation has been a hallmark of Dr. Grossman’s leadership of NYU Langone and NYU Grossman School of Medicine since his tenure began in 2007. This includes establishing an accelerated three-year MD pathway for select medical students—making NYU Grossman School of Medicine the first nationally ranked medical school to enable medical students to graduate in three years—and implementing full-tuition scholarships for medical students. For his achievements as dean, the school was named after him in 2019. Most recently, Dr. Grossman was the driving force behind the creation of NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine—a partnership between NYU and NYU Langone—the only medical school in the U.S. that offers a three-year MD degree focused on primary care and full-tuition scholarships. In July 2023, the school was renamed in honor of Dr. Grossman’s leadership. Each of these groundbreaking initiatives was fueled by Dr. Grossman’s collaborations with the Board of Trustees and institutional leadership to increase NYU Langone’s revenue from $2 billion in 2007 to more than $14.2 billion in 2024, including more than $5 billion in philanthropy since 2007. NYU Langone’s research awards from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have grown from $129 million to $820 million over the past 14 years. Dr. Grossman has been at the forefront of applying a data-driven approach to healthcare, with the aim of improving patient outcomes, streamlining clinical workflows, and enhancing medical decision-making. The institution uses a signature dashboard that tracks over 800 metrics, bringing transparency and accountability to everyone, so that providers can achieve better outcomes for patients and for the health system overall. NYU Langone operates with one playbook and one standard of care at every location. Early in his tenure, Dr. Grossman launched a decade-long Campus Transformation Plan, an infrastructure modernization program that has expanded NYU Langone’s footprint to more than 14 million square feet of clinical, educational, and research space across its campuses throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Among its capstone projects were the Science Building , NYU Langone’s largest research facility; , the only inpatient facility in New York City with exclusively private rooms; , the city’s first new children’s hospital in many years; and an Energy Building that meets 70 percent of the power needs of NYU Langone’s midtown campus. Under Dr. Grossman’s leadership, achieved the status of a Comprehensive Cancer Center from the National Cancer Institute, part of the NIH. He also propelled NYU Langone’s unprecedented growth into Brooklyn and Long Island, forging hospital affiliations that created , now two of the highest rated hospitals for quality and safety in the nation. Most recently, NYU Langone affiliated with Long Island Community Hospital, creating a clinically integrated healthcare network between the two organizations. In 2018, Dr. Grossman—together with Kenneth G. Langone, chairman of NYU Langone’s Board of Trustees—was named to Time magazine’s inaugural Health Care 50 list of the 50 most influential healthcare leaders who changed the state of healthcare in America. Dr. Grossman’s transformative leadership, including his steely piloting of the institution as it recovered from the devastation of Superstorm Sandy, was chronicled in William A. Haseltine’s book World Class: A Story of Adversity, Transformation, and Success at NYU Langone Health A prolific and highly respected scientist, Dean Grossman was awarded the Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award by the NIH in 1999 for his work on multiple sclerosis. He was a member (1995–2000) and chairman (1997–2000) of the Diagnostic Radiology Study Section at the NIH, was appointed to the NIH’s National Advisory Council for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (2003–2007), and, in 2004, became the first recipient of the Outstanding Contributions in Research Award, given annually by the Foundation of the American Society of Neuroradiology in recognition of lifelong accomplishment and consistent excellence in clinical neuroscience. In 2010, Dean Grossman received the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine’s Gold Medal for his pioneering research in magnetic resonance in medicine and biology. In addition, he received the Lifetime Achievement of the Emeritus Class from Tulane University (2019), was named a Distinguished Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (2010), and was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Bordeaux, France (2010). Most recently, Dean Grossman received the American Society of Neuroradiology Gold Medal for his contributions to the field of neuroradiology (2021), was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for excellence and leadership (2022), and received the Distinguished Alumni Award from Tulane University (2024). Dean Grossman is a passionate educator and widely published scholar. He has trained more than 100 fellows, many of whom occupy prominent positions worldwide, and has authored 340 publications and 5 books, including Neuroradiology: The Requisites Dean Grossman received his bachelor’s degree in biology from Tulane University and his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was elected to Alpha Omega Alpha. He completed his internship at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, two years of a neurosurgery residency at the University of Pennsylvania, a radiology residency at the University of Pennsylvania, and a two-year fellowship in neuroradiology at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Grossman is board-certified in radiology and neuroradiology. Dean Grossman joined NYU Langone in 2001 as the Louis Marx Professor of Radiology; chair of the Department of Radiology ; and professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and physiology and neuroscience. In his previous position at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, he was a professor of radiology, neurosurgery, and neurology; chief of neuroradiology; and associate chairman of radiology. Sitemap gayathri 2024-11-19T17:45:34+00:00 Faculty NYU Langone Health strives to provide increasingly high-quality care to the communities it serves. Undertaking projects to enhance its physical spaces and expand service offerings demonstrates NYU Langone’s commitment to ensure New Yorkers can get world-class healthcare close to home. In New York State, hospitals must submit Certificate of Need (CON) applications, and in certain instances a Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA), to gain approval for such projects. According to the New York State Department of Health , an HEIA aims to determine how a facility’s proposed project affects the accessibility and delivery of healthcare services. In addition, it seeks to demonstrate whether it will enhance health equity and contribute to mitigating health disparities in the project's service area for medically underserved groups. An independent entity conducts the HEIAs for NYU Langone’s proposed projects, which ensures objective assessments of the potential impacts. The HEIAs also incorporate input from patients and community-based organizations. Below are links to the HEIA documents and CONs filed with the New York State Department of Health. Consolidating Transplant Services at NYU Langone’s Manhattan Campus Transplant Consolidation HEIA Transplant Consolidation HEIA Data Tables Transplant Consolidation CON Relocating the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Congenital Heart Center CON Expanding the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Intensive Care Unit CON Relocating the Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Data Tables Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center CON Creating an Ambulatory Surgery Center for Orthopedic Services in Westchester County Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Data Tables Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center CON Relocating the Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Data Tables Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic CON Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan In addition to providing the highest quality care for patients at our primary locations, we at NYU Langone Health aim to apply our scientific and clinical strengths to support the health needs of the broader community. Growing out of our Community Health Needs Assessment and aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities, our three-year implementation plan, also known as our Community Service Plan, focuses on preventing chronic conditions by promoting healthy eating and food security, decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, addressing the intersection of health and housing, supporting the self-management of chronic conditions, and connecting people to resources that address social and health risk factors. The Community Service Plan also promotes healthy women, infants, and children through parenting programs that connect families to needed resources, and through early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. We also have an emerging portfolio of projects that focus on promoting a healthy and safe environment by reducing falls among vulnerable populations. Through the partnerships outlined in our Community Service Plan, we seek to create a platform for evidence-based health promotion and disease prevention at the neighborhood level, including the Lower East Side and Chinatown, in Manhattan; Sunset Park and Red Hook, in Brooklyn; and in Hempstead, Long Island. Our community-based and government partners span early childhood education settings and schools, as well as primary care, housing, and community settings, such as faith-based organizations, and local businesses. Read our complete Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment/Community Service Plan Read the previous Community Health Needs Assessment Read the Executive Summary in Simplified Chinese Traditional Chinese Read NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s previous Implementation Plan Read the supplemental report on the Community Health Needs and Assets in the Village of Hempstead Find quick reference data summaries for Hempstead Lower East Side and Chinatown Red Hook Sunset Park Read a summary of the Assessment of Needs and Priorities of the Brooklyn Arab American Community in At NYU Langone Health, ensuring a healthy environment is central to delivering on all three of our mission-critical areas: to serve, teach, and discover. Climate change is a global health issue, and our sustainability program was created to reduce our environmental impacts, promote health and resiliency through building design and better procurement, and advocate for climate leadership in healthcare. These four pillars are underscored by an effort to build a culture of sustainability within our organization, and to embed these priorities as a part of everyday operations and decision making. Our program includes dozens of initiatives across the NYU Langone Health led by our Real Estate Development and Facilities department, and is part of a collaborative effort among individuals and teams who are implementing best practices and working towards greener operations across the health system. From Building and Environmental Services staff to faculty, clinicians, and students, and from hospital operations to supply chain, finance, and construction—every NYU Langone Health member has a role to play in achieving our goals. Our Sustainability Commitments Climate change solutions must be rooted within our businesses and the communities we serve. It is crucial for us to work alongside industry and governmental agencies to accelerate climate progress and promote health equity. NYU Langone is committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050, with an interim goal of 50 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2030. Reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions offers benefits such as improving the quality of air in the communities we serve, increasing our resiliency, and making our buildings healthier and more comfortable for our patients and staff. This goal is part of our commitment with the U.S. Department of Human and Health Services’ Health Sector Pledge, where we’ve joined other leading health systems to strengthen national healthcare resilience to climate change. We are also a proud and longstanding participant in the New York City Carbon Challenge. Since 2005, we have achieved a 39 percent reduction in carbon emissions for our fully owned portfolio and major sites under the New York City Carbon Challenge framework. In 2019, we became the first and only New York City–based member of the Health Care Climate Council , a national leadership body of health systems committed to protect their patients and employees from the health impacts of climate change. This platform allows us to leverage our voice, alongside the other 21 health system participants, to drive innovative climate solutions as well as policy and market transformation. As part of the council, we also participate in the Health Care Climate Challenge We participate in Practice Greenhealth’s Healthier Hospitals: Safer Chemicals Challenge to reduce the use of chemicals in our furniture and cleaning product and to eliminate the use of mercury. Sustainability Awards and Recognition After Superstorm Sandy in 2012, NYU Langone began overhauling its infrastructure with an emphasis on resilience, energy efficiency, and green building design. Our hospital locations on the east side of Manhattan and their surrounding buildings are now the first in the world to receive the highest-level Platinum certification under both Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) under the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). In 2018, our east side Manhattan hospitals achieved PEER Platinum certification recognizing its power system efficiency and energy reliability. The following year, the both earned the highest Platinum level of USGBC’s LEED certification, an internationally recognized standard for innovative sustainable building design, construction, operations, and maintenance. We have earned more than 65 energy and environmental excellence awards for our sustainability achievements. In 2022, we received 11 environmental excellence awards from Practice Greenhealth and Healthcare without Harm, including the Top 25, Climate Resilience and Leadership, and Greening the OR Circle of Excellence awards. Annual Environmental Sustainability Report To help ensure transparency as we work towards these ambitious goals, we are pleased to share our annual environmental sustainability report. This report communicates more about our commitments, programs, and accomplishments to date and future plans across the four pillars of our sustainability program: reducing our impact, increasing resiliency, creating healthy environments, and advocating for a sustainable healthcare future. Read our 2024 Annual Sustainability Report Sustainability and Healthcare Database Health and environmental sustainability are fundamentally connected and are essential for the livelihood of our communities. NYU Langone and NYU researchers have recognized this connection and have led by example through academic studies on this topic. Our publicly available compiles publications on the intersection of public health, sustainability, pollution, and climate change. If you have questions or want to learn more about NYU Langone’s commitment to sustainability, please email us at sustainability@nyulangone.org The campus transformation project is dramatically reshaping NYU Langone Health through a combination of major new construction, renovation, and expansion. Under the leadership of our dean and CEO Dr. Robert I. Grossman Vicki Match Suna , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, this is the most sweeping revitalization in NYU Langone’s history. Our strategy is to reorganize and optimize NYU Langone’s physical resources and accommodate future growth on the main campus (the area bounded by 34th Street to the north, 30th Street to the south, the FDR Drive to the east, and First Avenue to the west) and beyond. Our vision is to expand NYU Langone south along First Avenue and to nearby city streets, and further still into other boroughs of New York City and the greater New York metropolitan area. NYU Langone Health’s First Avenue location. The vision behind our campus transformation calls for: upgrading, standardizing, and integrating acute patient care services in the to offer a world-class, seamless patient experience across both facilities on the main campus extending ambulatory care , administration, and housing resources to the surrounding neighborhood and region concentrating and expanding research and education efforts primarily in the southeast corner of the main campus, with further growth extending to sites off-campus as well maintaining a robust and scalable infrastructure to meet NYU Langone’s energy and infrastructure needs now and in the future The overarching goal of this campus transformation is to uphold our mission of being a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center. Building the Helen L. & Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Building the Energy Building Transforming Tisch Hospital Building the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services Building the Science Building Ambulatory Care Expansion Art Program NYU Langone’s mission to serve, teach, and discover is achieved through the leadership of a team of executives, department chairs deans trustees and overseers Learn more about our executive leadership team. RobertI. Grossman, MD Dean and Chief Executive Officer Steven B. Abramson, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs, Chief Academic Officer Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Science, Chief Scientific Officer Andrew W. Brotman, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Clinical Affairs and Strategy, Chief Clinical Officer Fritz François, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Hospital Operations Elizabeth Golden Executive Vice President for Communications, Marketing, Government and Community Affairs JosephJ. Greco, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Annette Johnson, JD, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, General Counsel Grace Y. Ko Executive Vice President for Development and Alumni Affairs Joseph J. Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Financial Officer and Chief of Staff Vicki Match Suna, AIA Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Real Estate Development and Facilities Nader Mherabi Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Digital and Information Officer Bret J. Rudy, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Nancy Sanchez Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Human Resources Trustees & Overseers NYU Langone Health has the highest quality of care and patient safety rankings of any healthcare organization in the country. Evaluated across all key measures and ratings of healthcare performance, we are the top academic health system in the nation. Recognized for Outstanding Quality and Safety NYU Langone is recognized by Vizient, Inc. as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the United States. Vizient, the nation’s largest healthcare performance improvement organization, examined 115 comprehensive academic medical centers. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect our commitment to continual improvement. For the past 11 years, NYU Langone has received top rankings for overall patient safety and quality of care from Vizient. In 2024, NYU Langone was recognized as the top performer in the Bernard A. Birnbaum, MD, Quality Leadership Annual Ranking for demonstrating high quality and safety performance. Each year, we are recognized for providing outstanding care from other independent healthcare performance improvement organizations. The Leapfrog Group has routinely named NYU Langone among the top hospitals nationwide for quality and safety, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has honored us with a five-star rating for safety, quality, and patient experience. In addition, NYU Langone’s were each awarded an “A” in the spring 2024 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, a national distinction that recognizes NYU Langone’s achievement in providing the highest level of patient care across the health system and an honor attained by only 30 percent of hospitals across the country. Why Quality Matters Our patients can find confidence and take comfort in these independent assessments of our performance. As rigorous authorities, these organizations offer solid reassurance that NYU Langone is worthy of the trust our patients place in us. VIDEO: Dr. Ilseung Cho discusses why quality and safety matter for patients, and how Vizient rankings are a valuable resource for us to understand how NYU Langone performs compared to other healthcare systems around the country. The National Academy of Medicine defines healthcare quality as having several key components: effectiveness, efficiency, equity, patient-centeredness, safety, and timeliness. At NYU Langone, we continuously monitor more than 800 metrics, ranging from infection rates to patient experience scores, to ensure quality and safety at every level of patient care. Available to every clinician in the health system, our data dashboards provide real-time information that offers insight into the progress of our performance and helps identify opportunities for enhancement. But quality means more than just metrics. We understand that every datapoint we track represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect this shared commitment to continual improvement based on evidence-based medicine and institutional integrity. Top-Ranked Specialties ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25, including the No. 1 ranking for neurology and neurosurgery. We are tied for No. 1 for pulmonology and lung surgery. To be nationally ranked in a specialty, a hospital must excel in caring for the most ill, most medically complex patients. NYU Langone is consistently recognized for our specialty care, with 13 top-ranked specialties: : No. 1 pulmonology and lung surgery : No. 1 (tie) : No. 2 geriatrics : No. 2 (tie) : No. 3 rehabilitation : No. 4 (tie) : No. 5 gastroenterology and GI surgery : No. 9 ear, nose, and throat : No. 10 cancer : No. 17 : No. 19 (tie) Our CMS rating and rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals—different from the way many other health systems operate. Some report only on their main hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Awards and Recognition By making regulatory compliance a top priority, The Joint Commission—the country’s leading accreditor of healthcare organizations—awarded NYU Langone full accreditation and its Gold Seal of Approval in recognition of our commitment to safety and quality five consecutive times, most recently in 2021. We’re also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a , meaning our team of neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, and specially trained nurses based at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide the most advanced care. The Comprehensive Stroke Center also earned the American Heart Association’s Get with the Guidelines—Stroke Gold Plus and Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus award, which recognizes our consistent compliance with quality measures for treating stroke. The Joint Commission has also recognized us for excellence in perinatal, palliative, and ventricular assist device care. Excellence in Nursing Across NYU Langone, our nurses drive exceptional patient care outcomes through their combination of clinical expertise, dedication, and compassion. Our nurses are recognized for excellence in the care they provide, receiving Magnet status for the fourth consecutive time by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Magnet status is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of hospitals in the United States—and we are proud that all NYU Langone inpatient locations are Magnet designated. The prestigious recognition is one of the highest honors a healthcare institution can achieve, and speaks to exceptional teamwork and coordination not only among nurses, but among all faculty and staff. To earn Magnet designation, organizations must pass a rigorous and lengthy process that demands widespread participation from leadership and staff. Through our various educational programs, specialty certifications, awards, and advocacy efforts, our nurses prove their dedication to the health and wellbeing of our patients. At NYU Langone, our nationally recognized nurses are committed to providing world-class care and improving patient outcomes. NYU Langone’s focus on high reliability and patient safety, quality care, and continual improvement gives our nurses a strong presence as patient advocates, decision makers, and collaborative partners. NYU Langone nurses deliver the best and safest patient care by embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team. Our culture supports and encourages the voice of our nurses in all aspects of patient care delivery, and nurses participate in all organization-wide initiatives to ensure that patients and their families are at the center of all we do. ambulatory nursing Magnet designation mother–baby care stroke care nurse residency programs nursing research our leadership team Promoting Excellence in Nursing Our nursing mission aligns with NYU Langone’s five core values of performance, respect, integrity, diversity, and excellence, which enables our team to build on our tradition of service, to foster a culture of collaboration and teamwork, and to better meet the needs of our patients. Our nursing mission requires critical thinking in scholarly inquiry, the use of research, and ongoing development of evidence-based practice to promote new knowledge and interdisciplinary collaboration, support patient safety, and strengthen the discipline of nursing. We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff through continuing education, preceptorships, professional development opportunities, and mentorship programs. We also bestow a variety of nursing excellence awards to our nurses during Nurses’ Week celebrations at each of our hospitals. NYU Langone has one of the most educated professional nursing staff in the country. 92 percent of our registered nursing clinical staff hold a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree, while nearly 9 percent hold a master of science in nursing (MSN) degree or above. 38 percent of our nurses also hold a specialty nursing certificate. At the nurse leadership level, 99 percent hold a BSN degree, 53 percent hold an MSN degree, and 10 percent hold a doctoral degree. In addition, 60 percent of our nurse leaders hold a specialty certification. Quality Care and Innovations in Ambulatory Nursing As integral members of our award-winning ambulatory care network, our nurses provide competent, safe, and compassionate care, with the emphasis on relationship building with patients and families. Our ambulatory nurses use the steps of the nursing process that include assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation so patients are educated about their health and what to expect during treatment. Many of our ambulatory care nurses hold certifications set by external national organizations in their area of expertise. Magnet Designation for Superior Nursing Care NYU Langone nurses consistently receive awards on the national level, including recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center’s (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program . The Magnet designation is granted every four years to only those organizations that demonstrate sustained superiority in nursing care. NYU Langone’s have earned this distinction. recognition is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of all hospitals in the United States, with less than 1 percent receiving this designation 4 or more times, including Tisch Hospital. Exemplar Recognitions at Our Hospitals NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion nursing teams have received five exemplars, or examples of best practices, in the following areas: reducing mortality rates through NYU Langone’s rapid response teams, comprising nurses who deliver care immediately during emergencies interdisciplinary collaboration with our information technology teams in our electronic records system, Epic, to develop an innovative workflow for alerting clinicians if a patient has measles gender-affirming care, highlighting that NYU Langone is a