340, November 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the training ofoutreach workers to serve American Indianelders with visual impairment and diabetes.The incidence of blindness and visualimpairment resulting from diabetic retinopathyis higher among American Indians than in theoverall population. Additionally, the number73Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsand life expectancy of American Indian eldershave increased consistently over the past 40years, so that a larger portion of this populationare living many more years as blind or visuallyimpaired persons. These statistics, coupledwith the data that indicate American Indianswith disabilities are substantiallyunderrepresented in state and federalrehabilitation service systems, shows the needfor an innovative service delivery model. In aneffort to improve access to services, theAmerican Foundation for the Blind (AFB)proposed to train indigenous communityoutreach workers in the basics of independentliving skills. Through funding from theAdministration on Aging and in cooperationwith the Indian Health Service (IHS), AFBdeveloped and implemented a two phaseindependent living skills training projectentitled, A Training Model to TeachCommunity Outreach Workers to Train ElderlyBlind and Visually Impaired American IndiansIndependent Living Skills: Focus on FamilyRehabilitation. The project was conductedfrom 1987 to 1990 and was guided by anational advisory committee. During Phase I ofthe project, staff (1) developed a culturallysensitive model curriculum on aging and visionloss and training in independent living skills,(2) conducted 7 week sessions that trained acore of 250 community health representatives(CHR's), and (3) evaluated the training throughfollow up surveys and visits to reservations.Phase II focused on preparing IHS to continueto use the model curriculum to train additionalCHR's and to incorporate a core component ofthe curriculum into their basic training. TheCHR's who specialized in work with the elderlyor who had many elderly clients in theircaseloads were given priority for training.Training sessions were located off thereservations in conference hotels and wereconducted by AFB staff and local experts in thefield of blindness. To determine theeffectiveness of the training, the AFB staffdesigned information gathering and assessmentinstruments. As a result of the project, trainingin independent living skills in the home hasenhanced care to increase the maximum level ofindependent and interdependent functioning ofolder visually impaired American Indians.2 tables, 17 references. (HE9700613)109Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleIV:Diabetes.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 65 pages, 1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module IV:Diabetes is one of a series of sixmodules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This module covers diabetes and supportingwomen with diabetes for health advisors. Unit1 introduces diabetes and gives the definition,types of diabetes, and screening and diagnosismethods. Unit 2 discusses managing diabetesthrough the topics of monitoring blood sugar,74Diabetescontrolling blood sugar with insulin, healthyeating, exercise for healthy living, oralmedication, and coping with diabetes.Unit 3discusses short and long term complications ofdiabetes and sick day management. A list ofrecommended resources is provided at the endof the module. (HE9800125)75Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsNutrition110Arizona Education Program DevelopsIndigenous Health Manpower.Form:Journal article.Authors:Eichelberger, C.I.; White, M.;Braun, H.J.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation. 71(2):143 146, August 1977.student in competency based instructionalmaterials (modules). Aides enrolled on avoluntary basis.Materials, the delivery system,staff development and use, and programadministration and student performance wasevaluated by Central Arizona College, theArizona Department of Health Services, and anoutside contractor. 2 tables, 9 references.(HE9700068)Abstract:Health professionals in Arizonadescribe the Dietetic Education Program, a stateprogram that aimed to provide optimal nutritionstatus in all communities by trainingcommunity workers in public health nutrition.Although a demonstration project in 1970resulted in the employment of 110 communitynutrition/health workers throughout Arizona,the recent expansion of nutritional servicesmeant a corresponding increase in staffingneeds in rural areas and Indian reservations. Toaddress this issue, a junior college agreed toprovide academic training for these workers inconjunction with the Arizona Bureau ofNutrition Services. The program, the pilotphase of which began in January 1976 with 27workers, was designed to achieve the followingobjectives within a 5 year period:(1) 100workers will achieve greater proficiency, jobsatisfaction, and job mobility, (2) 50 workerswill be trained for level II Community Nutritionpositions, (3) 25 workers will be trained foradvanced nutrition positions and formembership in the American DieteticAssociation, (4) 5 workers will be prepared toqualify for admission to a B.S. degree programin nutrition, and (5) a career ladder position willbe designed for community nutrition personnel.The personalized system of instruction allowedpersonal contact between the instructor and the111Influence of a Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) on Infant Nutrition inEast Harlem.Form:Journal article.Authors: Bowering, J.; Lowenberg, R.L.;Morrison, M.A.; Parker, S.L.; Tirado, N.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation. 72(4):392 397, April 1978.Abstract: The effectiveness of nutrition aidework with physicians, nurses, and nutritionistsin the Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) in East Harlem, New York,was assessed in a study of infants from low income families attending a hospital's well baby clinic. The evaluation focused on threeareas on which the aides' teaching rolescentered: milk intake, variety of foodsconsumed, and anemia risk. The nutritionistobtained information on the infant's age inmonths when whole milk became part of thediet. From the information on a 24 hour dietaryrecall, taken from homemakers by aides, avariety score was computed on the basis ofwhether a particular food category wasreported. Assessment of an individual infant'sanemia risk was based on hemoglobinmeasurements from several clinic visits. A77Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorscontrol group of infants received no aide visits.Findings revealed that (1) a trend towarddelaying the introduction of whole milk toinfants in favor of formula was consistentlyobserved in the study group; (2) more foodcategories were mentioned on recall by mothersof study group infants; and (3) 70 percent ofstudy group infants were at low risk of anemia,as compared to 56 percent of control groupinfants.Findings demonstrate the benefits ofreinforcing clinical well baby care with one to one contact and advice by aides working inpeople's homes.13 references. (HE7900046)112Weight Management Practices of BlackParaprofessional Women.and eating behaviors.Researchers alsodeveloped four data collection instruments: (1)a nutrition knowledge instrument that included25 true/false statements; (2) a dietary intakeinstrument that listed 39 food groupings forwhich respondents reported frequency ofconsumption; (3) an exercise practicesinstrument consisting of four statements scoredon a 5 point scale; and (4) an eating behaviorsinstrument consisting of nine statements scoredon a 5 point scale. The treatment group hadsignificantly better dietary intake, nutritionknowledge, exercise practices, eating behaviors,weight, body mass index, and fewer sick leavehours used.Researchers noted no significantimprovements for the control group.1 table,4 references. (HE9200281)Form:Journal article.Authors: Reames, B.; Burnett, M.F.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation.9 1(7): 84 1 843, July 1991.Abstract:Researchers studied the effect ofparticipation in a weight control workshop byblack female paraprofessionals employed asExpanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) nutrition aides on selectedindexes, including dietary intake, nutritionknowledge, exercise practices, eating behaviors,anthropometric measurements, and sick leavehours used. Approximately 19 black urbannutrition aides participated in the HealthyWeight Workshop, during which they receivedweight control information for personal andEFNEP participant use.Researchers recruited asecond group of1 8 black urban nutrition aidesto participate as the control group. Researcherscollected data from both groups1 week before,1 week after, and 6 months after the workshop.Researchers developed a Healthy WeightWorkshop consisting of a series of six weightcontrol sessions emphasizing lifestyle changesin diet (1,200 Kcal food group plan), exercise,78Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsTobacco Control113Heart, Body, and Soul: Impact of Church Based Smoking Cessation Interventions onReadiness to Quit.Form:Journal article.Authors: Voorhees, C.C.; Stillman, F.A.;Swank, R.T.; Heagerty, P.J.; Levine, D.M.;Becker, D.M.Source:Preventive Medicine. 25(3):277 285,May June 1996.Abstract:Researchers determined the effect ofan intensive, spiritually based churchintervention on smoking behavior stages,compared with a minimal self help strategy alsoadministered in churches. The catchment areaof the study represented 2 1 contiguous censustracts constituting East Baltimore andconsisting of 71,291 residents. Of the 130churches in the catchment area, researchersinvited 23 to participate in the study. Theyrandomly assigned churches to receive either anintensive, environmentally oriented, culturallyspecific intervention or an individual self helpintervention.Researchers obtained data onsmoking status and stage of readiness from thecongregation members at church health fairsheld before and1 year after initiation of theinterventions.Multiple logistic regressionresults, controlling for intrachurch correlationand demographic and baseline smokingcharacteristics, showed that the multimodalcultural intervention group was more likely tomake positive progress along the stages ofchange continuum, compared with the self helpintervention group. Church denomination andintervention status interacted in the multivariatemodel, with Baptists in the intensiveintervention being three times more likely tomake progress than all the other denominationgroups. The researchers conclude that themultimodal, culturally relevant intervention wasmore likely than a self help intervention topositively influence smoking behavior.2 figures, 4 tables, 25 references. (HE9600839)79Issues of AgingQuality of Life114Friendly Visitor Program:Its Impact onthe Social and Mental Functioning of theElderly.Form:Journal article.Author: Mulligan, M.A.Source:Issues in Mental Health Nursing.1:1 11, Spring 1978.Abstract: Over a 6 month period during 1971,the author evaluated the effect of the FriendlyVisitor Program on behavior patterns regardinggrooming and apartment upkeep (markers forsocial adjustment) of a small, nonrandomsample of isolated elderly people living on theUpper West Side of New York City. TheFriendly Visitor program sought to reconnectthe participants to others, give some indicationof an awareness of their presence in thecommunity, and show concern for their well being.Six months after the visiting ended, theauthors followed up to determine if there wasany evidence of delayed deterioration in thosereceiving regular visiting as compared withthose who were not visited regularly. Thesample, consisting of 24 persons over age 64years (median age 77.5 years), was divided intoexperimental and control groups.Participantsin the experimental group received hour longstructured visits by one of five pairs of trainedvolunteer visitors every 2 weeks for 6 months.The same pair of visitors visited participants inthe control group once in the beginning of thestudy and once at the end. An interviewschedule, designed to assess the greetingbehavior, grooming, apartment upkeep,cognitive awareness, and mental state of thevisitee, was part of each visit. After each of the12 visits to the experimental group and 2 to thecontrol group, the visitors gathered data on theappropriateness of the behavior of the visitees.Only on the first and last visits, when a pretestand posttest were administered, was any writingdone in the presence of the visitees. Resultsshow that none of the experimental group wereeither institutionalized or deceased upon followup, while in the control group, three participantswere in nursing homes and one was deceased.During the follow up visit, the friendly visitorobserved a significant improvement in thenumber of social contacts by the participants inthe experimental group. There was steadyimprovement in grooming and apartmentupkeep over the entire period for theexperimental group; however, at the follow upvisit, there was a decrease in both grooming andapartment upkeep.It seemed that thetermination of the program deprived the visiteesof a motivating factor for caring about theirappearance and living quarters. The findingsshowed that the mental state of theexperimental group improved over the course ofthe visiting. The control group showed littlechange in apartment upkeep and a markednegative change in grooming. The researchersconclude that friendly visitor programs can bevital links between the isolated aged andcommunity services available for their physical,mental, and social welfare. Also, with propertraining for the friendly visitors, the programcan become a crisis prevention measure and analternative to institutionalization.20 references. (HE9700346)81Issues of Aging115Natural Helpers: Tools for Working Withthe Chronically Mentally 111 Elderly.Form:Journal article.Author: Quam, J.K.Source:Gerontologist.December 1984.24(6):564 567,Abstract: A professor at the School of SocialWork at the University of Minnesota presentsinformation about Sentinel House, program thatserved the needs of elderly patients withchronic schizophrenia and built on the conceptof natural helping networks.In 1982, theDepartment of Public Welfare funded servicesto the chronically mentally ill persons living inboard and lodging facilities.Sentinel Househad as its key social support component naturalhelpers (i.e., friends, other residents, familymembers, neighbors, and anyone who served aspart of an enduring support system and acted asa buffer against psychological problems).Sentinel House offered a combination of in house services and linkage to existingcommunity supports for 17 chronicallymentally ill older adults aged 40 to 80 years.The program focused specifically on (1)independent living skills, (2) building ofpersonal support through natural and devisednetworks, and (3) use of existing communityresources and natural helpers. Networkbuilding was also carried out at the communitylevel. Program ideas included (1) continuationof informal activities that already existed withinthe facility, (2) more formalized roles fornatural leaders and opportunity for residentinvolvement, (3) more formalized roles fornatural support systems outside the facility, (4)greater emphasis on natural supports asopposed to formalized services, (5) more staffactivities gradually shifting to residents, (6)greater emphasis on activities that meetresidents' developmental needs, and (7)consideration of pets as natural helpers. Theresearcher conclude that programs for theelderly that seek to encourage a realityorientation and maintain relationships shouldconsider the importance of using naturalhelping systems as therapeutic tools.14 references. (HE9700081)116Nutrition and Social Service Program forOlder People: An Urban Model.Form:Journal article.Authors: Gemple, N.; Hogue, J.Source: American Journal of ClinicalNutrition.26(10): 1098 1 105, October 1973.Abstract: The authors describe a trial model ofa nutrition and social services program for olderpeople. One of the first steps for the programplanners is to delineate the proposed servicearea and begin the task of surveying the needsof the older people in the area. From suchanalysis of needs, program planners canformulate the objectives that will provide thenecessary direction and guidance for theoperation of the program and provide the basisfor program evaluation. The project shouldselect a facility that is accessible and acceptableto the older persons in the area and from whichthe following activities and services could beprovided:(1) daily meals containing not lessthan one third of the recommended dietaryallowance of the nutrients as described by theNational Research Council; (2) counseling inthe areas of health, nutrition, and social welfare;(3) information and referral services; (4)recreation activities and other opportunities forsocial involvement; (5) outreach activities toidentify isolated and other potential consumers;and (6) transportation and escort services tomeal settings and other needed social services.The authors describe the qualifications andduties of the basic core staff needed to operate a82Quality of Lifenutrition and related service program.Staffmust include (1) project director, (2) socialworker, (3) secretary/bookkeeper, (4) dietaryconsultant, (5) cook, (6) dishwasher/janitor, (7)outreach workers, (8) volunteers, and (9)supplementary staff from other relevant publicand private agencies.5 references.(HE9700304)83Issues of AgingOlder Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populations117Black Aged as Good Neighbors: AnExperiment in Volunteer Service.Form:Journal article.Author:Faulkner, A.O.Source:Gerontologist.December 1975.15(6):554 559,Abstract: Researchers investigated theeffectiveness of enlisting 200 elderly blackpersons to serve as volunteers in theircommunities. The project was conceived as anattempt to simulate the service that wouldordinarily be given at a typical senior center.The population consisted of approximately 200elderly black individuals in randomly selectedhouseholds. The program service staff wasprofessional and included a director and sixfamily consultants. The family consultantswere community residents who understood theirfellow residents and their community'sproblems. Their education varied from highschool graduate to1 year of college; they werefrom 30 to 60 years old. The volunteers wereasked to run errands, make telephone calls,write a letter or read to persons who could not,do light housekeeping chores for the ill, andoffer comfort, support, and solace to the sickand the bereaved. The environment of thecrime ridden neighborhood, however, provokedsecurity concerns that negated attempts todeploy the elderly volunteers as goodneighborly participants in one to one contact.Additionally, the research design did notprovide for enough outside or additionalprofessional training and daily support for theparaprofessional family consultants.Researchers conclude that any attempt toinstitute a good neighbor to good neighborpattern of volunteer service must include givingvolunteers sufficient training and emotionalsupport from experienced professional socialworkers so that an effective volunteer programcan be created within a community.19 references. (HE9700347)118Enhancement of Individual andCommunity Competence: The Older Adultas Community Worker.Form:Journal article.Authors:Gatz, M.; Barbarin, O.A.; Tyler, F.B.;Mitchell, R.E.; Moran, J. A.; Wirzbicki, P.J.;Crawford, J.; Engelman, A.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.10(3):291 303, 1982.Abstract:In a 2 year primary preventionprogram, employed older adults served asindigenous community educators of other olderadults residing in the community. The programgoal was to increase adaptive strengths of boththe workers and the residents along twodimensions:their self perceived competence asindividuals and their level of competence withinthe community. The project was conducted in20 towns: 10 each of 2 suburban mental healthcachement areas. Area A was 67.6 percentblack and area B was 90.5 percent white.Median income in both areas was $9,000. Bothareas were characterized by high residentmobility. Twenty two older people wereemployed as community workers (10 whites, 11blacks, and1 Hispanic; 18 females and 4males). They had contact with three categoriesof residents:those selected at random, olderadults referred to workers for particularproblems, and residents selected for contact by85Issues of Agingthe workers. An evaluation focused on subsetsof 78 residents who completed pre and post individual competence measures. Individualcompetence measures assessed included self efficacy or locus of control, interpersonal trust,problem solving abilities, and life satisfaction.A survey of community residents assessedattitudes, knowledge, and self reportedbehavior. A control group of 30 residentscompleted only a posttest that asked whetherthe residents knew about various communityservices and how they would solve hypotheticalproblems. At the same time, communityworkers provided residents with a resourcedirectory of agencies and services and madethemselves available to help with personal orcommunity problems. Of the problemsreported to the community workers, 76.7percent were related to services, such astransportation, housing, clothing, food stamps,and Medicaid.Results showed that the workersand residents increased their knowledge and useof community services as a result of theprogram.2 tables, 21 references.(HE9700093)119Experiences in Systematic Training in aRural Program for Elderly Mississippians.Form:Journal article.Author: Williams, L.Source: American Journal of ClinicalNutrition.26(10): 1 138 1 142, October 1973.Abstract: A community worker discusses theexperiences encountered in developing atraining program for elderly persons in theMississippi Delta. The original objective of theprogram was to develop an agency to plan,organize, and operate a nutritional researchprogram and demonstration for the aging poorin the area. While nutrition proved to be animportant service to these individuals, it soonbecame clear that many other services would beneeded before the nutrition service would haveany effect on the lives of the individuals beingserved by the agency. Soon after the programbegan, the agency began providing arts andcrafts programs as well as other social andrecreational opportunities. During the finalyear of operation of the agency, the directorsdeveloped a program that centered around peereducation activities led by many of the elderlyprogram participants. The program leadersselected older individuals who understood theprinciples of nutrition and encouraged them toteach good nutrition habits to other programparticipants.In all, 20 individuals in theprogram volunteered to become communitynutrition aides. These individuals visited otherswho were not involved in the program, goinginto their homes and looking for the signs ofnutritional problems. Many aides becameinvolved in other activities in the communityand in the home, and their overall outlook onlife was improved. A test given by staff toprogram participants showed that the nutritionknowledge of participants improved. Theprogram demonstrated the crucial importance ofproviding comprehensive services to the agedindividual. (HE9700320)120Guidelines for Older Person Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sainer, J.; Zander, M.Source:Gerontologist.11(3, Part l):201 204,Autumn 1971.Abstract: The authors discuss the initialguidelines that emerged from Project SERVE, aprogram of volunteer service by older personslocated on Staten Island, New York. ProjectSERVE was designed to test the effectivenessof group methods in recruiting, placing,training, and retaining older persons as86Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsvolunteers providing service in communityagencies. About 640 volunteers were recruited,placed, and trained; more than 70 percent arestill active in the program 3 years after programinception in 1967.Results of the SERVEprogram indicated that volunteer programs byolder persons will be most successful when theprogram is structured to provide features thatare familiar and meaningful to the social classacclimation and experiences of the potentialvolunteer, and least successful when it is not.Guidelines to attract and retain volunteersinclude (1) program staff must help the agencydevelop opportunities that are most appropriateto the experience and background of thevolunteers being recruited; (2) the groupapproach is especially valuable for oldervolunteers; (3) the volunteer should be offered avariety of placement choices; (4) program staffgives personalized attention to each volunteer;(5) the project should make efforts to gainpublic recognition from the broadercommunity; (6) volunteer transportation isessential to recruitment, placement, andretention; and (7) no potential volunteer shouldbe turned away because of a lack of social orjob skills. (HE9700348)121Health Education as a Basis for SocialSupport.Form:Journal article.Authors:Campbell, R.; Chenoweth, B.Source:Gerontologist.21(6):619 627,December 1981.Abstract: The authors describe the PeerSupport System, an effort to complementmedical programs with psychosocial support forthe elderly and their families. The project wasconducted in four different sites:(1) the TurnerGeriatric Clinic at the University of MichiganHospital (the ongoing site), (2) a seniornutrition site, (3) a nursing home, and (4) acommunity hospital in a rural area. Theobjectives of the project were to involve olderpeople in the provision of mental healthservices, including health education, incoordination with existing community agencies.The program consisted of recruiting andtraining peer counselors and conductingmonthly health education workshops. The peercounselors were recruited in their owncommunities and trained at the site where theywould work. Eighteen hours of training werescheduled and conducted by a social workerand psychiatric nurse.Training sessions werefollowed by meetings twice a month.Overalltraining goals were (1) to teach peer counselorshow to conduct workshops that would best meetthe needs of the people at their site, (2) todevelop awareness in peer counselors of theirown special skills and interests, and (3) toacquaint the peer counselors with each other,thereby establishing a sense of identity as a peercounselor group. The health focusedworkshops were initiated first since it wasbelieved they would attract a broad audience ofolder adults. Small discussion groups werefacilitated within the large workshop when thepeer counselors thought the issues addressedappeared to warrant further exploration.Participants expressing the need for individualattention were contacted by peer counselors andstaff.Finally, the information generated in theworkshops was compiled and distributed to aneven wider audience of all ages.Staff included1 part time social worker,1 full timepsychiatric nurse,1 part time program assistant,and 17 graduate students working in variouscapacities during the 2 year period. To monitorthe effectiveness of the program, evaluationswere performed among workshop participantsand among the peer counselors. During a2 year period, 48 peer counselors developedprograms for 2,500 people, accounting for87Issues of Aging5,000 participant contacts.1 table,25 references. (HE9700614)122Impact of Race on Volunteer HelpingRelationships Among the Elderly.Form:Journal article.Authors: Morrow Howell, N.; Lott, L.;Ozawa, M.Source:Social Work.35(5):395 402,September 1990.Abstract:Researchers sought to betterunderstand volunteer behavior by exploringhow race influences relationships betweenvolunteers and the people they serve. Datasources included 83 volunteers in thecommunity self help program, 246 clients in thesame community self help program, and 1agency staff member. Trained interviewersconducted in home interviews with thevolunteers and their clients from January1through July 31, 1985. An agency staff memberprovided information about the effectiveness ofthe volunteers from a professional perspective.The researchers obtained descriptions of thevolunteers' age, education, income, physicalfunctioning, health, mental health, and socialsupport to determine whether differencesexisted in personal characteristics betweenblack and white volunteers.Staff ratedvolunteers' overall effectiveness based onhelpfulness, attendance, perception of training,time spent in volunteer activities with clients,and ratings of effectiveness by professionalstaff. Three variables measured clientevaluation of volunteer behavior:level oftelephone contact, level of in person contact,and ratings of helpfulness. The analysisrevealed that race alone does not affectvolunteer helping behavior; black and whiteolder adults perform similarly in volunteer roleson measures of time committed to service andsatisfaction levels of clients. However, theracial composition of the dyad does havesignificant effects on the helping relationship;higher levels of contact and client satisfactionwere reported when the volunteer and the clientare of the same race.Researchers conclude thattraining and support are necessary to overcomeproblems associated with racial differencesbetween volunteers and their clients.5 tables,35 references. (HE9700085)123Is Volunteering a Substitute for Role Lossin Old Age? An Empirical Test of ActivityTheory.Form:Journal article.Author: Chambre, S.M.Source:Gerontologist.24(3) :292 298, June1984.Abstract: An educator sought to determinewhether volunteering is used as a substitute forrole loss in old age by examining whetherindividuals who lack ties to work and to familytend to volunteer more frequently and to devotemore time to volunteering than do thosemaintaining such involvement. Two measuresof volunteering were used:(1) volunteerparticipation, as determined by responses from4,339 participants who had been asked whetherthey had performed any unpaid volunteer workbetween April 1973 and April 1974, and (2)commitment of volunteers, which was based ona score assigned to individuals in response tothe frequency and total number of hours theyhad volunteered in the past year. Discussions ofthe importance of volunteering for the elderlyreflect the influence of activity theory, whichsuggests that volunteering is a work substitute;study findings, however, suggest that othersocial characteristics such as socioeconomicstatus and sex have a greater influence onvolunteer patterns of the elderly. The educator88Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsconcludes that an understanding of the level ofvolunteer activity among the elderly cannot beexplained by activity theory, and may be betteraddressed by applying continuity theory.7 tables, 22 references. (HE9700082)124Natural Helping Among Older Adults.Form:Journal article.Author: Goodman, C.C.Source:Gerontologist.24(2): 138 143, April1984.Abstract: A professor of social work at theUniversity of Southern California reports on asurvey of neighbors in retirement housing thatsought to identify distinguishing characteristicsand natural helping styles of persons within adynamic informal support system. The studyasked what demographic, social, health, andpersonality characteristics were related to socialexchange types:high helpers, mutual helpers,and isolated persons in the neighborhood whoneither give nor take actively with neighbors. Asample of 67 elderly persons was drawnrandomly to represent residents of twopurposively selected, age segregated housingdevelopments within a single middle incomecommunity. The 2 hour interviews containedopen ended questions to elicit acts of givingand taking for specific neighbors.Demographic characteristics such as age, sex,marital status, ethnicity, religious affiliation,education, and previous occupation weremeasured. Findings confirm a typology ofthree neighborhood exchange types:(1) highhelpers, who exhibit a quasiprofessional style ofhelping without reciprocation; (2) mutualhelpers, who show an interdependent style ofgive and take; and (3) neighborhood isolatedpeople, whose social ties and help sources areprimarily located outside the neighborhood.The social exchange types identified in thisstudy offer a foundation on which to buildprogram models that can more closely addresscommunity weaknesses and capitalize oncommunity strengths.1 figure,1 table,21 references. (HE9700083)125Older Rural Natural Helpers: Gender andSite Differences in the Helping Process.Form:Journal article.Author:Patterson, S.L.Source:Gerontologist.27(5):639 644,October 1987.Abstract:Researchers sought to describe thecharacteristics of older, rural, natural helpers, tohelp recipients examine the kinds of assistanceelderly helpers provide to different types ofrecipients, and to identify similarities anddifferences in the helping process used byfemale and male helpers in two differentregions of the country. The type of helpersought for interviewing was defined as one whoprovides spontaneous, informal help torelatives, friends, and neighbors, usually on aone to one basis.In all, 91 people from rurallocations (45 from the Midwest and 46 fromNew England) were identified as helpers from apool of people identified by community groupsand individual residents. In person interviewswere conducted with 40 older individuals ineach site by experienced social workers. TheNatural Helper Interview Schedule wasconstructed to obtain information on (1) helperand recipient characteristics, (2) helpingtechniques, (3) relationships, (4) helper style,(5) problem type, (6) perceived outcome, and(7) effectiveness (helpfulness). All identifiedhelpers were white, the majority were in their60's and 70's, married, relatively well educated,Protestants, and retired or homemakers. Therecipients were the relatives, friends, andneighbors of the helpers; the majority of89Issues of Agingrecipients, whether employed or retired, held orhad held skilled rather than professionalpositions.Results indicate that although femaleand male helpers were similar on demographicvariables, there were marked sex differencesassociated with helper motivation, helpinitiation, helping style, and perceived outcome.More females, for example, cited caring aboutpeople as their major motivation for helpingwhereas more men reported being motivated bya sense of moral obligation to help others.Conversely, few site differences emerged in twodissimilar regions of the country. The study hasimplications for mental health professionals inidentifying and understanding the preventiveand restorative activities of older relatives,friends, and neighbors in rural communities.4 tables, 31 references. (HE9700080)126Older Volunteers: A Discussion of theMinnesota Senior Study.Form:Journal article.Authors:Fischer, L.R.; Mueller, D.R;Cooper, RW.Source:Gerontologist.3 1(2): 183 194, April1991.characteristics; (2) housing; (3) transportation;(4) health and daily functioning; (5) socialsupports; (6) employment; and (7) participationin volunteer work. The study found that 52percent of Minnesotans do volunteer work fororganizations, a rate considerably higher thanthat found in national surveys. Problems indefinition and methodology, however, haveconfounded analyses. Researchers conclude byproposing a new conceptual model forclassifying volunteer roles, based on threedimensions: whether volunteer service isformal (volunteer work for an organization) orinformal (voluntary services to individuals);whether the activity entails a regular or anoccasional time commitment; and the nature ofthe service activity (person to community,person to object, or person to person). 3 tables,23 references. (HE9700079)127Older Volunteers Use and Learn SpecialSkills in Seven Model Health Projects.Form:Journal Article.Author: Hickey, J.C.Source:Hospitals. 52(22): 128 130, 132,November 16, 1978.Abstract: Using findings from the MinnesotaSenior Study, researchers examine thetheoretical and methodological difficulties ofdefining, coding, and analyzing data on oldervolunteers and present a conceptual model fordefining and categorizing forms of voluntaryservice. Conducted during 1988 to 1989 by theWilder Research Center, the Minnesota SeniorStudy consisted of