impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Aurora c. Bell & Gossett d. Gould e. Peerless f. Weinman g. US Pump Corp NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 457 2023 D. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Substitute venture type orifice traps to F&T type for off site locations only. 12 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 23 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF PLUMBING SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 458 2023 5. FIRE PROTECTION A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, Factory Mutual Global Insurance or another insurance underwriter and all other applicable local Codes. Architectural and Engineering construction drawings shall specifically state that fire protection systems (standpipe, sprinkler and fire alarm/detection systems) and construction partitions during construction shall comply with the following: All projects: • The contractor shall provide the required fire watch for the duration of any fire protection system or rated construction partition impairment. • NYULH safety policy 120 Construction Safety Requirements • NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems • NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code Projects in New York City: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction or Demolition • Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2017 009 (or superseding bulletin) • Fire Code Chapter 14 Fire Safety during Construction, Alteration and Demolition Projects in New York State: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction • Fire Code Chapter 33 Fire Safety during Construction and Demolition Healthcare and Ambulatory Care occupancies: • NFPA 101 Life Safety Code • NFPA 241 Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations B. Design Criteria I. Buildouts shall be provided with full sprinkler protection and sprinkler systems shall be hydraulically calculated in accordance with the current City of New York Building Code and NYC Fire Department requirements. II. Fire department standpipe connections shall be provided with a 2 1/2 fire hose valve and hose rack on every landing of every required stairway. III. Areas without ceilings (storage, mechanical spaces, etc.) shall utilize upright sprinkler heads. IV. Areas with suspended ceilings (back of house areas, bathrooms, offices, etc.) shall utilize concealed sprinkler heads. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 459 2023 V. Areas subject to freezing shall utilize a dry pipe sprinkler system with upright sprinkler heads. VI. Generator Rooms shall be provided with dry pipe system or pre action sprinkler systems. Contact Facilities Operations for review and approval. VII.VI. Fuel Oil storage rooms shall be protected with a wet type foam sprinkler system or as reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. VIII.VII. New and retro fitted sprinkler systems shall have at least a 1 1/2” valve connection for draining. IX.VIII. Electrical Closets shall be provided with wet side wall sprinkler heads each with protective cages. X. All head end technical (IT) rooms are to be provided with a preaction sprinkler system. All intermediate data distribution (IT) rooms shall be provided with wet sprinklers. XI.IX. Elevator machine rooms that fall under DOH jurisdiction shall be protected by alternate means of fire suppression. This shall apply to new construction or major overhaul. XII.X. System types (wet, dry, preaction, foam, alternatives) must be reviewed with NYU Langone project managers and also with Facilities Operations during design development. XIII.XI. Pre Action systems shall be installed in X Ray, Gamma Knife, LINAC and any other similar sensitive equipment rooms. XIV.XII. Flexible sprinkler connections are allowed to be used in non New York City projects where applicable by code. Hoses shall be braided stainless steel with proper pressure rating. The flexible sprinkler connection shall be used in conjunction with an approved manufacturer ceiling mounting bracket. Mounting brackets shall be attached to a ceiling’s main tee bar support and not cross support rail members. Care shall be taken to prevent unnecessary movement which can dislodge ceiling mounting bracket when sprinkler is discharging. This may include supporting flexible sprinkler connection to building structure independent of the ceiling suspension and support system. XV.XIII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. XIV. Specify “Stat X” for article 28 elevator machine rooms in article 28 spaces in NYC. XVI.XV. Side wall sprinkler heads are preferred in IDF and BDF technology rooms. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 460 2023 C. Equipment 1. Anchors and Inserts Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Hilti c. Philips d. Simpson Strong Tie 2. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Allen Bradley b. ASCO c. General Electric d. Gould Westinghouse 3. Motors Approved Manufacturers: a. Baldor b. General Electric c. Toshiba d. U.S. Electric 4. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 5. Piping Piping shall be painted per building codes. Piping up to flow control assemblies shall be painted red. Approved Manufacturers: a. Flanges 1) Grinnell 2) Ladish 3) National Flange 4) Taylor Forge 5) Weld Bend b. Screwed Fittings 1) Central 2) Grinnell 3) Ward NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 461 2023 6. Preaction Control Panel/Equipment Pre action systems shall be addressable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Simplex b. Notifier c. Kidde Fire Systems 7. Preaction/Dry Pipe Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Reliable b. Viking c. Victaulic 8. Pressure Reducing Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Cla Val b. Watts 9. Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. Fire Pump Controllers 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Joslyn Clark 3) Hubbell (mercury free options) b. Fire Pump Controller Automatic Transfer Switch 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Eaton 3) Russelectric c. Fire Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Patterson 3) Peerless d. Jockey Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Groundfos 3) Peerless NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 462 2023 10. Standpipe System Equipment (Siamese, fire hose valves, fire hose cabinets, and racks, etc.) Approved Manufacturers: a. Badger Powhattan b. Croker c. Elkhart d. Potter Roemer 11. Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Tolco 12. Sprinkler Heads, Valves, Alarms, Etc. Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Reliable c. Viking 13. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality stickers. Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded per ASME A13.1). Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 in diameter, brass, aluminum or stainless steel with letters 2in in height. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Specify in specifications to post laminated valve tag schedules in space. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 463 2023 14. Tamper Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Acme b. Grinnell c. Potter (mercury free options) d. System Sensor (mercury free options) e. Viking 15. Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Butterfly Valves 1) Grinnell 2) Jamesbury 3) Jenkins 4) NIBCO 5) Victaulic b. Check Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Kennedy 4) Mueller 5) NIBCO 6) Victaulic c. Gate Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Jenkins 4) Kennedy 5) NIBCO 6) Walworth 16. Vibration Isolators Approved Manufacturers: a. Amber Booth b. Korfund Dynamics Corp. c. Mason Industries d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings & Controls 17. Water Flow Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Potter Electric Signal Company (mercury free options) b. System Sensor NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 464 2023 18. Water Proof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Thunderline Corp. “Link Seal” D. Cost Saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 2 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF FIRE PROTECTION SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 465 2023 6. FIRE ALARM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, and all other applicable local Codes. B. Design Criteria I. The following buildings have their separate respective EST3 fire alarm systems: a. Tisch Hospital b. Smilow Research Center c. Medical Science Building/Alumni Hall and Coles d. Schwartz Health Care Center e. 660 First Avenue f. 545 First Avenue II. All audibles and strobes shall be synced. III. Chimes shall be installed in all sensitive areas in lieu of tones/horns. Sensitive areas include Operating Rooms, NICU, Anesthesiology, and Pre Surgical. Contact Facilities Operations prior to designing in sensitive areas. Contractor shall obtain waiver if chimes are used in lieu of tones/horns. IV. For Operating Rooms: a. During a detected fire/smoke alarm, only the fan/unit serving the Operating Room which the alarm was generated at shall shut down. All other operating room fans shall stay operational. For central AHU systems a variance is required to be filed with the FDNY and DOB and shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. V. Newly installed smoke heads shall stay covered until completion of project. No more that dirty heads shall be accepted upon project completion. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. C. Equipment 1. Fire Alarm System Approved Manufacturers (no substitutes): a. Edwards EST3 (Manhattan Superblock) b. (Brooklyn Campus) Contact Brooklyn Facilities c. (Long Island Campus) Contact Long Island Facilities d. Contact Real Estate & Housing Group for all off site locations for manufacturer 2. Heat Detectors Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA2 HFS NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 466 2023 3. Strobe/Speaker Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSPSTR Series 4. Strobe/Horn Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LHSR Series 5. Strobe Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSTR Series 6. Smoke Detector Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA OSD 7. Duct Detector Above ceiling devices shall have separate LED indication and test buttons with magnetic test switch. Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA SDH 8. Manual Pull Station Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST 270 Series 9. Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems shall be installed in all Mechanical and Electrical rooms that have ceilings above 10 feet or where conduits/ductwork/equipment/etc. will prevent maintenance of smoke detector heads. Approved Manufacturers: a. VESDA END OF FIRE ALARM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 467 2023 7. BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Department of Fire, Department of Environmental Protection Agency and all other applicable local Codes. For properties located outside of the City of New York, the entire installation shall comply with all applicable local codes and standards. B. General Requirements and Policy i. General • For renovation work in existing buildings, the existing manufacturer shall be used. For example, the Kimmel Pavilion in the Main Campus is served by an Automated Logic Corporation system. Any modifications to the existing control system shall utilize Automated Logic Corporation controllers. • All controllers, sensors, field devices, etc., shall be UL listed. Control units shall be listed for UL 916 Energy Management Equipment. ii. Engineering • Design engineer shall provide a Network Riser as part of their design documentation. The Design Engineer shall not rely on the BMS contractor to create this. • Ensure BMS sequences of operation align with control sensors indicated on single line drawings. • Ensure BMS network is not on the IT network. • AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. • All new BAS installations shall utilize IP based local controllers. • For all systems that leverage both water and air to maintain climate control, always use water to achieve setpoints prior to additional use of air beyond minimum. o Minimum airflow determined by ventilation and/or pressurization requirements. iii. IP/IT Security • For details on policy for IP/IT security, reference the NYU Langone Health Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device StandardNYULH Design Guidelines for Security Control in Operational Technology System. • For sites with existing Tridium BMS's on the MCIT network, the BMS can remain on the MCIT network. For new sites installing a Tridium BMS, the BMS network should be stand alone and not part of the MCIT network. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 468 2023 iv. BMS Governance for Locations Not Owned by NYULH For NYULH locations not owned by NYULH (landlord locations): • Equipment owned and operated by NYULH shall be connected to the NYULH BMS. If an NYULH BMS does not exist, it shall be installed. • Equipment owned and operated by the landlord shall remain on the landlord's BMS. • An NYULH BMS shall be installed if the landlord does not maintain a BMS for the building or if the landlord's existing BMS does not meet NYULH standards. Under no circumstances shall a project connect NYULH maintained equipment to an existing landlord BMS network. v. Factory Acceptance/Witness Test Factory tests are required for new BMS Panels installs, Panels shall be reviewed and graphics/sequences tested at controls factory prior to shipment, this only applies to large equipment and systems. v.vi. Decommissioning and Demolition General • For any decommissioning and demolition worked performed on the NYULH Manhattan main campus, the engineer and project team shall follow the “NYULH Manhattan Campus BMS Controller Removal From Field and Database document. Obtain for Manhattan main campus facilities group. • The following items must be included within the “General Scope of Work” section of the Contract Documents: o As existing mechanical and electrical systems are demolished and replaced with new systems, the existing control system serving the demolished equipment must also be removed from the BMS, in its entirety, inclusive of all field devices, controllers, wiring and server related programming (i.e., graphics, trends, alarms, database, etc.) o The BATC Contractor is responsible for removing all items described below. Failure to complete any item listed below will require the BATC Contractor to perform this service free of charge when discovered, regardless of how much time has lapsed since the original demo project. o Prior to starting the decommissioning process, determine whether all points located within the controller are required to be decommissioned. If not, notify NYULH Facility Management Team to determine if the remaining points are to be relocated to a different controller or the controller is to remain. o The BATC Contractor shall be responsible for updating existing “as built” drawings for any systems/equipment which is demolished. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 469 2023 Decommissioning of Software • Remove all controller databases. • Transfer all alarms, trends and graphics associated with the system to Decommissioned Links graphic. o Note: Decommissioned Links graphic shall not be made available to typical users. For use by the BATC Contractor and the NYULH Facility Management Team management only. • Update all building and campus summary graphics to remove decommissioned systems. Decommissioning of Hardware • Determine whether the controller is the only controller on the power circuit. If so, label the circuit breaker (located in existing power distribution panel) as Spare. • Determine if the controller is at end of run of communication loop or if communication loop is dedicated to this controller. If controller is not at end of run in communication loop, then re terminate communication wiring such that existing controllers on same loop continue communications to server. o If controller is at end of run in communication loop, relocate any end of line resistors to the next controller in line. • Disconnect the following from the controller: o Communication wiring. o Power wiring. o All field wiring. • Remove conduit and wiring as much as possible. At a minimum, conduit and wiring shall be removed up to shaft or wall penetrations. Remaining conduit and wiring shall be tagged Not In Use. • Remove all control panels and field devices. Coordinate with NYULH Facility Management Team to determine whether any of the existing controllers and field devices may be used as attic stock. vi.vii. Delivery, Storage and Handling • Shipping and storage protection shall be provided by manufacturer to ensure that the interior and exterior of components are completely protected from damage, dirt or weather. Components shall be continuously covered with plastic or other durable means, until just prior to installation. Maintain protection after installation to protect against on going construction activities. vii.viii. Project Closeout General Requirements: • The following items must be included within the “Project Closeout” section of the Contract Documents: o Systems will not be added to the BMS network until they are fully commissioned, training has taken place, and operation and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 470 2023 o Training must be completed prior to occupancy and Facility Management Team acceptance. o The BATC Contractor will provide onsite 24/7 coverage for all warrantied systems until commissioning and training is complete and operations and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. Testing and Calibrating: • Commission and test the final installed system prior to acceptance by the Facility Management Team. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to calibrate and prepare for service control components, instrumentation and field devices. o This work includes: Zero, span and range calibration checks of instruments and accessories, both field mounted and panel mounted. In addition, check actuators, control valves and dampers to ensure proper action. Stroke each valve and damper actuator and make necessary adjustments for stem and blade travel. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to check the operation of control loops, set points and interlocks. Test every input/output point for proper performance through the entire system and maintain accurate test records for each point throughout the testing cycle and thereafter. The Facility Management Team reserves the right to inspect those test records at any time and also to witness any of the point tests they deem appropriate. • All equipment used for testing and calibration shall be NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable and calibrated within the preceding 12 month period. Certificates of calibration shall be available for review by the Facility Management Team. viii.ix. Warranty • Warranty direct digital control units, field devices, components, etc., to be free from defects in workmanship and material for a period of one (1) year from completion of final commissioning, which may occur beyond equipment acceptance and initial occupancy by NYULH. During this period, BATC Contractor shall furnish all labor to repair or replace all items or components that fail due to defects in workmanship or material. • Failures on control systems, including all computer equipment, transmission equipment and all sensors and control devices during the warranty period, shall be adjusted, repaired or replaced at no additional cost or reduction in service to NYULH. • Provide necessary preventive maintenance on the system during the warranty period. Provide updates to operator workstation and server software, project specific software, graphic software, database software and firmware that resolve software deficiencies at no charge during warranty period. • During the warranty period, BATC Contractor shall test the system under varying seasonal conditions to ensure that all operational sequences, as specified, are performed correctly. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 471 2023 o This shall include at least three additional visits after initial NYULH Facility Management Team acceptance. Where necessary, BATC Contractor shall make programming adjustments and instrument calibrations at no expense to NYULH. • At the end of the warranty period update “as built” documentation to reflect any modifications made during the warranty period. • Uncompleted Work Period: At the end of the warranty period, a five year uncompleted work period shall begin. The uncompleted work period shall be used to determine if the BATC Contractor has completed the entire scope of work as required for the project. If work has been found to be incomplete or never installed, as determined by the NYULH Facility Management Team, the BATC Contractor shall be responsible for completing the work at no additional cost to NYULH. ix.x. User Access Levels Follow NYULH Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. There shall be ten standard access levels. Assignment of an access level to a user shall be determined by the NYULH Facility Management Team. Coordinate with the NYULH Facility Management Team for access level assignments. Any variations to access level functionality shall be brought to the attention of the NYULH Facility Management Team for verification. • Access Level No. 1: Account Login with No Privileges (Note: This access level opens BACnet communication port for third party companies, such as Utilivisor, to be continuously logged in for data extraction and collection). • Access Level No. 2: View only (e.g., nurses are allowed to view space conditions). • Access Level No. 3: Access Level No. 2 plus trend and alarm viewing. • Access Level No. 4: Access Level No. 3 plus trend/alarm creation and modifications of set points, start/stop commands, etc. • Access Level No. 5: Access Level No. 4 plus edit/create display privileges (i.e., graphics). • Access Level No. 6: Access Level No. 5 plus device manager viewing. • Access Level No. 7: Access Level No. 6 plus DDC software program read only privilege. • Access Level No. 8: Access Level No. 7 plus priority array point override privilege (Note: This requires highest security level privilege set, but does not necessarily grant all privileges.) • Access Level No. 9: Access Level No. 8 plus complete privilege set (e.g., ability to modify device manager table [add/remove controllers], modify/upload DDC software programs, trend/alarm handler creation). • Access Level No. 10: Access Level No. 9 plus user account modifications/creations. • Username and Password Each user should be assigned a specific username and password for the purposes of activity tracking. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 472 2023 x.xi. Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTUcommunication: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White C. Locations i. NYULH Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Automated Logic Corporation: Kimmel Pavilion and Science Building only. b. Alerton Controls (Skyline)Schneider Electric c. Laboratory Control Solutions: Kimmel Pavilion; Medical Science Building; Science Building; Smilow Research Center; Tisch Hospital, Skirball i. Flow tracking applications only i.ii. Fume hood applications ii. NYULH Long Island The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Tridium Niagara iii. NYULH Brooklyn The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Trane Tracer ii. NYULH LOH The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. C&S Building Services NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 473 2023 iii. NYULH Real Estate & Housing For sites that have an NYULH managed BMS on premises, confirm in writing with the NYULH Real Estate group that the existing BMS network is sufficient and not obsolete. For sites that do not have an NYULH managed BMS on premises the following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Schneider b. ALC The following locations shall utilize the site specific existing BMS manufacturer for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. 111 Broadway b. 120 Mineola Blvd c. 1300 Franklin Ave. (Sleep Center) d. 135 E 31st St e. 141 E 33rd St (Breast Imaging) f. 150 160 E 32nd St g. 150 Amsterdam Ave h. 1530 Front St i. 160 E 34th St (PCC) j. 171 Delancey St (Essex Crossing) k. 180 Madison Ave l. 1999 Marcus Ave, 3rd Fl m. 212 Jericho Tpke n. 215 54th St, Brooklyn o. 221 Lexington p. 222 E 41st St q. 222 Station Plaza, Suite 104 r. 227 E 30th St (Translational Research Building) s. 240 E 38th St t. 2857 W 8th St, Brooklyn u. 303 E 33rd St (Kibel) v. 305 2nd Ave (Rutherford Suites 12, 15 and 16) w. 323 E 29th St x. 324 E 23rd St y. 341 E 25th St (OPH) z. 430 450 E 29th St (ACLS) aa. 462 First Ave (Bellevue Simulation Center) bb. 514 49th St cc. 555 Madison Ave, 2nd Fl dd. 555 Madison Ave, 3rd Fl ee. 5610 2nd Ave, Brooklyn ff. 5718 2nd Ave, Brooklyn gg. 5801 3rd Ave hh. 6740 4th Ave, Brooklyn NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 474 2023 ii. 777 Zeckendorf Blvd jj. 789 Park Ave, Huntington kk. 882 Third Ave, Brooklyn (Industry City) ll. 902 Quentin Blvd mm. 97 77 Queens Blvd nn. One Park Ave D. People The following individuals/groups are named throughout the BAS Standard: • NYULH Project Manager • NYULH Facility Management Team • NYULH Senior Controls Specialists o For the NYULH Long Island campus, the Controls Shop Manager acts in this role • NYULH Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH MCIT • Engineer of Record • Building Automation Temperature Controls (BATC) Contractor These individuals/groups are to produce, approve, be consulted on or be informed of all deliverables as indicated in the Deliverables Approval Matrix. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 475 2023 Deliverables Approval Matrix: Approved BMS Vendors: Reference the NYULH Approved Vendors List for vendors that are authorized to install the site specific BMS manufacturer’s product line. E. Deliverables i. Drawings & Specifications a. Control Signal Line Diagrams The Engineer of Record shall produce one control single line diagram per system type. Each shall consist of the following: • Piping and instrumentation diagram • Hardwire interlocks • All required BAS points, alarms and trends NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 476 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) b. Smart Comfort Program Strategies Energy Saving Strategies: • Engineer of Record shall analyze each individual space and consider its use to develop a strategic energy saving sequence during unoccupied periods. • These areas shall also have a means of placing the system back into an occupied mode • Strategies that shall be considered, but not limited to, are as follows: • Flow Setbacks • Temperature setbacks • Lighting control Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) ii. BAS Submittal • All BAS submittals shall be developed using approved submittals and shop drawings. Design documents as well as non approved submittals and shop drawings are not acceptable for use in BAS submittal development. Submittals for each project, regardless of scope and size, shall consist of the following: • All sub sections of the BAS Submittal that shall be submitted as independent deliverables. o Network Architecture Diagram o Control Valve Schedule o Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations o Schedule of BMS Alarms o BMS System Graphics o Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence o Test Forms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 477 2023 • Compliance document consisting of Specifications 23 0900 and 23 0993 and, at each section, paragraph and subparagraph, identify compliance or non compliance by C (Comply), D (Deviate) or E (Exception). For each D and E item, describe what specific alternative approach has been taken. • Specification sheets for each type of electronic sensors, transmitters, controllers, actuators, relays, switches and miscellaneous control devices. • Schedule and specification sheets for control damper actuators, including material and construction details, duct size, damper size, actuator mounting location and quantity of actuators. Actuator sizing calculations and configuration shall be submitted. Actuators to be selected based on approved sheet metal shop drawings and damper submittals. • DDC controller point list. • Point nomenclature. o Projects which are adding or modifying equipment in an existing NYULH site with an existing BMS, keep reference and point names consistent with the rest of the system. This applies to graphics, program definition, etc. • Control diagrams for each system with a written sequence of operation and control devices identified with instrument tag numbers. Control diagrams to include symbol and abbreviation list. o Sequence of operation shall not be a facsimile of the engineer’s project documentation o Note: For variable air volume air handling systems, control diagrams are to indicate field installed location of end of duct static pressure transmitters. • Panel control layout drawings inclusive of all associated devices such as controllers, power supplies, relays, & terminal blocks.The BMS vendor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers (CB), power supplies (PS), transformers (TX), control relays (CR), terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. Check figure CPL 01 as a reference for the control panel layout. Figure CPL 01A shows the control panel layout if the control panel has an external power source control panel. • Ladder type electrical diagrams for each control system with terminal connections identified by number and location. Include symbol and abbreviation list for electrical control diagrams. • Complete listing and description of program routines resident in direct digital control units. • Schedule of all points trended for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and trend interval. • Riser diagrams for power and communication with locations labeled for all controllers, transformers and other relevant control components. • Panelboard from which power shall be taken, along with total power to be taken from each panelboard. • Interfaces (software and