• Eviction or foreclosure • Frequent moves • Stress, depression and anxiety disorders • Poor self reported health Sunset Spark Sunset Spark is a local non profit technology organization with a focus on equitable access to modern technology education for immigrant families. They partner with several local schools to provide computer science (CS) instruction in the classroom and in out of school time. During the pandemic, Sunset Spark provided weekly tech support to schools and families and guidance to teachers on how to structure communication and online classes to better support the technology usage of immigrant families. At the City level, they are a key partner with the DOE's Computer Science for All initiative, where they write student curricula, lead teacher trainings, and review new computer science and digital fluency standards. 28 • Delayed or diminished access to medications and medical care Poor housing conditions • Structural issues • Allergens like mold, asbestos or pests • Chemical exposures • Leaks or problems with insulation, heating and cooling • Asthma or other respiratory issues • Allergic reactions • Lead poisoning, harm to brain development • Other chemical or carcinogenic exposures • Falls and other injuries due to structural issues Health Research & Educational Trust (2017). Social Determinants of Health Series: Housing and the Role of Hospitals. Homelessness: Addressing the homelessness crisis has emerged as a top priority in New York City. Sheltered homelessness increased in the past decade, with approximately 65,000 individuals—including 22,700 children—sleeping in a municipal homeless shelter each night throughout 2021. Racial disparities persist among this population, with of NYC residents identifying as Black, Latinx, White, Asian American, and other. This population is also rapidly aging; after tripling between 2004 and 2017, researchers identified 17,000 homeless shelter residents ages 50 and older in 2017 and forecast this population to reach 25,000 by 2030. Additional thousands of homeless New Yorkers are unsheltered and sleep on streets, within public transit systems, and other public spaces. Surveying these areas, New York City Department of Homeless Services (NYC DHS) identified 3,857 unsheltered individuals on the night of January 27th, 2020 as part of its annual point in time Homeless Outreach Population Estimate (HOPE). With support of the NYULH Community Service Plan, the Health & Housing Consortium led the Hospital Homeless Count—an independent effort to identify homeless individuals seeking care or shelter in hospitals alongside the 2020 HOPE count—to draw attention to the needs of a population who would otherwise remain hidden from New York City’s official homeless census. Among 30 participating hospitals, the Consortium identified 226 people experiencing homelessness who were spending the night in emergency department (ED) treatment areas, waiting rooms, and other non medical locations such as lobbies and hallways. Among those who responded to additional survey questions, (n=45) reported not having a regular doctor outside of the emergency department, and (n=39) reported 10 or more ED visits within the past year. Recommendations of the Hospital Homeless Count focus on increasing care coordination between hospitals and homeless and social services, as well as investing in collaborative approaches to supportive and affordable housing (Figure 1). Homelessness creates and exacerbates poor physical and mental health conditions, and vice versa. In a NYC DHS 2020 report, the most common self reported medical health issues among adults living in three types of homeless shelters (single adults, adult families, and families with children shelters) at the time of intake/assessment were asthma, hypertension and high blood pressure, diabetes, and other chronic diseases (Table 2). NYC DHS also reported that, among 3,973 children at intake/assessment for families with children shelters, approximately 700 children () lived with at least one chronic medical issue in 2020, with asthma as the leading condition. 29 Depression, anxiety, and bipolar disorder/manic depression were the top three behavioral health conditions identified among DHS sheltered adults. Additionally, 428 individuals reported entering a homeless shelter after having been discharged from a hospital, indicating an urgent need for health care systems to understand the housing status and needs of its patients. As described in Section II.H. below, several of the NYULH CSP initiatives are addressing these issues and, importantly, including people with lived experience of homelessness as full and compensated partners as we develop, implement and assess our work. Lack of Affordable Housing: The lack of affordable housing and the downstream risk of eviction are key drivers of homelessness and disproportionately affect Black and Latinx households. Based on five year estimates between 2015 and 2019, more than of renter households citywide experienced rent burden (spending more than of household income on rent), with more than experiencing severe rent burden (spending more than of their household income on rent). The shares of households experiencing rent burden in Hempstead () and Sunset Park () were significantly greater than the citywide share (Chart 1). The pandemic worsened the City’s already acute housing crisis. According to the National Equity Atlas, approximately 652,000 households were behind on rent in the New York City metro area in 2021, owing $2 billion in debt. Despite efforts such as the eviction moratorium and disbursement of emergency rental assistance, approximately 67,000 eviction notices were filed citywide from March 2020 to January 2022. With the pandemic related loss of employment disproportionately impacting Black and Latinx households, racial inequities in rent burden and risk of eviction have only been exacerbated. With limited access to affordable housing, families “double up” in overcrowded apartments (>1.5 people per room). According to the City Comptroller’s Office, around 290,000 units were overcrowded in 2018, a increase from 2008. Latinx and Asian Americans, who are more likely to live in multigenerational households, disproportionately live in overcrowded units, further increasing their risk of exposure to Figure 1. Hospital Homeless Count 2020 Recommendations ØAllocate resources for homeless services based on the number of people within emergency departments. ØProvide homeless outreach teams with resources to engage homeless patients inside hospitals. ØExpand medical respite services for people in hospital EDs and inpatient beds who cannot be discharged because they have no home. ØInvest in more supportive and affordable housing with appropriate resources for housing providers to support medically vulnerable patients. ØUtilize shared homeless data systems to identify their patients in the shelter system. 30 COVID 19. (See Section I.C. for how the housing affordability crisis affects the neighborhoods where our CSP projects are located.) Poor Housing Conditions: Severe asthma and other respiratory illnesses are often triggered by poor housing quality. Indoor environmental complaints in New York City increased by the past decade, with 7,234 calls made to 311 reporting the presence of asbestos, poor air quality, sewage issues, and mold in the home in 2021. The New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG), which is a partner in the Health and Housing Consortium, estimates that the prevalence of these hazards is likely much higher since patients and frontline workers do not always understand the link between housing conditions and health and because immigrant populations may be fearful of reporting the need for home repairs. Through a community health needs and assets assessment supported by the CSP, Red Hook residents identified home repairs as the number one needed service to improve health and reduce stress. Older and poorly maintained housing are often more in need of significant and ongoing repairs; in Sunset Park, of housing units were built before 1940, compared to the citywide share (). The community based organizations that comprise the Brooklyn Consortium’s Steering Committee (described in Section II.C.8., below) prioritized the need to address poor housing conditions, noting the particular vulnerability of elderly and aging residents. Community Feedback on Housing and Health Needs: In May 2021, we convened an Advisory Committee for the newly formed Health x Housing Lab (see Section II.C. 9., below). The Committee is composed of experts representing community based organizations, hospitals, and other leaders across the City, including individuals with lived experience of homelessness. We asked the Advisory Committee in a Google Jamboard to write on “sticky notes” to share the most pressing 2 3 problems they saw related to health and housing in New York City. Key themes from the full exercise (see below) include: § Housing affordability, access, eligibility and accessibility; § Healthcare quality, access and navigation, and lack of medical respite; § Housing and health silos, lack of communication and coordination; § Criminalization of homelessness and lack of trust, empowerment, autonomy or engagement; and § Lack of city agency coordination. 31 Figure 2. Health x Housing Lab Advisory Committee Jamboard, May 2021 Question: What are the 2 3 most pressing issues that you see at the intersection of health x housing in NYC? 3. Need and Assets: Healthy Eating and Food Security Food insecurity — even marginal food insecurity — is detrimental to health and well being. Food insecurity can lead to poor health status, mental health problems, and poor educational outcomes. It is especially problematic for young children as it can affect development and growth, feeding practices and obesity. Food access barriers are disproportionately experienced by the populations that comprise our Community Service Plan communities: Black, Latinx and Asian Americans; older adults; families with children; those living with chronic disease; those with less education; and those living in high poverty neighborhoods. The barriers are often more severe for undocumented residents, who may be ineligible for food benefits. Access to benefits: Although there are limits on eligibility for SNAP benefits, many people who are eligible do not access them. Approximately one third of individuals eligible for SNAP in Brooklyn and Manhattan did not access benefits, and almost two thirds of eligible Nassau County residents did not access SNAP benefits (, , and , respectively). Fewer than half of the eligible Asian residents in Brooklyn, and Asian and Black residents in Nassau County accessed the SNAP benefits they were entitled to. As discussed below, in addition to providing access to food through food pantries, our programs have focused on connecting people to available benefits. 32 Even before the pandemic, nearly 1 in 10 adults in New York City “often” or “sometimes” did not have enough food to eat. Food insecurity is more common among Latinx (), Black (), and Asian/Pacific Islander () adults compared with White () adults. Similar racial and ethnic disparities in food insecurity were found in Sunset Park and the Lower East Side and Chinatown. Although statistically representative data are not available at the Red Hook community level, citywide, food insecurity was nearly twice as high among adults living in public housing compared with adults living in other types of housing ( versus ). While data specific to the Arab American community are lacking in population based surveys, our community based survey found more than one in three Brooklyn Arab American adults experienced food insecurity. Consistent access to healthy food has been challenging for many residents in our CSP communities. In 2018, Sunset Park was identified by the NYC Food Assistance Collaborative as a high priority community due to the large gap between demand and supply of local emergency food resources and the high population of families in poverty. Access to healthy affordable foods was a top need identified by the Red Hook community in 2018 and continues to be a top concern, exacerbated by geographical isolation. While most neighborhoods in lower Manhattan have the lowest rates of food insecurity in the City, the Lower East Side/Chinatown stands out as a glaring exception with one in three residents experiencing food hardship. During the pandemic, many supermarkets and local food vendors permanently closed. The Community District Needs Assessment notes that this, combined with increased unemployment, has contributed to the problem of food insecurity, made more challenging by the dietary needs of the aging population. Food insecurity is also a concern in Hempstead. As highlighted by the Nassau County Comptroller, five census tracts in Hempstead have limited food access, including two that were classified as food deserts based on distance to supermarkets and lack of vehicle availability. Increased food access and healthy food options were also noted as needs in Hempstead community focus groups. The COVID pandemic has increased the economic barriers to food security across New York City and in Nassau County. Consistently during the first year of the pandemic (April 2020 March 2021), about of NYC adults were unable to buy groceries due to lack of money and about of NYC adults reported that price increases impacted their ability to get the food they need. Throughout this period, Latinx and Asian adults were more likely than White adults to report reduced income as a barrier to getting the food they needed. Households with children have been particularly vulnerable. Feeding America estimates that food insecurity for children has increased from to in Brooklyn, to in Manhattan, and to in Nassau County. Local screening and on the ground accounts suggest even higher rates of food insecurity within our communities. For example, half of all parents with young children screened for social needs in Family Health Centers’ pediatric practices in 2021 reported running out of food or worrying about running out of food. A survey of a sample of families in Sunset Park in the late spring 2020 found that Spanish speaking parents were 5 times more likely than English speaking parents to be worried about not having enough food ( vs. ). The Family Health Center’s emergency food pantry (The Table) saw an over increase in the number of families served during the pandemic. The Red Hook Farm an urban farm in Red Hook Brooklyn, run by Red Hook Initiative increased the number of food boxes it provides from 100 families a week, to almost 500 a week. Members of the Sunset Park Community Coalition (see Section II.C.1.), as well as other local food pantries and social service organizations across all of our communities, have reported a similar increase in usage, resulting in longer waiting lists. During this time, many organizations were forced to close their offices or changed their service practices and there was no 33 centralized means to stay updated on changes or new benefits and programs that arose in response to COVID 19. Healthy Eating: Obesity continues to be epidemic: more than half of adult New Yorkers are overweight () or obese (). Data show that obesity begins early in life: One out of five NYC public school children in grades K 8 is obese and one out of four Hempstead public school students in grades K 12 is obese. of Family Health Centers’ pediatric population (ages 3 to 17 years old) was overweight or obese in 2019. Childhood obesity is also common among patients cared for at the Hempstead pediatric practice. Children who are overweight or obese are at risk for hypertension, elevated lipid levels and diabetes referred to as “adult onset” prior to the obesity epidemic. These risks escalate as obese children become adults, when they also become at risk for heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and cancer. Disadvantaged urban communities are disproportionately affected by obesity, in part due to lack of neighborhood resources, such as the availability of healthy food and safe places for physical activity. In New York City, as in the rest of the country, there are clear income and racial disparities with regard to obesity. Obesity prevalence is more than 1.5 times as high among adults who live in very high poverty neighborhoods compared with adults who live in low poverty neighborhoods ( vs. ). Obesity continues to be a concern among community residents and leaders in Chinatown, the Lower East Side and Sunset Park, and was identified as a concern by the Brooklyn Arab American community. Similarly, obesity is a concern in Hempstead, where about of adults are obese, compared with in Nassau County. Perhaps because of the high rates of obesity, rates of high blood pressure and diabetes in Hempstead are also higher than in the Nassau County. (See Section I.C.5.) In Chinatown and the Lower East Side, obesity rates are lower than City rates, and Sunset Park obesity rates are similar to citywide rates. Yet, these rates are still concerning and children in both communities remain vulnerable. In all of our communities, residents have expressed concern about diabetes, driven by food insecurity, the need for additional recreational space, and cultural approaches to healthy eating. Obesity prevention beginning in early childhood is important as a way to affect the health trajectory typically seen for immigrants, where each subsequent generation is at increased risk of obesity and the Obesity related disparities: § Obesity rates are higher among adult Black () and Latinx () New Yorkers compared with White adults (). § The prevalence of overweight and obesity among NYC public high school students varies by race and ethnicity: Latinx students (), Black students (), Asian students () and White students (). § Given emerging evidence that Asian populations are more vulnerable to insulin resistance at lower weights, preventing obesity is a high priority. The American Diabetes Association recommends screening Asian Americans for diabetes at a lower BMI threshold of 23 kg/m2 compared to 25 kg/m2 among the general population. § The rates of overweight and obesity are lower among Asian Americans overall (), masking differences among groups; rates of overweight and obesity are higher among Asian Indian adults () than Chinese adults (). Considering that a significant portion of South Asians live in poverty, have limited English proficiency, and lack of access to culturally appropriate community resources, culturally tailored and effective interventions to prevent obesity and diabetes among South Asian Americans are sorely needed. 34 development of diabetes. There is substantial evidence that the roots of obesity are established in early childhood and that effective obesity prevention efforts need to target families and children early in life. Children already overweight by ages 3 to 7 are at much greater risk of becoming overweight adults. Section II.C. describes the programs we have developed to address these needs. 4. Needs and Assets: Tobacco Prevention and Cessation New York City has achieved remarkable reductions in smoking prevalence, from 21. in 2002 to 10. in 2020. But the rates of reduction across populations have been uneven, and income related, gender, and racial and ethnic disparities persist. Despite the high cost of cigarettes, the smoking prevalence among low income (< Federal Poverty Level) New Yorkers is , nearly twice that of higher income (≥ Federal Poverty Level) New Yorkers (). As noted in a recent NYC DOHMH report, Health of Asian and Pacific Islanders in New York City, smoking rates are nearly six times higher among Asian/Pacific Islander men than women. In 2020, of Asian Pacific Islander men smoked, virtually unchanged from the rate in 2002 (). In addition, Asian New Yorkers who smoke are significantly less likely to have used nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) (1 in 10) than those identifying with any other race or ethnicity. The NYC DOHMH now recognizes smoking among Asian American men as a health disparity. As described below, the CSP Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative has been working in partnership with the DOHMH to understand this disparity and to help develop strategies to address it. As part of this effort, we conducted 50 in depth interviews and surveyed 49 Chinese American smokers. We sought to understand their quitting experience and challenges, perceptions about the existing smoking cessation services, barriers to accessing and using these services, and perspectives about what might assist them in quitting. The following summarizes our findings about these needs and assets: ® Low quit intention Most of the Chinese American smokers we interviewed were in pre contemplation stage (not planning to quit within the next 6 months). Although they were familiar with the generic health warning that smoking is harmful, most were uncertain about the exact harms of smoking and benefits of quitting. A common misconception was that quitting smoking would endanger smokers’ health, particularly for those who have smoked for years. Smoking was also described as a relatively benign way to relieve anxiety and loneliness, better than drinking or gambling. Some were not interested in quitting due to previous unsuccessful quit attempts. Quotes from participants: “Cigarette is not like drugs such as heroin that causes tremendous harms to health... If you smoke for a decade or two, or even thirty or forty years, you will get lung cancer. But it doesn't make other damages to your body. Smoking may make you skin age faster, but that's a slow process. Nobody cares...I don't plan to quit because there are no immediate harms of smoking.” “Mao Zedong suffered from health issues after he quit smoking, so did Deng Xiaoping. These great men both had health problems after quitting.” 35 Saving money was not a key factor in motivating smokers to quit. Light smokers noted that the cost of smoking is only a small portion of their daily expenses. Heavy smokers reported that they have access to cheaper cigarettes (e.g., through friends who bring cigarettes from China or on the black market). ® Challenges to smoking cessation Social norms, which include smoking when spending time with friends or co workers, and offering and receiving cigarettes, pose a major challenge for quitting. Many use smoking as a way to take a break from stressful and busy jobs. ® Access barriers to available smoking cessation services Many do not know that smoking cessation services and quitlines are available. Some expressed skepticism about treatment efficacy, including NRT; many smokers believe that willpower is the only way to quit. Many of the participants reported having long working hours, which hampers them from using smoking cessation services including quitlines and in person cessation programs. Not surprisingly, in Chinatown and the Lower East Side and Sunset Park, communities with large Asian American populations, smoking continues to be a top health concern among our community partners. Similarly, smoking is a concern in Hempstead, Long Island, where rates are higher than in New York City and in Nassau County as a whole: of Hempstead adults smoke, compared with in Nassau County. NYC adults living in public housing are more likely to smoke than adults living in other types of housing ( vs ). With the implementation of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s new smoke free public housing policy, there is a growing demand for information and access to services to help support public housing residents quit or reduce their dependence on tobacco. Given the large public housing developments in Red Hook and on the Lower East Side, community partners are interested in building their capacity to meet this need. The portfolio of CSP projects that address these issues is described in Section II.C.4., below. 5. Needs and Assets: Reducing Disparities in Maternal and Child Health Outcomes and Supporting Children’s Social Emotional Development A fundamental concern for the low income communities that comprise our Community Service Plan is maternal/child exposure to adversity. In New York State, of children experience two or more adverse childhood events (ACE), defined as traumatic experiences occurring before the age of 18, such as poverty, parental mental illness, parental substance abuse, neglect or abuse, exposure to domestic violence, and other traumas. Quotes from participants: “Some of my coworkers smoke. I offer them cigarettes and they also offer me cigarettes. We smoke together. That makes it easier for us to get along.” “I don’t see the possibility to quit because my job [at a restaurant] requires high intensity labor…We have no breaks because the boss doesn’t allow it. I have the excuse because I smoke so I can take a short break. If I quit, I would have no excuse. So I’m not going to quit unless I change the job.” 36 Existing sources of population based data on children’s health and development are limited in geographic and racial/ethnic scope. To obtain data specific to young children in Sunset Park, NYULH worked with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and Abt Associates to conduct an oversample of Sunset Park children ages 1 to 4 years as part of the KIDS 2019 survey. Results from this survey further highlighted the need for enhanced supports for children’s social emotional well being. Young children in Sunset Park were more likely than other NYC children to have a parent concerned about their emotional or behavioral development ( vs ), and children 3 to 4 years in Sunset Park were twice as likely as other NYC children to be at risk for social emotional health issues ( vs ). Reflecting the multi cultural diversity of the community, most young children aged 1 to 4 years in Sunset Park () have an immigrant parent and fewer speak English at home compared with other young children in NYC ( vs. ). This underscores the importance of having culturally adapted and linguistically appropriate programs to support families and early childhood development. We have also spoken to families and other community stakeholders in Chinatown, the Lower East Side, Sunset Park, Red Hook, and Hempstead about their needs, assets and priorities. In all of these communities, we have heard how the stress resulting from poverty, exacerbated by the COVID 19 pandemic, together with the amplification of anti immigrant rhetoric and the impact of violence and racism, have combined to heighten concern about maternal/child health and well being. For example, teachers and social workers we interviewed described the many challenges faced by families, including limited English language proficiency, lack of technology and Internet access, small and crowded family homes, limited resources, and fear. Many educators expressed the need for more culturally diverse and sensitive books that reflect the lived experiences of their students, noting a desire to address equity, racism, anti Asian violence, and Black Lives Matter in their classrooms. They worried about educational loss among students and anticipated that students would have more separation anxiety and trouble with socialization, sharing, rule following, and independence the following year. Educators provided suggestions for how to help pre K students transition into kindergarten including meeting students and families before the year starts, having open houses and tours of the school, and sending toolkits home to their future students. (See Section II.D. for a description of CSP programs that respond to these needs.) The CSP communities are also concerned about high rates of teen pregnancy. NYC DOHMH Take Care New York 2020 highlights the higher rate of teen pregnancy among low income populations, noting that “[l]ower income girls need access to the same reproductive health education and resources available to higher income girls.” While teen birth rates in NYC have declined across all poverty levels between 2010 and 2019, the disparity between teens living in low poverty and very high poverty neighborhoods has increased. In 2019, the teen birth rate in very high poverty neighborhoods was 5.0 times higher than that of low poverty neighborhoods, compared with 3.9 times higher in 2010. Furthermore, teen birth rates in very high poverty neighborhoods remain high (19.9 per 1,000 compared with 12.3 citywide). Adverse Childhood Events: Children born into poverty are at risk for far reaching negative physical and mental health effects, perpetuating cycles of disadvantage into adulthood. Maternal stressors during the prenatal period increase the risk of pre and postnatal depression, the likelihood of pregnancy complications and adverse birth outcomes. Strong social supports, family structures and community programs can help prevent or ameliorate the impact of ACEs on childhood development and health. 37 While the disparities for Latina and Black teens are narrowing, they are still overrepresented among teen births and remain high compared to non Hispanic White teens. In 2019, the teen birth rate for Latinas was 20.0 per 1,000, 3.7 times higher than that of non Hispanic White teens. Fifty nine percent of all NYC teen births were to Hispanic teens. The teen birth rate among non Hispanic Black teens was 2.5 times higher than White teens (13.3 compared with 5.4 per 1,000). Asian and Pacific Islanders in New York City have the lowest teen birth rate (2.8 per 1,000 compared with the 12.3 citywide rate). Black and Latina teens are also overrepresented in teen pregnancy rates (47.2 and 38.8 per 1,000 respectively, compared with 32.1 citywide). Teen pregnancy and birth rates are notable in Hempstead and Sunset Park. Hempstead has the second highest teen pregnancy rate of all zip codes in Nassau County. The teen pregnancy and teen birth rates are about 5 6 times higher in Hempstead than Nassau County as a whole. In Hempstead, the teen pregnancy rate is 69.1 per 1000 girls ages 15 19 compared with 14.1 in Nassau County, and the teen birthrate is 38.6 compared with 6.4 countywide. Sunset Park has the 12th highest teen birth rate among the 59 community districts in the City, with 19.6 births per 1,000 girls ages 15 19 (compared with 12.3 per 1,000 citywide). Programs that address these issues are described in Section II.D., below. 6. Community Needs Not Addressed and Why Across New York City and within our CSP neighborhoods there are many health needs that are beyond the scope of this plan. Indeed, the New York State Department of Health Prevention Agenda 2019 2024 identifies 20 focus areas under five overarching priority areas. Many health needs and social risks have been highlighted and amplified by the COVID pandemic. Mental health, which has consistently emerged as a top concern in the communities we work with, has become an even more pressing concern as people struggle to cope with the economic, health and social consequences of the pandemic. People experiencing economic resource strain, food insecurity, and poor home conditions have higher incidence of depression and anxiety. Although our Community Service Plan programs do not directly provide mental health services, they are designed to address those underlying causes and consequences of poor mental health. The CSP includes initiatives that screen residents for these and other needs, and directly provides or connects them to services, including support for accessing health insurance and mental health services. Selecting priority areas for NYULH’s Community Service Plan and using resources efficiently and effectively necessitates concentrating on some specific challenges and affording less attention to others. New York City Department of Health advises, “Equity in mental health outcomes can be achieved by addressing social determinants of health through policy, programs, and environmental changes." A 2019 Epi Data Brief noted: New York City adults who experienced one or more material hardships had five times higher incidence of serious psychological distress than adults who did not experience material hardships ( compared with ). Those who did not have enough money for food had six times higher incidence ( compared with ) and those who experienced environmental stressors at home (such as no heat, mold, or pests) had about two times higher incidence (11 compared with ). 38 Many of the needs that are not addressed directly by the CSP are being served by existing NYULH program, valuable community organizations, and other health care providers in the community. Over the duration of the CSP, we will continue to coordinate our efforts with community organizations so that we maintain a comprehensive and up to date understanding of community needs and resources, enabling us to maximize our collective impact to improve the communities’ health. 7. Information Gaps that Limit NYULH’s Ability to Assess Communities’ Health Needs The NYC DOHMH provides a wide array of invaluable data about the health of the City and its neighborhoods. But the diversity within Manhattan Community District 3 (the Lower East Side/Chinatown) and Sunset Park and Red Hook economically and in terms of race and ethnicity necessitates that we supplement these data with a more granular, on the ground approach to understanding community needs and assets. Similarly, data are sparce about the needs and assets of subpopulations. To truly understand community needs, assets and priorities, we are in a continual cycle of engagement and assessment, as questions arise and new priorities emerge. Assessment methodologies have included: surveys (see Section I.C.2., which describes the survey of the Arab American community in Brooklyn); secondary data analysis suppplemented by focus groups and community meetings (see Section I.C.5., which describes the needs and assets assessment in Hempstead, Long Island.); and utilization of program data to understand more about community needs and barriers to care. Our engagement with community partners and meetings with community residents and organizations have helped us identify gaps and have deepened our understanding of community needs and priorities. 8. Existing Assets, Facilities, and Resources Reviewing existing assets, facilities and resources is a critical step in our iterative assessment process (which we call a CHNAA Community Needs and Assets Assessment), as well as our strategy development and implementation processes. We draw from residents, partners, and inventories (such as Greater New York Hospital Association Health Information Tool for Empowerment (HITE) http://www.hitesite.org/, and NYC Facilities Explorer, https://capitalplanning.nyc.gov/facilities) to identify existing resources, gaps in services, and potential partners to advance our goals. Our assessment includes reviewing barriers and facilitators to accessing services, such as language, culture, cost, transportation, and ages served. In each of the CSP communities, there are strong community based organizations that address a wide range of the social determinants of health. Many of these are partners in our work (see Appendix B) and serve on program advisory committees or our CSP Coordinating Council. In addition, we collaborate with other health care Hempstead use of the Hite Site: In Hempstead, the CHNAA planning group identified open questions about the availability of services generally and for specific population groups (e.g., undocumented residents, Spanish speakers, children). Using the HITE site, the group created an inventory of housing related resources, immigrant support services, mental and physical health services, education and employment resources, financial assistance, food assistance, youth and family services, and social support services. In addition to their collective knowledge, this now serves as a resource that will be used in their ongoing work. 39 providers: hospitals across New York City participate in convenings and workshops offered by our Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium; numerous health care providers have attended events and trainings offered by the Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center. The Nassau University Family Health Center is a member of the Hempstead CHNAA planning group. An overarching finding of our resource and asset assessment is that essential service providers are universally seeking opportunities for shared information, coordination and cohesion. The COVID pandemic has even further illuminated complex, interconnected needs. Responsive strategies that “treat the whole person” require collaboration. Similarly, residents need support in navigating these resources and systems. Many of our projects are designed to provide this connective tissue, for example, through Community Health Worker strategies, network development, and cross sector learning and problem solving. II. Community Service Plan / Implementation Strategy Building on the clinical and scientific expertise and capabilities of NYU Langone Hospitals and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, NYULH’s three year Community Service Plan takes a family centered, multi sector and holistic approach to improving health in Manhattan’s Lower East Side and Chinatown (Manhattan Community District 3), the Sunset Park and Red Hook neighborhoods of Brooklyn, and Hempstead in Nassau County. A. New York State and New York City Public Health Priorities Aligning with New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City public health priorities, the Community Service Plan focuses on Preventing Chronic Diseases; Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children; and Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment. Each of our Community Service Plan programs is supported by a strong evidence base. Please see Appendix D for a description of the evidence for each initiative, together with relevant citations. B. Addressing Health Disparities Each of the programs addresses a health disparity: unstable housing for low income and minoritized populations; the high risk for food insecurity and obesity among immigrant and low income populations; high risks of hypertension and barriers to care for South Asian populations; high rates of smoking among Asian American and immigrant men; high rates of teen pregnancy and risk for sexually transmitted disease among low income youth; increased risk of maternal depression and child development delays among families who experience the stresses of poverty; and risk of inactivity and falls for the elderly. The programs span multiple sectors, including community based early childhood education settings and schools; primary care; housing; and community settings, including faith based organizations and social service providers. In the sections that follow, we briefly describe our programs, our progress to date, and our goals under the 2022 2024 Plan. 40 See Appendix E for a table that summarizes project components, together with anticipated impact and performance measures. See Appendix D for a description of the evidence base for each program. C. Programs, Progress and Plans: Preventing Chronic Diseases 1. Healthy Food Initiative The Healthy Food Initiative is an evidence informed intervention that aims to increase food security in Sunset Park, Brooklyn and surrounding communities by distributing emergency food through our food pantry and by assisting community members in accessing benefits and resources to reduce economic strain. In addition to decreasing food insecurity, the initiative also supports the consumption of healthy food by providing information about nutrition and enrolling people in programs that incentivize the purchase of healthy foods, such as New York City’s Health Bucks and Get the Good