Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Designated Record Set Policy Patients have the right to inspect, amend, and obtain copies of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) that is contained within a Designated Record Set. The Designated Record Set includes medical and billing records, and other records that are used in whole or in part by or for NYU Langone Health to make decisions about individuals. This includes records that are used to make decisions about any individuals, whether or not the records have been used to make a decision about the particular individual requesting access. This includes both paper and electronic records and systems. Records that otherwise meet the Designated Record Set definition but are held by a NYU Langone Health Business Associate are also part of the Designated Record Set. Information in a Designated Record Set will be retained according to state and federal laws and regulations and in accordance with NYU Langone Health’ s Records Retention Policies. Workforce Members must pay particular attention to those records that are not included in the Designated Record Set and which are not available for patient inspection and amendment. Any questions regarding requests for those types of records should be referred to the Privacy Officer or the Office of General Counsel. Examples of Records included in the Designated Record Set • Inpatient and Outpatient records • Day Surgery records • Emergency Department records • X rays, Imagining and Radiology reports, films, digital copies of films • Pathology reports and slides • History and Physical examinations and reports • Orders • Progress notes • Procedure and Operative reports • Vital signs • Psychiatric Assessments and Evaluations • Laboratory reports Page 2 of 3 • Consultation reports • Psychosocial history reports • Photographs or videos • Authorizations and consents, including research consents related to health care treatment decisions • Billing records • Remittance advice • Case management records • Other records that are used to make health care decisions about the patient (e.g., other diagnostic tests and results; interpretive reports, telephone encounters) Note on External Records External records are those records which were not created by or originated at NYU Langone Health. For example, records (notes, reports) patients bring from a non NYU Langone Health physician. If external records are used to make health care decisions about a patient, then those records are part of the Designated Record Set. Examples of Records not included in the Designated Record Set The following are not part of the Designated Record set even if they include PHI because they are not used to make health care decisions about a patient. A patient does not have a right to access these records for any purpose. • Quality assessment records • Credentialing records • Peer review files • Incident report (e.g., reports regarding devices) • Internal Grievance reports • Information contained in employee records • Information contained in the servers of a health information exchange in which NYU Langone Health participates that has not been integrated into a Designated Record Set • Financial reports used for health care operations (e.g., inventory control or purchasing activities) • Coding queries • Internal compliance reports, audits, and logs • Administrative records • Attorney client privileged records, or any other record that is subject to privilege under state and/or federal laws and regulations • Public health records and statistical data • Temporary notes or worksheets • Laboratory results from a test performed at a laboratory not certified to perform such test(s) under the Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program (CLEP) or the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) • Any other record that is not used to make health care decisions about the patient Page 3 of 3 Research Records Research records that are not used or are not available (to the treating provider) to make health care decisions about a patient are not part of the Designated Record Set. Records contained in an electronic medical record will be presumed to be available for use in making decisions about a patient, and therefore included in the Designated Record Set. Records that are maintained by but separate from other NYU Langone Health records which are not generally accessible by Workforce Members for purposes unrelated to Research, are not part of the Designated Record Set. Some records are considered for Treatment and Research, such as documentation related to a clinical procedure or other service, even if the activity was undertaken for Research purposes only, and therefore are part of the Designated Record Set. During the course of a Research study, the right to access Research records otherwise contained in the Designated Record Set may be suspended provided the patient agrees to such restriction (at NYU Langone Health, this is included in the standard Research Informed Consent document for the specific study). The right of access is reinstated upon the completion of the Research study. Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Records Management Policy Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Right to Request an Amendment Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.501 45 C.F.R. §164.524(a) 45 C.F.R. §164.526(a) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Disclosures of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax Policy NYU Langone Health will ensure that Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) by telephone, fax, or email are relayed in a confidential and secure manner and are restricted to the minimum necessary to achieve the business purpose. Disclosures of PHI by telephone, fax, or email will only be made: • to carry out Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, • to an authorized person or entity, such as the patient or patient’s designated Personal Representative, and • in accordance with the minimum necessary standard protocols and safeguards. Workforce Members: • caring for patients must be aware of any documented restrictions (e.g., requests for confidential communications) on the release of patient information. • must verify the identity and authority of the individual requesting PHI. o Use professional judgment and act in the patient’s best interest if a concern about the requestor’s identity exists. • should encourage patients to identify those individuals who are permitted to receive information regarding his/her condition. This should be documented in the patient’s medical record. • must not disclose PHI without first confirming that it does not contain sensitive PHI (e.g. reproductive health information, HIV related information, alcohol and substance abuse information, genetic information). If the PHI to be disclosed includes sensitive information then workforce members are obligated to review and comply with the Sensitive PHI policy requirements in advance of any disclosure. Procedure After verifying the identity and authority of the recipient, follow the applicable procedures below to ensure the security of PHI. Telephone Disclosures Page 2 of 3 1. Verify a caller’s identity via confirmation of at least two (2) patient identifiers, notes regarding sharing information in the patient’s medical record, or via call backs or exchange of information. 2. Request to speak directly with the patient. In the case of a language barrier, ask a third party to obtain oral permission from the patient. Document the patient’s oral consent in the medical record, including the name of the third party and the content of the message. 3. Messages left on answering machines should be limited to the caller’s first name, where they are calling from, who they are calling for, and a number to return the call. • Appointment reminders and confirmation of prescription refills may be left on a patient’s answering machine, but only state the minimum amount of information necessary to achieve the purpose of the call (e.g., stating that a prescription is ready, but not what the prescription is for). Email Disclosures 1. Always double check the email recipient prior to sending PHI. Limit the recipient list to the minimum necessary. 2. Always use SendSafe secure email when emailing PHI outside of the NYU Langone Health firewall (i.e., to non @nyulangone.org or @med.nyu.edu accounts). Type [safe], including the square brackets, anywhere in the subject line of the email to send the message securely. 3. NYU Langone Health prefers to communicate with patients electronically via MyChart messaging and not via email when possible. If a patient specifically asks to communicate via email or initiates communication via email, SendSafe secure email must always be used. Exceptions may be made with respect to providing medical records to a patient at his/her request in accordance with the Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy; the Privacy Officer must be consulted for these requests or other requests to communicate patient information via unencrypted email. Email should never be used to communicate urgent patient care matters. Fax Disclosures 1. Always use the NYU Langone Health fax cover sheet when sending PHI by fax. • The cover sheet includes a confidentiality statement instructing anyone who receives the fax in error to destroy the fax and contact the sender or the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management. • Do not include any PHI on the cover sheet. 2. If possible, do not fax highly sensitive PHI, such as PHI about a patient’s drug or alcohol treatment, mental illness, sexually transmitted diseases, or HIV/AIDS status. If it is necessary to fax highly sensitive PHI, notify the recipient when sending the fax so that they can retrieve the fax when it arrives. Page 3 of 3 3. Always double check the fax number prior to sending. Review fax confirmations to validate faxing of the information to the intended recipient. 4. Routinely monitor fax machines to ensure any incoming fax containing PHI is not left on the machine for an extended period of time. Related Documents General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions NYU Langone Health Fax Cover Sheet for PHI Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Safeguarding PHI Send Safe Secure Email (http://central.nyumc.org/shared/legal/compliance/Pages/sendsafe.aspx) Verification of Identity and Authority Prior to Disclosure of PHI Sensitive PHI This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends Policy NYU Langone Health will only Disclose Protected Health Information (“PHI”) to family or friends in accordance with HIPAA and the HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. When a family member or friend is designated as a patient’s Personal Representative, the Providing PHI to Personal Representatives Policy will guide how NYU Langone Health Discloses PHI. NYU Langone Health generally will not Disclose PHI to family or friends unless the patient has agreed to such Disclosures, except in limited circumstances (for example, for notification purposes as described in Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted By Law Policy). The patient must be provided an opportunity to agree or object to the Disclosure. If an opportunity to agree or object cannot reasonably be provided (e.g., in the case of a medical emergency), NYU Langone Health will Disclose a patient’s PHI if, in exercising professional judgment, Disclosure is in the best interest of the patient. If a patient objects to the Disclosure of their PHI to anyone specifically authorized to receive PHI, the objection must be clearly documented in the patient’s medical record. Procedure 1. Workforce Members should respectfully ask the patient if discussing the patient’s treatment, diagnosis, or medical history in front of family or friends is acceptable. Workforce Members may discuss the patient’s care with the patient, in the presence of friends or family, if the patient either agrees or does not object. 2. If the patient objects to the Disclosure of their PHI to family or friends, Workforce Members will respectfully ask those individuals to leave the room before discussing the patient’s information, including their treatment, diagnosis, or medical history. 3. If the patient objects (and the individual is otherwise specifically authorized to receive PHI) or requests additional restrictions, the following will be documented in the medical record: • what information the patient objected to sharing, • the name and relationship of the person(s) that the patient objected to sharing information with, and Page 2 of 2 • the date and reason (if provided) of the objection. 4. If the patient is not present, is incapacitated, or is in an emergency situation, Workforce Members may Disclose the minimum necessary PHI with family or friends involved in the patient’s care if: • the patient has not previously objected to the disclosure as noted in the patient’s medical record, and • the Workforce Member determines, in the exercise of professional judgment, that the Disclosure is in the best interest of the patient. 5. Workforce Members may release filled prescriptions, medical supplies, or other similar forms of PHI to a person involved in the patient’s care if the patient has authorized such release or if, in the exercise of professional judgment, the Workforce Member reasonably believes it is in the best interest of the patient. 6. Workforce Members shall not Disclose sensitive PHI to friends or family without written consent from the patient or other required documentation.Sensitive PHI includes: • Confidential HIV related information, • mental health information, • alcohol or substance abuse information, and • genetic information, • reproductive health information. 7. Disclosures made in accordance with this Policy are generally not required to be part of an accounting (see Accounting for Disclosures of PHI Policy). Related Documents Accounting for Disclosures of PHI General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Providing PHI to Personal Representatives Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.510(b) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Dysphagia in NTM Matina Balou, PhD, CCC SLP,BCS S Assistant Professor Department of Otolaryngology Department of Rehabilitation Medicine What is Dysphagia? •The term dysphagia refers to any difficulty moving food from the mouth to stomach. • It is a symptom of disease. •All age groups. •As a result of congenital abnormalities, structural damage and/or medical conditions. 2 Statistics… • Patients with respiratory disorders will often exhibit disorders of swallowing: • In a study of 78 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, it was observed that of them had some degree of dysphagia. Good Fratturelli, Curlee, & Holle, 2000 • Five studies reported that at least of patients with COPD showed to have swallowing dysfunction O’Kane & Groher, 2009 3 Pulmonary Disease and Swallow Physiology Relationship between breathing and swallowing: • Anatomical: brainstem • Anatomical: similar structures used for both upper airway maintenance and swallowing • Physiological: swallowing interrupts the cycle of respiration Does disordered respiration lead to disordered swallowing function? 4 Pulmonary Disease and Swallowing • Respiratory rate may increase, altering coordination between the shared functions of the upper aerodigestive tract. • In pulmonary disease, respiratory demand increases. • Each swallow closes the respiratory system for 1‐2 seconds. • As the respiratory rate increases, it may affect swallowing. 5 Dysphagia and Pulmonary Disease • Chronic cough • Chronic bronchitis • Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease • Obstructive sleep apnea • Pneumonia • Lung cancer • Bronchiectasis and NTM???? 6 Signs and Symptoms •Obvious difficulties •Pneumonia and respiratory infections •Weight loss •Patient complaints 7 Does dysphagia matters? •ASPIRATION PNEUMONIA!!!! •Quality of life 8 Normal Anatomy & Physiology 9 Normal Anatomy & Physiology View during Laryngoscopy View during Videofluoroscopy 10 Stages of Swallowing The act of swallowing function is described in 4 phases: • Oral preparatory phase • Oral phase • Pharyngeal phase • Esophageal phase 11 12 13 14 15 16 Respiratory defenses •The most highly recognized neural response involved in airway protection is coughing. •Coughing is a reflex evoked modification of breathing pattern in response to airway irritation. 17 Purposes of Swallow Study • Adequacy of airway protection. • Coordination of respiration and swallowing. • Food/liquid clearance. • Evaluate the impact of compensatory strategies on physiology. • Decide whether swallowing treatment is indicated. 18 Current Research • Swallow studies were analyzed from 98 newly diagnosed patients with NTM. • Two swallows were analyzed per patient (N=980 swallows). • The primary outcome of interest was airway protection. • The proportion of participants with at least one unsafe swallow was 42.. 19 Current Research • Another outcome of interest was pharyngeal food/liquid clearance. • The proportion of subjects with at least one swallow that did not clear from the pharynx was 89.. 20 Treatment Planning The goal of any treatment program is the re establishment of safe oral intake while maintaining adequate hydration and nutrition. What type of nutritional management is necessary? What type of therapy • Compensatory strategies or exercises? • Direct or indirect? 21 Future Research • Future work should explore swallowing physiology in NTM population. • Further work needs to determine the relationship between impaired swallowing safety and NTM progression. 22 Thank you


HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Chapter 1 _______________________________________________________ Policy 1.3: Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Updated 01/2024; Prior Revision Date 06/2021 Responsible HR Department: Employee & Labor Relations 212 404 3787 Policy: Equal employment opportunity is a fundamental principal at NYU Langone Health, where employment is based upon personal abilities and qualifications without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, age, national origin, citizenship status, disability, military or veteran status, height, weight or any other protected class as established by law. Equal employment opportunity applies to all policies and procedures relating to recruitment, hiring, compensation, benefits, termination, training, transfers, promotion, tenure, participation in organization sponsored educational, social and recreational programs, and all other terms and conditions of employment. As a government contractor or subcontractor, it is also the policy of NYU Langone to undertake affirmative action in employment to comply with applicable federal, state or local requirements. NYU Langone is committed to equal opportunity and affirmative action in employment. The Senior Director of Employee & Labor Relations has overall responsibility for monitoring equal opportunity compliance and affirmative action programs and for implementing, administering, and reviewing these programs through senior leadership and Human Resources in their functional areas of responsibility. The Senior Director of Employee & Labor Relations’ responsibilities also include monitoring policies and procedures to ensure non discriminatory practices and investigating all equal employment opportunity/affirmative action complaints. Chairs, Administrators, Department Heads, Directors and Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that all policies and procedures associated with equal opportunity and affirmative action are adhered to by personnel under their supervision. Any employees with questions or concerns about equal employment opportunities in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of a member of Employee & Labor Relations. HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Chapter 1 _______________________________________________________ Key Definitions: Equal Employment Opportunity provides everyone with the same opportunity based on merit and not based on other factors or characteristics. Affirmative Action programs are plans created to increase opportunities in the workplace for underrepresented groups. Step by Step Procedure: To implement these important objectives, NYU Langone: 1. Recruits, hires, trains and promotes all persons without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital or parental status, age, national origin, disability, citizenship status, military or veteran status, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 2. Make employment decisions consistent with NYU Langone’s equal employment opportunity policy. 3. Ensure that all matters relating to employment decisions, including recruiting, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoffs, return from layoffs, sponsored training, education, tuition assistance, and social and recreational programs are administered without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, age, national origin, citizenship status, age, disability, military or veteran status, or any other protected class as established by law. Related Policies • HR Policy 1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity Diversity in the Workplace • HR Policy 1.4 Equal Employment Opportunity for Persons with Disabilities • HR Policy 1.5 Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Policy for Individuals with Disabilities and Covered Veterans • HR Policy 1.6 Self Identification for Individuals with Disabilities and Covered Veterans


Know Your Rights:Workplace Discrimination is Illegal The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces Federal laws that protect you from discrimination in employment. If you believe you’ve been discriminated against at work or in applying for a job, the EEOC may be able to help. Who is Protected? • Employees (current and• Union members andformer), including managersapplicants for membershipand temporary employeesin a union• Job applicantsWhat Organizations are Covered? • Most private employers• State and local governments(as employers)• Educational institutions (asemployers)• Unions• Staffing agenciesWhat Types of Employment Discrimination are Illegal? Under the EEOC’s laws, an employer may not discriminate against you, regardless of your immigration status, on the bases of: • Race• Color• Religion• National origin• Sex (including pregnancyand related conditions,sexual orientation, or genderidentity)• Age (40 and older)• Disability• Genetic information(including employer requestsfor, or purchase, use, ordisclosure of genetic tests,genetic services, or familymedical history)• Retaliation for filinga charge, reasonablyopposing discrimination,or participating in adiscrimination lawsuit,investigation, or proceeding.What Employment Practices can be Challenged as Discriminatory? All aspects of employment, including: • Discharge, firing, or lay off• Harassment (including unwelcome verbal or physical conduct)• Hiring or promotion• Assignment• Pay (unequal wages or compensation)• Failure to provide reasonable accommodation for a disability or a sincerely held religious belief, observance or practice• Benefits• Job training• Classification• Referral• Obtaining or disclosinggenetic information ofemployees• Requesting or disclosingmedical information ofemployees• Conduct that mightreasonably discouragesomeone from opposingdiscrimination, filing acharge, or participating in aninvestigation or proceeding.What can You Do if You Believe Discrimination has Occurred? Contact the EEOC promptly if you suspect discrimination. Do not delay, because there are strict time limits for filing a charge of discrimination (180 or 300 days, depending on where you live/ work). You can reach the EEOC in any of the following ways: Submit an inquiry through the EEOC’s public portal: Call Visit E Mail Additional information about the EEOC, including information about filing a charge of discrimination, is available at www.eeoc.gov. https://publicportal.eeoc.gov/Portal/Login.aspx 1 800 669 4000 (toll free) 1 800 669 6820 (TTY) 1 844 234 5122 (ASL video phone) an EEOC field office (information at www.eeoc.gov/field office) info@eeoc.gov EMPLOYERS HOLDING FEDERAL CONTRACTS OR SUBCONTRACTS The Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) enforces the nondiscrimination and affirmative action commitments of companies doing business with the Federal Government. If you are applying for a job with, or are an employee of, a company with a Federal contract or subcontract, you are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: Race, Color, Religion, Sex, Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, National Origin Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination by Federal contractors based on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin, and requires affirmative action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. Asking About, Disclosing, or Discussing Pay Executive Order 11246, as amended, protects applicants and employees of Federal contractors from discrimination based on inquiring about, disclosing, or discussing their compensation or the compensation of other applicants or employees. Disability Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, protects qualified individuals with disabilities from discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment by Federal contractors. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship to the employer. Section 503 also requires that Federal contractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities at all levels of employment, including the executive level. Protected Veteran Status The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, prohibits employment discrimination against, and requires affirmative action to recruit, employ, and advance in employment, disabled veterans, recently separated veterans (i.e., within three years of discharge or release from active duty), active duty wartime or campaign badge veterans, or Armed Forces service medal veterans. Retaliation Retaliation is prohibited against a person who files a complaint of discrimination, participates in an OFCCP proceeding, or otherwise opposes discrimination by Federal contractors under these Federal laws. Any person who believes a contractor has violated its nondiscrimination or affirmative action obligations under OFCCP’s authorities should contact immediately: The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20210 1 800 397 6251 (toll free) If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, please dial 7 1 1 to access telecommunications relay services. OFCCP may also be contacted by submitting a question online to OFCCP’s Help Desk at https://ofccphelpdesk.dol.gov/s/, or by calling an OFCCP regional or district office, listed in most telephone directories under U.S. Government, Department of Labor and on OFCCP’s “Contact Us” webpage at https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/contact. Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial AssistanceRace, Color, National Origin, Sex In addition to the protections of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in programs or activities receiving Federal finan­cial assistance. Employment discrimination is covered by Title VI if the primary objective of the financial assistance is provision of employment, or where employment discrimination causes or may cause discrimination in providing services under such programs. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits employ­ment discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Individuals with Disabilities Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of disability in any program or activity which receives Federal financial assistance. Discrimination is prohibited in all aspects of employment against persons with disabilities who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution which receives Federal financial assistance, you should immediately contact the Federal agency providing such assistance. (Revised 10/20/2022)


Equal Employment Opportunity is THE LAW Private Employers, State and Local Governments, Educational Institutions, Employment Agencies and Labor Organizations Applicants to and employees of most private employers, state and local governments, educational institutions, employment agencies and labor organizations are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGIN Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, protects applicants and employees from discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), or national origin. Religious discrimination includes failing to reasonably accommodate an employee’s religious practices where the accommodation does not impose undue hardship. DISABILITY Title I and Title V of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, protect qualified individuals from discrimination on the basis of disability in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship. AGE The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, protects applicants and employees 40 years of age or older from discrimination based on age in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. SEX (WAGES) In addition to sex discrimination prohibited by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, prohibits sex discrimination in the payment of wages to women and men performing substantially equal work, in jobs that require equal skill, effort, and responsibility, under similar working conditions, in the same establishment. GENETICS Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 protects applicants and employees from discrimination based on genetic information in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. GINA also restricts employers’ acquisition of genetic information and strictly limits disclosure of genetic information. Genetic information includes information about genetic tests of applicants, employees, or their family members; the manifestation of diseases or disorders in family members (family medical history); and requests for or receipt of genetic services by applicants, employees, or their family members. RETALIATION All of these Federal laws prohibit covered entities from retaliating against a person who files a charge of discrimination, participates in a discrimination proceeding, or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice. WHAT TO DO IF YOU BELIEVE DISCRIMINATION HAS OCCURRED There are strict time limits for filing charges of employment discrimination. To preserve the ability of EEOC to act on your behalf and to protect your right to file a private lawsuit, should you ultimately need to, you should contact EEOC promptly when discrimination is suspected: The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), 1 800 669 4000 (toll free) or 1 800 669 6820 (toll free TTY number for individuals with hearing impairments). EEOC field office information is available at www.eeoc.gov or in most telephone directories in the U.S. Government or Federal Government section. Additional information about EEOC, including information about charge filing, is available at www.eeoc.gov. Employers Holding Federal Contracts or Subcontracts Applicants to and employees of companies with a Federal government contract or subcontract are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGIN Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, and requires affirmative action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, protects qualified individuals from discrimination on the basis of disability in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship. Section 503 also requires that Federal contractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities at all levels of employment, including the executive level. DISABLED, RECENTLY SEPARATED, OTHER PROTECTED, AND ARMED FORCES SERVICE MEDAL VETERANS The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, prohibits job discrimination and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment disabled veterans, recently separated veterans (within three years of discharge or release from active duty), other protected veterans (veterans who served during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized), and Armed Forces service medal veterans (veterans who, while on active duty, participated in a U.S. military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded). RETALIATION Retaliation is prohibited against a person who files a complaint of discrimination, participates in an OFCCP proceeding, or otherwise opposes discrimination under these Federal laws. Any person who believes a contractor has violated its nondiscrimination or affirmative action obligations under the authorities above should contact immediately: The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210, 1 800 397 6251 (toll free) or (202) 693 1337 (TTY). OFCCP may also be contacted by e mail at OFCCP Public@dol.gov, or by calling an OFCCP regional or district office, listed in most telephone directories under U.S. Government, Department of Labor. Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance RACE, COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN, SEX INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES In addition to the protections of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in any program or activity which receives discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in programs or Federal financial assistance. Discrimination is prohibited in all aspects of activities receiving Federal financial assistance. Employment discrimination employment against persons with disabilities who, with or without reasonable is covered by Title VI if the primary objective of the financial assistance is accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job. provision of employment, or where employment discrimination causes or may If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any cause discrimination in providing services under such programs. Title IX of the institution which receives Federal financial assistance, you should immediately Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits employment discrimination on the contact the Federal agency providing such assistance. basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. EEOC 9/02 and OFCCP 8/08 Versions Useable With 11/09 Supplement EEOC P/E 1 (Revised 11/09)