by focusing on innovative, multi-centered, and cutting-edge peer-reviewed grants. The education pillar will advance undergraduate and graduate medical training by ensuring that students appreciate and integrate issues related to health equity. The institute will also serve to mentor trainees and faculty regarding professional milestones, thus encouraging and facilitating successful academic careers. The clinical care pillar will adapt NYU Langone Health delivery systems to achieve excellence in health equity outcomes, and the community pillar will advance health equity with a goal of fashioning scalable solutions to the health disparities in the community and across the nation. Sala specialists help patients and families process distressing feelings and learn new coping skills. Soccer is Jake’s favorite sport. The active eight-year-old loves playing on his local team alongside his friends. But when Jake started feeling sick for long periods of time, playing soccer—and many activities he enjoyed—grew harder. Tests done at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital revealed his diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. With this condition, the pancreas doesn’t make enough insulin, a hormone that helps blood sugar enter cells to be used as energy. The resulting high blood sugar can cause blurry vision, numb hands or feet, fatigue, weight loss, and other debilitating symptoms. The chronic, lifelong condition requires permanent adjustments for kids and families alike. Changes like strict diets, insulin injections, and regular finger pricks can cause discomfort and require parents’ round-the-clock help. “Type 1 diabetes is all-encompassing,” explains Becky Lois, PhD, a Sala Institute child and adolescent psychologist. “It creates a massive life shift for the whole family.” Jake quickly became concerned with what diabetes would mean for him. He wanted to know: Would he die early because of his diabetes? Could he still play soccer? “Naturally, many parents and providers want to reassure a child who’s received a new medical diagnosis that they’ll be OK,” Dr. Lois says. “Although Jake’s care team told him it was safe to play soccer, things weren’t sitting right with him. Deep down, he truly didn’t believe he was OK.” Jake’s anxiety played out on the field through panic attacks. That’s when his care team at the Robert I. Grossman, MD, and Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Pediatric Diabetes Center asked integrative behavioral health specialists from Sala Institute to help Jake and his family process his incredibly common yet distressing feelings about his diabetes diagnosis. Identifying Medical Trauma Medical trauma can result from a person’s difficult health experiences. It can stem from a single significant event, such as being rushed to the hospital for a medical emergency, or from many different experiences that accumulate over time, such as frequent hospital appointments or repeated blood draws. Vicarious medical trauma can also occur after witnessing or hearing about what happened to a loved one, friend, or peer. “Medical and vicarious trauma can come on immediately following a diagnosis, or surface only after a child or family member has had time to process their experiences,” explains Bethany Watson, PhD, a child and adolescent psychology fellow in Sala Institute. Signs of medical trauma are diverse and include panic attacks like those Jake had on the soccer field, acting out and testing limits in extreme ways, developmental regression, or certain statements, such as “I can’t sleep” or “I can’t stop thinking about what happened to me.” Compassionate Support Rooted in Research To help children and their families work through medical and vicarious trauma, Sala Institute’s team of psychologists, child life specialists, and social workers receive referrals from clinical teams or through a system of built-in behavioral health screenings across Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. “We’ve created universal touchpoints at the hospital and ambulatory care centers where we know it’s common to find individuals struggling with what we call little-T traumas that accumulate over time, and big-T traumas that can take the form of life-threatening or scary health events,” says Dr. Watson. From there, the road to recovery differs for every child and family member—but it always begins with education about the nature of trauma and helping the person to understand that every feeling is normal when it comes to processing stressful health experiences. “We’ve been helping Jake and his family understand that Jake’s fear is a very appropriate reaction to a diabetes diagnosis,” Dr. Lois explains. “When he expresses distress, his parents’ impulse is to save him from those feelings in the moment. In our sessions together, we’re giving space to listen to and validate Jake’s emotions.” The KiDS of NYU Integrative Behavioral Health team within Sala then helps the child and family make sense of their situation. They often teach new coping skills—for example, offering ways to navigate a panic attack—and help reframe their thinking. “Everything we do focuses on helping them take charge of their situation,” says Dr. Liaw, Director of Sala’s Child-Family Services and Resilience Programs. Sala Institute also provides diverse supports depending on what’s needed, such as nutritionists, creative arts therapists, physical therapists, and education for teachers in how best to support their students’ medical or behavioral needs. “A pillar of trauma-informed care is to teach kids to actively resist re-traumatization,” notes Dr. Watson. “We want to support kids to have affirming medical experiences, so in addition to helping them process past trauma, we proactively work to ensure their future medical experiences will be better.” Mentionable and Manageable Sala Institute’s specialists have helped Jake improve his outlook on life. He and his family are equipped with new coping skills, a deeper understanding of their feelings, and the courage to hold space for Jake’s difficult emotions. His family asked diabetes educators to meet with Jake’s soccer coach and teammates to share how they can help their son. “I always like to say, ‘If it’s mentionable, it’s manageable,’” shares Dr. Watson. “We can’t take the pain or the trauma away; we cannot erase what happened. But we can help them to carry their experiences forward with new skills, agency, and a sense of validation.” We also seek out children who are internalizing their trauma and are quiet about it—not acting out in ways that command attention and prompt intervention, but who are still suffering. Ron-Li Liaw, MD Director of Sala’s Child-Family Services and Resilience Programs Your gift will help children and families receive vital supportive services and resilience programs. Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care provides support services and resilience programs, family partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives that advance the health and well-being of children and families at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Sala designs, promotes, and funds new programs to support children, families, and staff. All programs are created through a proven process that includes: Engaging with children and their families to understand their physical and emotional needs during times of complex or chronic illness Partnering with patients and families to create tools and strategies for addressing those needs Sharing the resources and tools at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital and beyond In collaboration with frontline healthcare providers, patients, and families, Sala Institute leads the following programs and services: Sala Child and Family Support Services and Resilience Programs, including child life, creative arts therapies, integrative behavioral health, integrative medicine, nutrition, pain management, palliative care, social work, and spiritual support Sala Family Partnership Programs, which influence patient experience through our Family Advisory Council, Youth Advisory Council, and Patient and Family Faculty Program Sala Patient Safety and Quality Programs The institute’s vision, research, and education fosters child- and family-centered care, an approach to care that brings together expert medical treatment with emotional care for a child and their family. At Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we believe the best way to care for children is when patients, families, and healthcare professionals work together as a team. This teamwork creates care that is completely customized for the child. With your support, you’ll become part of a community helping to advance the practice of child- and family-centered care. Read the Sala 2022 Impact report to learn more about how your dedication has made a difference and will continue to brighten the lives of children and their families. My time working with the Sala Institute really changed me. I want to do for other kids and families what the people from the Sala Institute did for me. Sara Damour – Member, Sala Youth Advisory Council It’s amazing how much a simple thing like giving kids a toy to entertain them while they’re in the hospital can do for their health. It’s all about helping our patients just be kids again. Frances Clemente Child Life Specialist “I received remarkable, expert cardiac care at NYU Langone that dramatically transformed my quality of life. All delivered… Vanessa J I. Patient Support the Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care Early graduate of NYU Grossman School of Medicine answers a call to serve. In a valley of the Andes Mountains lies Cusco, Peru, where Wi-Fi is spotty and U.S. news limited. As Gabriela Ulloa, MD, conducted qualitative breast cancer research at a clinic there in early 2020, she would get occasional COVID-19 news in the form of phone calls from her mother, who was stateside. “Her updates went from, ‘I don’t think it’s going to end up coming to the U.S.’ to ‘It sounds widely infectious and is hitting China hard,’” Dr. Ulloa recalls. “Eventually, Mom’s calls transformed into panicked updates.” Dr. Gabriela Ulloa was one of 52 students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine who volunteered to put their plans on hold to serve as interns alongside their colleagues at NYU Langone Health. Dr. Ulloa and her husband, Jorge, who had joined her in Peru to explore the region and then visit his family in Bolivia, made it back to New York City just before the borders closed. Soon after, Dr. Ulloa vividly remembers receiving an email from the dean of her school, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, to ask if any students would consider cutting short their final year of med school to work on the front lines. “I was sitting on the couch crying for 40 minutes after I read the email,” Dr. Ulloa explains. “I felt that if you receive an email at 7 pm on a Sunday from your dean offering early graduation, the hospital really needs [you]. I felt the urgency of how much the med school was willing to go through for us because they needed help.” After talking it over with her husband, Dr. Ulloa signed on. “It was a no-brainer for us,” she says. “I saw my friends in their intern year struggling, not having enough [personnel to] allow them normal working hours and conditions. I really commend them. We always have to recognize that they were working very hard before we even got there, which prompted us to be able to volunteer to join them—and hopefully help them.” Dr. Ulloa was assigned to NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, where her first patient’s COVID-19 symptoms had improved considerably and she was being discharged. “She reminded me of my abuela , my great-grandmother,” she recalls. “The patient had a lot of co-morbidities—chronic heart failure, chronic kidney disease. In my very short career as a doctor, I had never discharged somebody who was so scared to go home. We spoke to each other in Spanish. She had a lot of questions about COVID-19 side effects. Would she get sick again? And it was hard to answer any of those questions at that time because so little was known. I just remember feeling lost and very scared for her as well.” Dr. Ulloa’s fluency in Spanish became invaluable, as the Tisch population grew heavily Hispanic during the pandemic surge, which was in contrast to Dr. Ulloa’s past experiences on the internal medicine floors there. “This felt like a completely different population than I was used to at Tisch,” Dr. Ulloa says. “Now, I was using my Spanish every single day. On a personal note, it was tough to see people who looked like my family, who had similar occupations to my family, be really sick and really scared at the same time. But I was happy to be able to speak with them, and hopefully calm their fears a little bit.” In addition to the parallels she felt with her patients, Dr. Ulloa found that her pediatric training served COVID-19 patients and families well. “In pediatrics, you’re constantly dealing with the patient’s family, which is why I love the field,” she says. “You’re used to explaining things in lay terms, and sometimes you need to articulate honestly that you don’t know what a certain symptom means in a way that is not upsetting to the family. I was able to apply these skills to COVID-19 care and help communicate with family members of geriatric patients especially—a population [for whom] it’s normally taken for granted that loved ones will be by the bedside.” The experience has also shed new light on a possible new area for Dr. Ulloa to pursue: pediatric intensive care. She says that working on the COVID-19 floors presented stressors similar to those that intensive care units (ICUs) often experience—and that she thrived in this challenging environment. “Even though it was really, really tough, I felt satisfied in that I was coping,” Dr. Ulloa says. “I could not only tolerate but do well in an ICU setting, where patients and families are typically quite upset. I also felt impassioned speaking to people in Spanish who didn’t understand their diagnoses or what we were doing with their care. Being able to connect like that with the Hispanic population through a difficult medical experience is rare, especially in an ICU setting.” Grateful for the first-rate education he received at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, Dr. Perelman has supported the school’s scholarship fund for 26 years. Seth Perelman, MD, credits NYU Grossman School of Medicine—where he earned his medical degree 26 years ago—for his successful career as an anesthesiologist. Dr. Perelman with his daughter, Allison, at the NYU Grossman School of Medicine White Coat Ceremony “The school really gave me the foundation and skills I needed to be a continual learner of medicine,” says Dr. Perelman. “It was a wonderful education. It was very challenging, but the curriculum was designed in a collegial way, which I think is a perfect way to learn.” Grateful for his time there, Dr. Perelman has contributed to the school’s scholarship fund every year since graduating in 1989, enabling other students to have the same type of experience he did. “I’ve heard stories about some of the current medical students who would not have been able to pursue a medical education, let alone one at NYU, without having tuition assistance. I know the dollars are being used wisely,” he says. He adds, “I’m sure physicians are not the school’s major financial donors. But I think that giving sends a message to the community, about how important institutions like NYU Langone and NYU Grossman School of Medicine are—to New York City and to the future of medicine in the U.S.” Dr. Perelman’s passion for his alma mater appears to be contagious. Following in his footsteps, his daughter, Allison, just began her first year at the school. What advice does Dr. Perelman have for Allison? “I told her to expect the most challenging, albeit enjoyable, educational experience. And that she’ll make the best friends that she’ll ever have in her academic career.” “It’s nice to see that some of the teachers I had are still there,” says Dr. Perelman, “and will be educating my daughter on aspects of medicine that were only touched on 26 years ago. Their longevity shows their love for teaching at NYU—and, I imagine, their good health!” Comprehensive support services from Sala Institute help a family through a five-month NICU stay. Lwam Rafel gave birth to her daughter, Sloane, in November 2019 at NYU Langone. Sloane was born extremely premature at just 25 weeks gestation following a complicated and unexpectedly high-risk pregnancy that required several hospital stays, multiple blood transfusions, and finally, a sudden, emergent delivery. Sloane was born at 25 weeks gestation and spent five months in the NICU at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Sloane and her family received comprehensive supportive services from Sala Institute. Baby Sloane spent five months in the NICU at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, mainly due to her under-developed lungs. She was intubated for three months to help her breath. Lwam and her husband, Jesse, brought Sloane home in April 2020 at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Welcoming the newest member of the family should be a joyous time, but when a serious medical crisis accompanies the birth, the notion of what is “supposed to” transpire is anything but normal. Lwam credits the compassionate NICU team and Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care with helping her family throughout this time. The Sala multidisciplinary team included social workers, child life specialists, and an early childhood psychologist. Their expertise in conjunction with the medical team comprised a holistic approach to support the Rafel family. “Throughout our NICU stay, from social workers to Child Life to the psychologists, we have picked up tools and skills that we also give to our children and use beyond the hospital walls around dealing with challenges including resilience, kindness, and grace,” Lwam explains. Social workers from Sala facilitate communication between families and the medical team, ensuring mutual understanding of medical terminology and the family’s unique needs. Erin Collins, director of Pediatric Social Work, says, “Sala’s impact ensures we provide needed resources and support for families. Social workers meet the family where they are that day in that moment so we can provide a range of support based on their specific needs.” They also connect families to resources that support their transition to home or the next level of care within the medical system, all with the shared goal of alleviating stressors so they can focus on the care for their child. During Sloane’s stay in the NICU, Erin Villani, a pediatric social worker, noted that the Rafels were true partners, always asking questions and learning as much as they could about Sloane’s medical conditions. Lwam knew that skin-to-skin contact, or Kangaroo Care, has proven successful in patient outcomes, including stabilizing the baby’s heart rate and regulating breathing patterns. “Lwam advocated for being able to hold her daughter,” says Villani. “We came together as a team to assess how we could make this happen.” The team taught the Rafels how to work around the equipment so they could physically bond with Sloane. “Lwam was always respectful of our team and a wonderful partner in care. This new approach has enabled other parents to use Kangaroo Care with their infants in the NICU sooner than they might have in the past,” says Villani. Marking Milestones in Little Sister’s Progress For Lwam and Jesse, explaining to big brother Asher, then two years old, that his little sister wasn’t coming home immediately after she was born was daunting. Stacey Schneider, a child life specialist, recommended using a sticker chart so Asher could mark milestones in Sloane’s progress. “Child Life helped me find and create joy and connection when I felt like I was at a constant loss for it,” says Lwam. They also did hand printing projects to compare Asher’s size to his sister’s and provided a picture frame that he decorated so he could share her photo at school and keep it near his bed. “This gives the sibling some ‘proof’ that the baby is part of their family and ‘belongs’ to them as well,” says Schneider. Giving Back to Other Patients and Families As a result of her family’s experiences, Lwam joined the Sala Family Advisory Council. The council meets monthly and is comprised of 35 family members of patients at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Alongside the Sala Youth Advisory Council, the group provides input on new programming and initiatives for current and future children and families at the hospital. Liza Cooper, LMSW, is manager of Family and Youth Partnerships and Resources at Sala Institute and works directly with the council. “Lwam is a changemaker. There are some people who can tell a story about a challenging time in their life that makes you think; when Lwam tells her story, it changes the way you see things,” says Cooper. The Kangaroo Care initiative and the support from Social Work, Child Life and Early Childhood Psychology that families receive are all possible through Sala Institute, which is supported by generous donors. As a parent of a child in the NICU and a Sala Family Advisory Council member, Lwam is grateful to help other families gain confidence and empowerment in their roles as parents and healthcare advocates. She remarks, “Through what we went through, I know I’ve become a better parent. I can speak up for my kids, saying what will work for our family and what won’t, and I can partner better with the medical team to make sure we are working together each and every time to get our kids the best possible care.” Because of Sala, essential services and support are offered in a consistent, well-coordinated manner, in all areas where children receive care. I’ve been a child life specialist for about 13 years now. Child life specialists help children and families cope with the hospital setting, and we do that in various ways, from age-appropriate preparation for surgery or procedures to distraction during procedures to help children refocus their attention. Frances Clemente, MS, CCLS, Child Life Specialist Program Coordinator, Sala Institute We try to normalize their experience while they’re in the hospital or after they have a procedure, to get back to a baseline and help them to just be kids. Play is really important to children—it’s their form of communication. It’s how they express themselves. We just did a teddy bear clinic where the kids got to play doctor. When they take their teddy bears through the procedures of height and weight or getting a checkup, the kids feel more powerful and in control. I conduct trainings throughout Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital with physicians, nurses, medical assistants, and others, to support their skills in communicating and working effectively with children of all ages. I also work with parents, so that they can better help their children cope with procedures and fears they may have. I run a program called Connect the Dots. We provide education and resources to patients, families, and healthcare providers, to facilitate a consistent, developmentally appropriate experience, wherever care is given. I think what’s so beneficial to the design of our programs and to the delivery of care to our patients and families is the involvement of Sala Institute’s Family Advisory Council, Youth Advisory Council, and family advisers. I think getting their opinions on all the projects that we’re working on, and getting their input from the very beginning, is really essential. Two groups raise money to give gift cards to young patients in Long Island. This past holiday season, enthusiastic teens from Teen Project and Charlie’s Champions Foundation joined together to raise $23,000 for teenage patients receiving care at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids–Mineola. Teen Project, which first began in 2014, was founded by teens Steven and Matthew Spirakis, who wanted to empower local teens to give back. The Spirakis brothers have long volunteered and supported the hospital’s annual Swim-a-thon, a Child Life Program fundraiser founded by their pediatrician, Dr. Ron Marino. We learned the hospital often receives toy donations for young patients, but seldom receives appropriate gifts for teen patients. We decided to help by collecting gift cards teens our age preferred to receive and donating them to the hospital. —Spirakis Delaney Zander, Luke Schmitt, T. J. Schmitt, Matthew Spirakis, and Steven Spirakis present a $23,000 check to NYU Langone Health’s Heather Dall’Aste and Nicole Almeida from the online fundraiser by Teen Project and Charlie’s Champions Foundation. The annual fundraiser has raised $80,000 in donations since its inception seven years ago. The success of the campaign is largely due to the early expansion of the Holiday Project. In 2017, the Spirakis brothers partnered with T.J. and Luke Schmitt of Garden City–Charlie’s Champions Foundation, a prominent supporter of the Cancer Center for Kids (CCFK), which provides care to pediatric patients battling cancer and complex blood disorders. The foundation was established by the Schmitt family in honor of Charlie Schmitt, a cancer survivor who was treated at CCFK. “We have been raising money and awareness for Charlie’s Champions Foundation since we were both in middle school and because of what we experienced firsthand with one of our cousins being treated at CCFK. The gift cards were a great idea to show the teenagers that we understood them as peers. Gift cards allow them to shop online just like we enjoy doing,” says T. J. Schmitt. successful fundraiser took place on NYU Langone’s Giving website, which is available to all people or groups looking for a virtual way to support any area of the hospital. In the time of COVID-19, the distance most people have in mind is six feet. But long-distance runner Alex Eisen of Mineola, New York, had his eyes set on a much longer length: 30 miles. To ring in his 30th birthday, Alex knew he wanted to support the frontline clinicians, nurses, and staff of NYU Langone Health and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island.  As a thank you for tireless efforts of the healthcare workers, he would set up an online campaign around the most grueling distance he had ever attempted—30 miles around Mineola and neighboring Port Washington, where he teaches fourth grade. He would make the journey on his birthday. When the pandemic hit, he immediately knew he wanted to help, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island was top of mind. NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island had helped Alex in the past—living with asthma, he needed emergency services at points throughout his life. “It’s near and dear to my heart.” Early on April 21, he set out even as the forecast called for rain (and, oh, it rained; though he narrowly beat the afternoon tornado warnings for Nassau County.). And, with a little help from his in-house camera crew—brother behind the camera, mother behind the wheel—he livestreamed the entire event on Facebook, raising thousands of dollars over the course of the run to help battle the coronavirus. “I’ve been trying to get my friends to join me [on a race]. One of them said he’d do the last .2 if I could handle the first 26” (typical marathons are 26.2 miles). But on the 30-mile run, Alex wasn’t alone; over 150 donors cheered him on with contributions of all sizes. As of this writing, his campaign has raised over $12,000. Additionally, his story was picked up by local news—even further extending his reach. Watch coverage from ABC7 here Post-run, life didn’t take long to get back to (quarantine) normal. Sore and hobbling at 8 am the following day, he returned to his students online: “I basically told them, ‘If I’m going to be there, I expect you to, too.’” And that’s how you teach dedication. Mind–Body Patient Bedside Program The Mind–Body Patient Bedside Program is a unique, evidenced-based, holistic program that has been shown to reduce pain and , lessen the effect of stress on the body, and improve sleep. These healing sessions are performed by professional, licensed healthcare providers and offered free of charge through NYU Langone’s For information about services at , please talk with your nurse or doctor to get a referral or contact our program directly at 212-263-5767 . Integrative health services may include the following therapies. Guided Imagery Guided imagery teaches you how to use all five senses and your imagination to visualize a more relaxed and peaceful state of being. This technique can be used during procedures, treatments, and surgery to help ease anxiety. Hypnosis Hypnosis triggers a deeply relaxed and highly focused state of concentration and attention that helps people cope with the physical and emotional components of pain. Hypnosis has also been shown to ease anxiety before medical procedures and alleviate and symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome , as well as aid in tobacco cessation . We can also teach you methods of self-hypnosis. The ‘M’ Technique The ‘M’ Technique® is a gentle method of structured touch that works on skin receptors to promote relaxation and restful sleep. The ‘M’ Technique® is suitable for the very young, older adults, and critically ill or dying patients. Because the technique is completely choreographed, it is easily taught to caregivers to use with their loved ones. Mindfulness Meditation Mindfulness meditation uses the breath to focus your mind, reduce stress, and control emotions. You learn to become aware of your thoughts and feelings, reducing your reactions to them and heling you become less judgmental. This has been found to assist physical and emotional healing. Meditation is used for a variety of conditions such as anxiety, pain, stress, insomnia, and physical and emotional symptoms that accompany chronic illnesses such as and cancer. Progressive Muscle Relaxation Progressive muscle relaxation is achieved through either a muscle tightening and relaxation exercise, or with focused awareness on each part of the body. Relaxation techniques have been found to help ease a variety of conditions including insomnia, anxiety, and headaches, as well as the symptoms associated with fibromyalgia , irritable bowel syndrome, and heart disease. Reiki Reiki is an ancient, gentle, noninvasive, hands-on technique that facilitates deep relaxation. The practitioner places her or his hands on or close to your body in a series of positions. The goal is to release the flow of energy through your body. Practitioners believe this promotes the body’s ability to heal itself, ease pain, lessen muscle tension, and relieve insomnia. Relaxation Breathing Gentle, focused breathing teaches you to use your breath to relax your body and mind. This reduces the harmful effects of stress. Therapeutic Touch is an evidenced-based energy therapy that is used to promote balance and wellbeing. Direct touch is not necessary for the treatment but may be used. Guided Meditation & Relaxation Outpatient Integrative Health Services Prepare for Surgery, Heal Faster Program Integrative Medicine Services for Children Our Integrative Health & Health Promotion Staff Palliative Care & Supportive Care Through NYU Langone’s , we offer holistic treatments and consultations aimed at helping you cope with illness, improve your quality of life, manage symptoms related to medical conditions, and help you take control of your health. All treatments are available to the public and delivered by licensed healthcare professionals with advanced training in integrative health. Acupuncture Acupuncture is a form of traditional Chinese medicine during which a practitioner uses hair-thin needles to stimulate specific points on the body. This practice is believed to promote the body’s own healing system and restore its proper function. Acupuncture is used to help reduce stress, , and acute and chronic pain, such as neck , hip, and shoulder pain. We specialize in trigger point acupuncture, which releases localized muscle tightness in your area of pain. For appointment and availability, please call mindbody@nyulangone.org Cost : Initial 90-minute visit, $160; follow-up 60-minute visits, $120. Please check with your health insurance provider to see if acupuncture services are a covered expense. Pelvic pain can be a symptom of , which occurs when tissuethat lines a woman’s uterus during the menstrual cycle grows outside of the uterus.Often women or their healthcare providers may mistake this pain for the expecteddiscomfort of menstruation. But once diagnosed, endometriosis is treatable. Doctors at NYU Langone’s are experts in diagnosingthis condition and developing the treatment that best fits your lifestyle and goals. Screening for Endometriosis Symptoms Please complete the questionnaire below to learn more about common endometriosis symptoms.You can also call us at if you prefer to discuss your symptoms over the phone. During your period, do you experience pelvic, abdominal, or lower back pain that limits your activities or requires medication? Always Sometimes Never In between periods, do you experience pelvic, abdominal, or lower back pain that limits your activities or requires medication? Is sexual intercourse painful? Does pain ever cause you to avoid intercourse? Are bowel movements painful before or during your period? If you answered to any of the above questions,you are experiencing some of the common symptoms of endometriosis. Please provideyour contact information below if you would like a member of our team to contactyou about scheduling an appointment. to all questions, you may still provide your contact information if you would liketo discuss a health concern with one of our doctors. Your Contact Information Full Name Age Email Phone Number Preferred Method of Contact Submit Welcome NYU Grossman School of Medicine Alumni Thank you to everyone who joined us on October 7 and 8 to celebrate the extraordinary alumni of NYU Grossman School of Medicine at the 2022 Alumni Reunion, Autumn in New York It was a truly momentous occasion as, for the first time in three years, we gathered together to honor our classes ending in 0s and 5s, 1s and 6s, 2s and 7s and connect with colleagues, classmates, and friends to remember and commemorate our alma mater. View photos from Alumni Reunion Weekend and learn about this year’s presenters and awardees here. How Your Support Makes a Difference Reunion may be over, but it’s not too late to commemorate your time at the medical school by making a gift. Together, we can create a brighter future in healthcare. Your gift will support the next generation of leaders in medicine. With your help, we can continue our decades-long tradition of training exceptional doctors who will go on to conduct breakthrough research and bring not only world-class medicine but the utmost compassion to our communities. This is the power of your investment. This is your legacy. If you have any questions about making an offline gift, a gift to your specific class fund, or a legacy gift to commemorate your time at the medical school, please contact us at or 212-404-3510. Unable to attend? Give to the 2022 Alumni Reunion Support NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine A Round of Support for NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine On June 6, we hit the fairways for the 2022 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Golf Classic. Returning after a two-year hiatus, players enjoyed a great day on our new course, Glen Oaks Club in Old Westbury. The weather was perfect for our golfers and the after-event reception on the club’s patio. This year’s event benefits the Long Island School of Medicine (LISOM), New York State’s first medical school focused on primary care. Donations will help LISOM train primary care physicians by providing full-tuition scholarships to all students. Thank you to our title sponsor, Heidell, Pittoni, Murphy & Bach, LLP, and event chair John P. McNaboe, Esq. As part of the NYU Langone Giving community, your support is invaluable. We look forward to seeing you for another fantastic day of golf and comradery in June 2023. Were you unable to attend? Give to NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s 2022 Golf Classic Sala leads efforts to enhance support for children with chronic illnesses. A child’s experience with diabetes, cystic fibrosis, or other chronic condition often affects the entire family. Each person can develop stress, depression, or anxiety, and have difficulty coping with the disease’s challenges. And yet, to many parents, pediatricians haven’t adequately addressed these widespread mental health needs. Parent advocates from across the United States asked the American Board of Pediatrics (ABP) to prioritize the emotional and behavioral health of chronically ill children and their families. The ABP agreed. It launched the Roadmap Project to develop behavioral health assessment resources and techniques for all American pediatricians who care for kids with chronic illness. Collaborate to Innovate In 2019, the ABP created a collaborative of nine top children’s hospitals to work on the Roadmap Project, including Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital with leadership from Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, which is