Executive Summary Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Langone is submitting this Administrative Review Certificate of Need application for the relocation of its Infusion Suite from the main hospital at 101 Hospital Road, Patchogue to the second floor of 100 Hospital Road. This project is necessary as it will increase the total infusion chair count from 4 chairs to 13 chairs. The addition in the number of infusion chairs will allow for oncology and endocrinology infusions and expand current neurology infusion offerings beyond multiple sclerosis. This will give new patients with cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, organ transplant, immune related disorders/conditions and other conditions easy access to infusion services instead of having to travel to Manhattan for care. Once implemented, patients and their caregivers will no longer have to navigate through multiple hospital corridors to the Infusion Center. There will also be expanded evening and weekend appointments available. The new Infusion Center will be located on the same floor as the pharmacy which will allow patients easy access to medications as well as Hepatitis B testing if required prior to their infusion. The infusion treatment Spaces will include: • (3) Infusion Bays • (9) Infusion Cubicles • (1) Private Infusion Room • (1) Exam Room • USP Compliant Pharmacy Department • Clinical Lab Department • Required support spaces to help staff provide a high quality level of care. The new Infusion Center will be created by combining multiple existing suites in order to create the 5,800 SF required for this program. The current Infusion Center currently accounts for 2,577 visits annually and it is expected to increase to 7,283 visits by the third year of implementation. Please note that the Architectural components of this application will be reviewed by the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY). Robert ClemensPerkins and Will1250 Broadway, Suite 200New York, NY 10001212 251 7000Robert.Clemens@Perkinsandwill.com DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 1 (Revised 11/2019) Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 CON Forms Regarding Environmental issues Contents: Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 Environmental Assessment DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 2 (Revised 11/2019) Environmental Assessment Part I. The following questions help determine whether the project is "significant" from an environmental standpoint. Yes No 1.1 If this application involves establishment, will it involve more than a change of name or ownership only, or a transfer of stock or partnership or membership interests only, or the conversion of existing beds to the same or lesser number of a different level of care beds? 1.2 Does this plan involve construction and change land use or density? 1.3 Does this plan involve construction and have a permanent effect on the environment if temporary land use is involved? 1.4 Does this plan involve construction and require work related to the disposition of asbestos? Part II. If any question in Part I is answered “yes” the project may be significant, and Part II must be completed. If all questions in Part II are answered “no” it is likely that the project is not significant Yes No 2.1 Does the project involve physical alteration of ten acres or more? 2.2 If an expansion of an existing facility, is the area physically altered by the facility expanding by more than and is the total existing and proposed altered area ten acres or more? 2.3 Will the project involve use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater to ground or surface water in excess of 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.4 If an expansion of an existing facility, will use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater by the facility increase by more than and exceed 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.5 Will the project involve parking for 1,000 vehicles or more? 2.6 If an expansion of an existing facility, will the project involve a or greater increase in parking spaces and will total parking exceed 1000 vehicles? 2.7 In a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project entail more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.8 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 100,000 square feet? 2.9 In a city, town or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project entail more than 240,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.10 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 240,000 square feet? 2.11 In a locality without any zoning regulation about height, will the project contain any structure exceeding 100 feet above the original ground area? 2.12 Is the project wholly or partially within an agricultural district certified pursuant to Agriculture and Markets Law Article 25, Section 303? 2.13 Will the project significantly affect drainage flow on adjacent sites? DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 3 (Revised 11/2019) 2.14 Will the project affect any threatened or endangered plants or animal species? 2.15 Will the project result in a major adverse effect on air quality? 2.16 Will the project have a major effect on visual character of the community or scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community? 2.17 Will the project result in major traffic problems or have a major effect on existing transportation systems? 2.18 Will the project regularly cause objectionable odors, noise, glare, vibration, or electrical disturbance as a result of the project's operation? 2.19 Will the project have any adverse impact on health or safety? 2.20 Will the project affect the existing community by directly causing a growth in permanent population of more than five percent over a one year period or have a major negative effect on the character of the community or neighborhood? 2.21 Is the project wholly or partially within, or is it contiguous to any facility or site listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or any historic building, structure, or site, or prehistoric site, that has been proposed by the Committee on the Registers for consideration by the New York State Board on Historic Preservation for recommendation to the State Historic Officer for nomination for inclusion in said National Register? 2.22 Will the project cause a beneficial or adverse effect on property listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places or on property which is determined to be eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places by the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation? 2.23 Is this project within the Coastal Zone as defined in Executive Law, Article 42? If Yes, please complete Part IV. Part III. Yes No 3.1 Are there any other state or local agencies involved in approval of the project? If so, fill in Contact Information to Question 3.1 below. Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 4 (Revised 11/2019) Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.2 Has any other agency made an environmental review of this project? If so, give name, and submit the SEQRA Summary of Findings with the application in the space provided below. Yes No Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.3 Is there a public controversy concerning environmental aspects of this project? If yes, briefly describe the controversy in the space below. Yes No Part IV. Storm and Flood Mitigation Definitions of FEMA Flood Zone Designations Flood zones are geographic areas that the FEMA has defined according to varying levels of flood risk. These zones are depicted on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map. Each zone reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area. Please use the FEMA Flood Designations scale below as a guide to answering all Part IV questions regardless of project location, flood and or evacuation zone. Yes No 4.1 Is the proposed site located in a flood plain? If Yes, indicate classification below and provide the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance). Moderate to Low Risk Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, flood insurance is available to all property owners and renters in these zones: B and X Area of moderate flood hazard, usually the area between the limits of the 100 year and 500 year floods. Are also used to designate base floodplains of lesser hazards, such as areas protected by levees from 100 year flood, or shallow flooding areas with average depths of less than one foot or drainage areas less than 1 square mile. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 5 (Revised 11/2019) C and X Area of minimal flood hazard, usually depicted on FIRMs as above the 500 year flood level. High Risk Areas Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: A Areas with a annual chance of flooding and a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Because detailed analyses are not performed for such areas; no depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. AE The base floodplain where base flood elevations are provided. AE Zones are now used on new format FIRMs instead of A1 A30. A1 30 These are known as numbered A Zones (e.g., A7 or A14). This is the base floodplain where the FIRM shows a BFE (old format). AH Areas with a annual chance of shallow flooding, usually in the form of a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. AO River or stream flood hazard areas, and areas with a or greater chance of shallow flooding each year, usually in the form of sheet flow, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Average flood depths derived from detailed analyses are shown within these zones. AR Areas with a temporarily increased flood risk due to the building or restoration of a flood control system (such as a levee or a dam). Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements will apply, but rates will not exceed the rates for unnumbered A zones if the structure is built or restored in compliance with Zone AR floodplain management regulations. A99 Areas with a annual chance of flooding that will be protected by a Federal flood control system where construction has reached specified legal requirements. No depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. High Risk Coastal Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: Zone V Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. No base flood elevations are shown within these zones. VE, V1 30 Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. Undetermined Risk Area Yes No Zone Description DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 6 (Revised 11/2019) D Areas with possible but undetermined flood hazards. No flood hazard analysis has been conducted. Flood insurance rates are commensurate with the uncertainty of the flood risk. 4.2 Are you in a designated evacuation zone? If Yes, the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance) shall be submitted with the application. If yes which zone is the site located in? 4.3 Does this project reflect the post Hurricane Lee, and or Irene, and Superstorm Sandy mitigation standards? If Yes, which floodplain? 100 Year 500 Year The Elevation Certificate provides a way for a community to document compliance with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. https://www.fema.gov/media library data/1582295171786 6506170c5f54026f585e44e2fc94950d/FF086033_ElevCert_FormOnly_RE_11Feb2020.pdf DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (9/6/2022) Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission Contents: o Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 1 (9/6/2022) Architectural Submission Requirements for Contingent Approval and Contingency Satisfaction Schedule applies to all projects with construction, including Articles 28 & 40, i.e., Hospitals, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers, Residential Health Care Facilities, and Hospices. Instructions • Provide Architectural/Engineering Narrative using the format below. • Provide Architect/Engineer Certification form: o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation for Projects That Will Be Self Certified. Self Certification Is Not an Option for Projects over $15 Million, or Projects Requiring a Waiver (PDF) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation Projects to Be Reviewed by DOH or DASNY. (PDF) (Not to Be Submitted with Self Certification Projects) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Completed Projects (PDF) o Architect's or Engineer's Letter of Certification for Inspecting Existing Buildings (PDF) • Provide FEMA BFE Certificate. Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes. o FEMA Elevation Certificate and Instructions.pdf • Provide Functional Space Program: A list that enumerates project spaces by floor indicating size by gross floor area and clear floor area for the patient and resident spaces. • For projects with imaging services, provide Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Physicist’s Report including drawings, details and supporting information at the design development phase. o Physicist's Letter of Certification (PDF) • Provide Architecture/Engineering Drawings in PDF format created from the original electronic files; scans from printed drawings will not be accepted. Drawing files less than 100 MB, and of the same trade, may be uploaded as one file. o NYSDOH and DASNY Electronic Drawing Submission Guidance for CON Reviews o DSG 1.0 Schematic Design & Design Development Submission Requirements • Refer to the Required Attachment Table below for the Schematic Design Submission requirements for Contingent Approval and the Design Development Submission requirements for Contingency Satisfaction. o Attachments must be labeled accordingly when uploading in NYSE CON. o Do not combine the Narrative, Architectural/Engineering Certification form and FEMA BFE Certificate into one document. o If submitted documents require revisions, provide an updated Schedule 6 with the revised information and date within the narrative. Architecture/Engineering Narrative Narrative shall include but not limited to the following information. Please address all items in the narrative including items located in the response column. Incomplete responses will not be accepted. Project Description Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Revised Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Does this project amend or supersede prior CON approvals or a pending application? Choose an item. If so, what is the original CON number? Click here to enter text. Intent/Purpose: This project will create a new 5,600 Square Feet Infusion Center at 100 Hospital Road 2nd Floor. Site Location: 100 Hospital Road, East Patchogue, NY 11772 Brief description of current facility, including facility type: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 2 (9/6/2022) The current facility is an existing 2 Story Business Occupancy Building. This building currently includes office space, radiology space, and clinical practices. This project seeks to provide a new Infusion Center on Level 02. Brief description of proposed facility: Outpatient Infusion Center: This project will be a renovation of 5,600 square feet and will include (3) Infusion Bays, (9) Infusion Cubicles, & (1) Private Infusion Room. The program also includes a lab, pharmacy, and additional required support space. This will be an Article 28 compliant space. Location of proposed project space(s) within the building. Note occupancy type for each occupied space. The project is on the Second Floor and will be business occupancy. Indicate if mixed occupancies, multiple occupancies and or separated occupancies. Describe the required smoke and fire separations between occupancies: This project includes multiple tenants/occupancies. The 5,600 sf Infusion Center will be separated from adjacent building corridors & adjacent suites with a 1 hour fire separation. If this is an existing facility, is it currently a licensed Article 28 facility? No Is the project space being converted from a non Article 28 space to an Article 28 space? Yes Relationship of spaces conforming with Article 28 space and non Article 28 space: The new Article 28 suite will be separated from adjacent suites and adjacent building circulation with a 1 hour fire separation. List exceptions to the NYSDOH referenced standards. If requesting an exception, note each on the Architecture/Engineering Certification form under item #3. None Does the project involve heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, water supply, and fire protection systems that involve modification or alteration of clinical space, services or equipment such as operating rooms, treatment, procedure rooms, and intensive care, cardiac care , other special care units (such as airborne infection isolation rooms and protective environment rooms), laboratories and special procedure rooms, patient or resident rooms and or other spaces used by residents of residential health care facilities on a daily basis? If so, please describe below. Click here to enter text. No Provide brief description of the existing building systems within the proposed space and overall building systems, including HVAC systems, electrical, plumbing, etc. HVAC: The new NYULH space on the 2nd floor is currently served by two roof top units (RTU 6 and RTU 11). Each RTU is a constant volume unit with an air cooled DX cooling coil, natural gas fired heating coil, and MERV 8 filters. RTU 11 serves the existing 2nd floor conference room (Suite 201). The unit has a capacity of approximately 7 1/2 ton with 24 percent minimum outdoor air. RTU 6 serves the 2nd floor northwest area (Suites 203, 205, 213, 215, and 217). The unit has a capacity of approximately 17 1/2 tons, with 24 percent minimum outdoor air. There is no existing reheat hot water system currently serving the NYULH spaces on the second floor. Perimeter heating is achieved by fin tube radiators installed along the perimeter windows and supported by multiple supply and return hot water risers. Shut off valves are installed on supply and return branches, control valves installed on supply branches. The existing 2nd floor toilets located in the building core are exhausted by a toilet exhaust fan located on roof. The NYULH space on the 2nd floor does not have any existing toilet rooms. ELECTRICAL: The main electrical service to the building is provided by PSEG Long Island to a main switchboard with (1) 2500 amp service switch and a (1) 1600 amp service main breaker. The utilization voltage is 208Y/120V, 3 phase. Each switch is separately metered by PSEGLI. An additional metered trough is served from ahead of the two main switches and feeds Suite 101, Suite 113, and Suite 201 directly. The 2500 amp service switch consists of a bolted pressure contact switch, and it serves a series of taps for (3) 800 amp panelboards, PP1, PP2, and PP3. Each of these panels are main lug only and do not have main circuit breakers. No other overcurrent protection is installed between the 2500 amp switch and New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 3 (9/6/2022) each of these (3) panelboards in the main electrical room. The 1600 amp service switch consists of a main breaker, and it serves a switchboard section with circuit breakers. The section is dedicated to an existing medical outpatient tenant with a step up transformer for an MRI. The section also includes a spare 400 amp breaker. A 400 amp distribution panel, EP2, is located in the base building electrical room on the 2nd floor. This panel serves various branch circuit panels for tenants on the floor. A 40 amp load center is located within the demised tenant space on the 2nd floor, named S213. The building does not have an existing emergency generator. Emergency lighting is provided by batteries. PLUMBING: An existing conventional (two pipe) interior waste collection system is installed throughout the building. Conventional hard piped sanitary waste stack and vent stack systems are located in shafts throughout the floor. Sanitary waste pipe distribution is located in the ceiling of the floor below and connects to the existing sanitary waste stacks. Vent pipe distribution is located in the ceiling of the area of work and connects to the existing vent stacks located at columns. Existing domestic hot water risers and hot water return risers are installed at the various shafts throughout the floor. Existing cold water is routed throughout the floor and serves existing fixtures. Existing hot water distribution at the ceiling of the area of work has a hot water return system in conformance with the 2020 Energy Conservation Construction Code of New York State. Existing storm water risers are installed at the various shafts throughout the floor and main horizontal distribution serving the existing roof drains is at the 2nd floor ceiling. An existing gas riser is installed at the building serving boilers, and rooftop HVAC units. FIRE PROTECTION: The existing building is currently protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system designed in accordance with NFPA 13. The wet pipe automatic sprinkler system is currently zoned per floor via zone control assemblies each inclusive of indicating isolation valve, check valve, flow switch and combination test/drain valve. The municipal potable water distribution network supplies the building fire sprinkler systems via underground piping service entrance(s). One (1) underground 6 in fire service currently supplies the building. An existing 6 in backflow prevention device is currently installed at the fire service entrance to prevent cross connection between the building sprinkler / standpipe system and the potable water supply. Describe scope of work involved in building system upgrades and or replacements, HVAC systems, electrical, Sprinkler, etc. HVAC A new air handling unit will be provided to serve the Lab and Pharmacy. The spaces served by the unit shall include: HD Buffer Room, ANTE Room, NHD Buffer Room, Workroom, Office, Storage and Lab. The new AHU shall be roof mounted and will have the following features and performance parameters: MERV 8 pre filter (located upstream of supply air fans); Two plenum type supply fans 5,000 cfm each (N+1 redundancy). Each fan shall have a dedicated back draft damper to prevent air recirculation when the fans are off; Two unit mounted Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) shall be provided. Each VFD shall control the speed of both fans simultaneously; Hot Water preheat coil sized for 0 deg. F entering air; Air Cooled Direct Expansion (DX) cooling coils sized for 95/75 deg. F entering air; Hot gas reheat coil; MERV 15 final filter (downstream of re heat coil); Exhaust Fans. The remainder of the space shall be provided by a new roof mounted air handling unit. The new AHU shall have the following features and performance parameters: Nominal 12 ton roof mounted packaged air handling unit; MERV 13 filter; One plenum type supply fan; One unit mounted Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) shall be provided; Hott Water preheat coil; Hot gas reheat coil. The duct distribution system will consist of medium pressure ductwork from the AHU to each direct digital controlled variable air volume (VAV) box, with low pressure ductwork from each VAV box to the air outlets. There will be no exposed fiberglass insulation in the supply air and return airstreams. Sound attenuation at each VAV box will be accomplished via “hospital grade” (media free) sound traps. VAV boxes serving areas requiring specific air change rates will be set for constant volume to maintain the required air change rate. These VAV/CVR boxes will be provided with Hot Water Reheat coils to prevent over cooling of the space. VAV boxes serving all other areas will operate with a standard sequence of operation and will not be provided with reheat coils. Return air from all spaces will be fully ducted back to the new RTU. The New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 4 (9/6/2022) Pharmacy spaces will be provided with tracking pair supply and Exhaust VAV boxes. The boxes will modulate in tandem to maintain a minimum space pressure required for each room type. Hot Water Reheat coils will be provided for each supply air VAV box. Room pressure monitors will be provided for each of the Pharmacy rooms (HD Buffer, NHD Buffer and Ante rooms). A new 300 cfm toilet exhaust system shall be provided to exhaust the toilet rooms. The new system shall consist of a dedicated roof mounted exhaust fan and a new low pressure distribution system. The new toilet exhaust fan will be constant air flow and run continuously based on a time schedule. A new 500 cfm general exhaust system shall be provided to exhaust the soiled utility rooms, EVS closet and Staff Lounge. The new system shall consist of a dedicated roof mounted exhaust fan and a new low pressure distribution system. The new general exhaust fan will be constant air flow and run continuously based on a time schedule. A new 800 cfm lab exhaust system shall be provided to exhaust the Lab. The new system shall consist of two dedicated roof mounted exhaust fans (N+1 redundancy) and a new low pressure distribution system. Each fan shall be provided with motorized damper to prevent recirculation when the exhaust fan is not in operation. New Lab exhaust fans will be constant air flow and run continuously. The hot water heating requirements will be provided by a roof mounted air source heat pump. ELECTRICAL: A new 600 amp distribution panel will be installed either in the main electrical room or in the 2nd floor electrical room. This will serve normal power branch circuit panels, and the normal service to an automatic transfer switch. The normal source of power shall be a new 600 amp circuit breaker located in the main distribution panel in the main electrical room. (3) 100 amp branch circuit panels for plug loads and lighting will be located in the 2nd floor demised space and served from the new 400 amp panel. (2) panelboards will serve plug loads, and (1) panelboard will be for lighting loads. An Essential Electrical System (EES) is not required for the space, and one is not being provided. Power for emergency egress lighting shall be via a central emergency battery system. PLUMBING: The following existing plumbing systems will be removed: cold water, hot water, and sanitary/vent system serving the area of renovation. New piping will be extended from existing systems as necessary to support the new program spaces. Sanitary vent shall be extended from existing network to vent new plumbing fixtures. Drainage from new fixtures will drain by gravity and connect to existing sanitary piping located on the floor below. All new fixtures will be in conformance with the 2020 Plumbing Code of New York State and FGI Guidelines. A new cold water RPZ and sub meter will be provided at the connection to the existing cold water distribution. A new hot water RPZ and sub meter will be provided at the connection to the existing hot water distribution. The existing hot water return distribution system and new hot water return distribution system will be modified in conformance with the 2020 Energy Conservation Construction Code of New York State. The existing storm water distribution system will be modified to accommodate new ductwork at the second floor ceiling that will serve the new rooftop units. The existing gas distribution system will be modified to accommodate the new rooftop units. FIRE PROTECTION: The proposed renovation areas will be protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system designed in accordance with NFPA 13. Sprinklers will be provided in all areas required by NFPA 13 in accordance with requirements for fully sprinklered buildings. The building sprinkler systems will be automatic wet pipe type. Sprinklers will be quick / fast response type throughout, unless not permitted by NFPA 13 (extra hazard occupancies) or otherwise not suitable for an application (high temperature spaces). Concealed pendent sprinklers will be provided in spaces with finished ceilings. Upright sprinklers will be provided where ceilings are exposed.Describe existing and or new work for fire detection, alarm, and communication systems: An existing protected premises fire alarm system, designed in accordance with NFPA 72, is currently provided on site. An existing fire command center is currently provided for fire department operations in a location approved by the local fire department. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 5 (9/6/2022) New initiating devices and notification appliances shall be installed as a part of the project based on the new layout and will be connected to the existing Fire Alarm system of the building. If a hospital or nursing home located in a flood zone, provide a FEMA BFE Certificate from www.fema.gov, and describe the work to mitigate damage and maintain operations during a flood event. N/A Does the project contain imaging equipment used for diagnostic or treatment purposes? No. If yes, describe the equipment to be provided and or replaced. Ensure physicist’s letter of certification and report are submitted. Click here to enter text. Does the project comply with ADA? If no, list all areas of noncompliance. Yes Other pertinent information: Click here to enter text.Project Work Area Response Type of Work Renovation Square footages of existing areas, existing floor and or existing building. 24,615 SF Square footages of the proposed work area or areas. Provide the aggregate sum of the work areas. 5,600 SF Does the work area exceed more than of the smoke compartment, floor or building? Less than of the floor Sprinkler protection per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Sprinklered throughout Construction Type per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code and NFPA 220 Type II (111) Building Height29’ 10” Building Number of Stories 2 Which edition of FGI is being used for this project? 2018 Edition of FGI Is the proposed work area located in a basement or underground building?Not Applicable Is the proposed work area within a windowless space or building? No Is the building a high rise? No If a high rise, does the building have a generator? Not Applicable What is the Occupancy Classification per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code? Chapter 38 New Business Occupancy Are there other occupancy classifications that are adjacent to or within this facility? If yes, what are the occupancies and identify these on the plans. Other Suites are Existing Business Yes Will the project construction be phased? If yes, how many phases and what is the duration for each phase? Click here to enter text. No Does the project contain shell space? If yes, describe proposed shell space and identify Article 28 and non Article 28 shell space on the plans. Click here to enter text. No Will spaces be temporarily relocated during the construction of this project? If yes, where will the temporary space be? Click here to enter text. No Does the temporary space meet the current DOH referenced standards? If no, describe in detail how the space does not comply. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Is there a companion CON associated with the project or temporary space? If so, provide the associated CON number. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Will spaces be permanently relocated to allow the construction of this project? If yes, where will this space be? Click here to enter text. No Changes in bed capacity? If yes, enumerate the existing and proposed bed capacities. Click here to enter text. Increase Changes in the number of occupants? If yes, what is the new number of occupants? Click here to enter text. Yes Does the facility have an Essential Electrical System (EES)? If yes, which EES Type? Click here to enter text. No New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 6 (9/6/2022) If an existing EES Type 1, does it meet NFPA 99 2012 standards? Not Applicable Does the existing EES system have the capacity for the additional electrical loads? Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Does the project involve Operating Room alterations, renovations, or rehabilitation? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text.No Does the project involve Bulk Oxygen Systems? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text. No If existing, does the Bulk Oxygen System have the capacity for additional loads without bringing in additional supplemental systems? Not Applicable Does the project involve a pool? No New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 7 (9/6/2022) REQUIRED ATTACHMENT TABLE SCHEMATIC DESIGN SUBMISSION for CONTINGENT APPROVAL DESIGN DEVELOPMENT SUBMISSION (State Hospital Code Submission) for CONTINGENCY SATISFACTION Title of Attachment File Name in PDF format ● Architectural/Engineering Narrative A/E Narrative.PDF ● Functional Space Program FSP.PDF ● Architect/Engineer Certification Form A/E Cert Form. PDF ● FEMA BFE Certificate FEMA BFE Cert.PDF ● Article 28 Space/Non Article 28 Space Plans CON100.PDF ●●Site Plans SP100.PDF ● ● Life Safety Plans including level of exit discharge, and NFPA 101 2012 Code Analysis LSC100.PDF ● ● Architectural Floor Plans, Roof Plans and Details. Illustrate FGI compliance on plans. A100.PDF ●●Exterior Elevations and Building Sections A200.PDF ●●Vertical Circulation A300.PDF ●●Reflected Ceiling Plans A400.PDF optional ●Wall Sections and Partition Types A500.PDF optional ●Interior Elevations, Enlarged Plans and Details A600.PDF ● Fire Protection FP100.PDF ● Mechanical Systems M100.PDF ● Electrical Systems E100.PDF ● Plumbing Systems P100.PDF ● Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Report X100.PDF 100 Hospital Road, Patchogue, NY 11772Long Island Community HospitalNew York State Department of HealthCertificate of Need Application1.) Project Cost Summary data:TotalSourceProject Description:Project Cost$5,866,305Schedule 8b, column C, line 8Total Basic Cost of Construction$3,750,000Schedule 8B, column C, line 6Total Cost of Moveable Equipment$959,805Schedule 8B, column C, line 5.1Cost/Per Square Foot for New ConstructionN/ASchedule 10Cost/Per Square Foot for Renovation Construction$976Schedule10Total Operating Cost