be no more than 85 dB at 1 meter (95 dB at 1 meter for constant volume applications). Module shall be designed to fit in a 2 inch by 4 inch (single gang) electric box and mounted on the face of the fume hood. Connection using phone jack termination. All alarm set points shall be fully field programmable as well as the time delay interval prior to alarming. Module shall also allow high/low sash alarms and limits (does not apply to constant volume applications). All points shall be monitored at the flow tracking control unit. Alarm and mute functions shall automatically reset when the alarm condition ceases to exist. Alarm annunciation shall be as follows: o Normal Condition: Green LED lighted o Alarm Condition: Red LED lighted, indicating either:  Low face velocity (low hood airflow for constant volume applications)  High face velocity (high hood airflow for constant volume applications)  Emergency override o Caution or Control Transition: Green and red LED’s flash alternately o Buzzer: Energized in any alarm or override condition o Pushbutton Functions  Override: Push once  Reset to Normal Operation: Push once  Alarm Acknowledgment (Audible Mute): Push twice (LED remains lighted while alarm condition exists) d. Air Handling Units Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit per air handling unit • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive • Chilled water return temperature transmitter • Mixed air temperature transmitter • Utilize latching relays for air handling units serving critical areas (i.e., OR’s, Laboratories, Vivarium, patient areas) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 463 2023 • Humidifier valve control signal to be wired in series with fan run status contact. If fan is off, humidifier valve hardwired to close. • Damper actuators (outdoor, return, spill) must have spring return actuators with manual override. • Each preheat coil section to have individual temperature control valve with dedicated temperature sensor for low limit control. • Cooling coil to have one control valve for entire coil section with individual manual balancing valves on individual coil sections. • VFD’s must be programmed to skip resonance frequencies. Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Supply Air Temperature Control • Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • Humidification Control • Dehumidification Control • Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • Flow Control • Airside Economizer Control • Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • Indoor Air Quality Control • Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Fan Shutdown Mode • Fire Alarm Reset • Lead/lag Control • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure e. Packaged Air Conditioning Units Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Utilize latching relays for air conditioning units serving critical areas • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor Software • The unit shall be started locally and run continuously. The BMS shall be capable of starting and stopping the unit. • When running, the unit shall modulate the chilled water valve to maintain space temperature. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 464 2023 Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature • Space temperature set point • Chilled water valve position • Fan failure alarm • Common alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm • Low space temperature alarm f. Fan Coil Units Hardware • Unitary Controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor o Note: Unitary controller is to be powered by a transformer that is energized on its primary side from the line side of the power feed to fan coil unit. This is to prevent a communication loss to the controller when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. • Utilize latching relays for fan coil units serving critical areas. • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for cooling • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for heating o If fan coil unit has ducted unconditioned outdoor air, provide normally open valve for heating. Software • Fan Coil Unit Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature • Space temperature set point • Fan failure alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 465 2023 g. Exhaust Fans Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Low suction and discharge pressure switches • Space temperature (as required) • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive (as applicable) Software • Exhaust Fan Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Fan failure alarm • High space temperature alarm • Pressure switch alarms h. Chillers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve fifty percent () of chilled water plant equipment (e.g., chillers, pumps, cooling towers). Provide two control units per chiller plant. • Provide BACnet communication interface with factory provided chiller control panel. • Utilize latching relays for enable/disable. • Provide field devices for chilled water supply temperature and condenser water return temperature. Software • Chiller Control • Lead/lag Control Points • Enable/disable (hard wired) • Common alarm (hard wired) • Chiller run status • Chilled water supply temperature • Condenser water return temperature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 466 2023 i. Cooling Towers Hardware • Control to be incorporated within chiller BACnet IP controller or dedicated controller based on location of cooling tower with respect to chillers. • Monitor vibration alarm. • Monitor basin water temperature. • Monitor basin level. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. Software • Cooling Tower Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Cooling tower start/stop (hard wired) • Cooling tower run status (hard wired) • Condenser water supply temperature (hard wired) • Condenser water return temperature (hard wired) • Cooling tower fan runtime • Basin water temperature • Basin level • Speed feedback • Output frequency • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode • Cooling tower vibration alarm • Basin low water temperature alarm • Basin high water level alarm • Basin low water level alarm • Cooling tower fan excessive runtime alarm NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 467 2023 j. Pumps Hardware • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. • Differential pressure transmitters used for pump speed control shall be hardwired directly to the controller containing the analog output for pump speed control regardless of the transmitter location. Software • Variable Speed Pump Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Pump start/stop (hard wired) • Pump run status (hard wired) • Speed command (hard wired) • Speed feedback • Output frequency • Total Runtime • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode k. Heat Exchangers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve water system, including pumps and heat exchangers. • For systems with multiple heat exchangers, provide a supply water temperature sensor per each heat exchanger. Software • Lead/lag Control NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 468 2023 Points • Supply water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable) • Return water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable) • High supply water temperature alarm • Low supply water temperature alarm l. Expansion Tanks Hardware • Pressure transmitter Points • High pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi above operating pressure) • Low pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi below operating pressure) ii. Functional Requirements a. Fan Shutdown Mode • On a command to stop a fan, the fan shall ramp down to its minimum speed and the fan shall stop. • The fan discharge damper shall close slowly and shall not be fully closed until fan speed has decreased to approximately ten percent (). • The outdoor, return and spill air dampers shall close after the fan has stopped and the discharge damper has closed fully. • Refer to Unoccupied Mode. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units b. Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Supply floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the supply fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper are stopped. • Return floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the return fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper is off. • All supply and return dampers on a floor shall be controlled in a group via a hardwired connection to their respective fan’s variable frequency drive. o Supply dampers shall be grouped independently of return dampers. • Dampers shall be positioned open prior to fan starting regardless if fan is started from BMS, manual command from VFD, bypass function of VFD or fan start from fire alarm system. • End switch status of dampers shall be monitored. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 469 2023 Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units c. Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • The normally open steam preheat coil control valves, one (1) per coil, shall be under control of DDC software low limit controllers to maintain a minimum air temperature of 45°F leaving the preheat coils, signal as sensed by temperature transmitters on the leaving air side of each coil section. • The low limit set point shall be reset by the BMS based on outside air temperature. As outside air temperature drops, the low limit set point shall be raised. Reset parameters shall be adjustable. d. Airside Economizer Control • Economizer control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Global outside air enthalpy is enabled (i.e., outdoor air enthalpy is greater than 25 BTUs per pound of dry air) or outside air temperature plus an outside air temperature trigger deadband (adjustable) is less than the air handling unit return air temperature. o Supply fan status is proven on. o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode and Heating is off. • When enabled, the outside air damper, spill air damper and return air damper will modulate to maintain a mixed air temperature control set point (adjustable). • The mixed air control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point. • The supply air temperature error set point is based on how far off the supply air temperature is from the supply air temperature set point. o For example, if the supply air temperature is 53°F and the supply air temperature set point is 55°F then the supply air temperature error set point is 2°F. • A mixed air temperature error set point of 0 °F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a mixed air temperature heat gain set point. • The mixed air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). • The supply air temperature set point minus the mixed air temperature heat gain set point will determine the mixed air temperature control set point. • As the mixed air temperature increases above mixed air temperature control set point, the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate open and the return air damper will close proportionately. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 470 2023 • The reverse will occur on a decrease below the mixed air temperature control set point. • The outside air damper will maintain a minimum outside air flow set point (adjustable based upon the Minimum Outdoor Air Flow Quantity Control functional requirement). Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units e. Night Setback • Whenever the terminal unit fan is off, the system shall operate in the unoccupied mode. • During this mode, a DDC software program shall monitor the space temperature associated with a terminal unit. • On sensing a drop in space temperature to 55°F (adjustable), the controller shall start the terminal unit fan and maintain space temperature set point by modulating the reheat coil control valve and perimeter radiation control valve. • On achieving space temperature set point, the terminal unit fan shall stop, if still operating in the unoccupied mode, or continue to run switched to occupied mode. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation f. Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • A static pressure transmitter shall be located in the supply air duct, upstream of the furthest terminal unit served by the air handling unit. • The system's supply fan speed shall modulate to maintain supply static pressure set point. o As duct static pressure decreases, the controller output shall increase, to increase fan speed. On an increase in duct static pressure, the output of the controller shall decrease, to decrease fan speed. o A software auto/manual switch function shall enable the operator to override the output of the static pressure controller and adjust fan speed from the operator workstation or DDC controller. • A second static pressure transmitter in the supply fan discharge duct shall act as a high limit safety. o If fan discharge static pressure exceeds its set point, the high limit controller shall, through a software low selector, override the output of the system static pressure controller to proportionally reduce the speed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 471 2023 of its respective supply fan to maintain fan discharge pressure high limit set point. o The controller set point shall be reset such that no terminal unit shall operate at its fully open position to maintain airflow set point. • Static pressure controls shall control system operation during all cycles of operation. • A DDC static pressure software program shall monitor the position of variable air volume terminal unit dampers and shall calculate the quantity of dampers that are less than eighty percent () open. o If the majority of terminal units are less than eighty percent () open, the DDC software controller shall reset the supply fan static pressure set point downward in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at open. If the majority of the dampers are more than ninety percent () open, the program shall reset the set point upwards in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at eighty percent () open. • During system start up, the static pressure control algorithm, integral control mode, shall be suppressed until the control point is within the proportional band of the controller to avoid reset windup. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units g. Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • An airflow measuring station installed upstream of the minimum outside air damper shall measure minimum airflow and transmit this information to the BMS. • Should outside airflow be below set point, the return air damper shall be modulated closed and the spill damper open until the minimum outside airflow is at set point. • Should outside air flow be above set point, the return air damper shall be modulated open and the spill damper closed until the minimum outside air flow is at set point. • If the outside air flow continues to be above set point, the minimum outdoor air damper shall modulate to a preset minimum value. • This program shall be overridden whenever the variable outdoor air damper is open during the economizer mode of operation. • Minimum outdoor air damper shall be modulating type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 472 2023 Mixed air low limit temperature control: • If the mixed air temperature sensor decreases below a mixed air low limit set point of 39°F (adjustable), the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate closed and the return air damper will modulate open. • This function shall override Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units h. Fire Alarm Reset • After a fire alarm shutdown, the system shall automatically restart as long as no safety interlocks require a manual reset. • Unit shall resume operation to maintain last known setpoints prior to fire alarm shutdown. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units i. Flow Control • The unit’s DDC controller shall contain a software based flow control program. The software controller shall receive input signals from airflow measuring stations installed in the inlet of its respective supply and return fan, and totalize, linearize and scale them. • The flow control program shall match the return fan with the supply fan and maintain the volumetric balance between return and supply airflow by varying return fan speed to maintain a constant differential between supply and return airflow. o For flow tracking systems, return fan differential is maintained by a dedicated static pressure transmitter located in the return ductwork. Return static pressure setpoint is calculated based on the desired differential. • A software bias shall be provided to compensate the return flow for an outside air minimum reset, constant toilet exhaust and constant general exhaust at all operating loads. • The operator shall be able to manually override the flow control program and manually control each supply and return fan. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 473 2023 j. Flow Tracking Control • In all flow tracking applications, pressurization control shall take priority over temperature control. • The master terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The master terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. • The supporting terminal unit shall track the exhaust terminal unit to maintain a fixed air volume differential between the room supply and exhaust airflows. • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the master terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. • The flow control system shall respond and maintain specific airflow (± of signal) and stability (< over/undershoot) within 1 second of a change in duct static pressure, irrespective of the magnitude of pressure and/or flow change or quantity of airflow controllers. • The flow control system shall use volumetric offset control to maintain room pressurization. The system shall respond and maintain room pressurization (negative or positive) within 1 second of a change in room/system condition. • The flow control system shall employ highly accurate microprocessor controllers with a minimum 8 to 1 (8:1) turndown to ensure accurate pressurization at low airflows and guarantee the maximum system diversity and energy efficiency. The end to end accuracy of the installed system shall be five percent () over the entire range of the measurement. The master and supporting terminal units are governed by the pressurization requirements as follows: • Negative pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail closed and the exhaust damper shall fail open. • Positive pressurization: the supply terminal unit acts as the master with the exhaust terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 474 2023 • Neutral pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting with an air volume differential of zero (no differential). o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. The following requirements apply to rooms with multiple tracking pairs: • All tracking pairs shall be controlled via a calculated average of all space temperature sensors. • All terminal units must be maintaining their respective minimum flow setpoints prior to operation of any reheat or perimeter heating control valves. The following requirements apply to rooms with fume hoods: • In a room served by a fume hood, there shall be a wall mounted emergency override pushbutton and local alarm light and horn. On activation of the pushbutton, the fume hood exhaust valve shall be positioned to maximum airflow and the general exhaust terminal units shall track accordingly. The alarm horn and light shall be activated. When the pushbutton is reset, the alarm light and horn shall be de energized and the fume hood shall resume normal operation. • The fume hood exhaust valve airflow shall be added to the general exhaust airflow. The supply terminal unit shall track the sum of the general exhaust and fume hood exhaust to maintain a fixed air volume differential. • On an increase in fume hood exhaust airflow, the exhaust terminal unit airflow shall be reduced to maintain the room’s exhaust flow setpoint. k. Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Whenever the primary fan for the terminal unit is off, the terminal unit damper shall be fully open. • The terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. The following requirements apply to terminal units equipped with reheat coils: • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 475 2023 • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. The following requirements apply to multiple terminal units serving a common room: • The average of all space temperature sensors located in the room shall be used to calculate the terminal unit flow setpoint for each terminal unit serving the room. • All terminal units shall be at minimum flow setpoint prior to operating any reheat coil or perimeter radiation control valve. The following requirements apply to fan powered terminal units: • A software interlock shall start the terminal unit fan when the primary fan serving the terminal unit starts. • Start command to the terminal unit fan shall be delayed to allow the terminal unit damper to fully close. When the fan starts, the damper shall be allowed to modulate open. l. Supply Air Temperature Control • Supply air temperature control will be enabled when all of the following conditions are true: o Supply fan status is proven on o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode o When enabled, the cooling valve will modulate to maintain a supply air temperature control set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air temperature control set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation of any of the following for all spaces being served by the system:  Temperature control: Space temperature vs. the space temperature set point (adjustable)  Dehumidification control: Space humidity vs. the humidification set point (adjustable)  Return air reset: in some applications, the supply air temperature set point shall be reset based on return air temperature o The supply air temperature control set point will range from a minimum supply air temperature set point of 45°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air temperature set point of 65°F (adjustable). o As the supply air temperature increases above supply air temperature control set point the cooling coil valve will modulate open. The reverse NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 476 2023 will occur on a decrease below the supply air temperature control set point. • The heating coil control valve will modulate to maintain a preheat supply air temperature control set point (adjustable). o The preheat supply air temperature control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point as described in the Economizer Control functional requirement. o A preheat supply air temperature error set point of 2°F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point. o The reheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). o The supply air temperature set point minus the preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will determine the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o As the preheat air temperature decreases below preheat supply air temperature control set point, the steam heating coil valve will modulate open. The reverse will occur on an increase above the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o Preheat air temperature low limit control shall be operational in this mode as described in the Preheat Coil Low Limit Control functional requirement. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units m. Humidification Control • Humidification control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Supply fan status is proven on (Refer to Humidifier Valve Lockout below). • A supply air dew point control loop will modulate the normally closed humidifier valve to maintain a supply air dew point set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air humidity sensor and the supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air dew point set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation from space humidity to the humidification set point for all spaces being served by the air handling system. o The supply air dew point set point will range from a minimum supply air dew point set point of 30°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air dew point set point of 50°F (adjustable). o The operator at the workstation shall have the ability to override the supply air dew point set point (adjustable) within the minimum supply air dew point set point and maximum supply air dew point set point. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 477 2023 • Humidification control will be overridden and the humidifier valve will modulate closed if the supply air humidity increases above a high limit humidity set point of RH (adjustable) as sensed by the supply air humidity sensor. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units n. Occupied/Unoccupied Control The system shall operate based on a 7 day programmable schedule resident within the DDC controller serving the unit and adjustable at the operator workstation. The operator shall have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the system from the operator workstation or the DDC control unit. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units: o Operator shall also have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the associated return/spill fan o During unoccupied mode, the air handling unit shall not be in operation. The normally closed minimum outdoor air, variable outdoor air, return air, spill air and fan discharge dampers shall be closed. The return/spill fan shall be off. No control signal shall be transmitted to the variable frequency drive of each fan. The normally closed chilled water coil valve shall be closed. Steam humidifier valve shall be closed. o When the air handling unit is off, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return ducts shall be closed. o At the transition to occupied mode, the unit shall start. Prior to starting the air handling unit, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return air ducts shall open. o When the air handling unit start up is initiated, its temperature control system shall be in operation. When the air handling unit is called to start, its supply fan discharge and return air dampers shall open. A hardwired time delay shall prevent fan operation, allowing sufficient time for the dampers to open. When the supply fan and return fan are started, they shall both run at the minimum speed required to maintain rotation. Minimum speed set point shall be coordinated with the variable frequency drive manufacturer. The start of each fan shall be time delayed to avoid simultaneous starting of fans. After the fan has achieved minimum speed, the DDC controller shall ramp up the speed of the supply fan to maintain its operating set point.  When multiple fans are operating in parallel, all associated dampers must open before any single fan starts. Fans must be actively stopped from free rotation (via DC braking or some other means) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 478 2023 prior to start command. Fans must be started together and modulated at the same speeds throughout operation. • Electronic face velocity controller for variable air volume fume hoods: o The system shall operate the fume hoods at a lower velocity set point (when it is safe). • Flow tracking control unit: o The system shall setback air change rate setpoints in unoccupied mode. • Variable air volume terminal units: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Constant air volume flow tracking systems: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. o. Lead/Lag Control • Lead and standby equipment shall be selectable via BMS command. • Lead equipment shall be allowed an Automatic option which will rotate lead unit based on equipment runtime. o At rotation trigger (set via BMS schedule), the piece of equipment with the lowest runtime shall be set to lead. • Equipment shall be monitored for run status. Loss of run status for lead equipment for 30 seconds shall constitute equipment failure. o A failure alarm shall be generated at the BMS. o The standby equipment shall start automatically. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Headered Exhaust Fans • Pump Sets • Cooling Tower Sets • Heat Exchanger Sets o Parallel mode shall also be available, which shall operate all heat exchangers in tandem. • Headered Air Handling Units p. Fume Hood Control • A UL 916 listed individual fume hood monitor shall be provided for each fume hood, which shall measure the average face velocity at the set point NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 479 2023 independently of the sash position. Also, provide sash sensors on each fume hood to indicate the position of all fume hood sashes to the respective fume hood controller. Sash sensors shall provide an input signal to the fume hood controller that is linearly proportional to within one half inch of the actual sash position. All sash sensors shall be highly corrosion resistant and allow easy removal of a fume hood’s sashes for cleaning. Sash sensor operational life shall allow a minimum of one million full sash travel cycles. Multiple sash sensors shall be utilized for combination vertical/horizontal sashes. • The fume hood face velocity controller shall maintain the average fume hood face velocity at the desired setpoint using a proportional, integral and derivative (PID) closed loop control algorithm. The fume hood face velocity control process shall be as follows: • The fume hood controller shall continually determine the fume hood’s total open area by monitoring the fume hood sash position(s) by the sash sensor(s) as well as by taking account of any fume hood fixed open areas and the bypass opening(s). • The fume hood controller shall calculate the required fume hood exhaust airflow necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint over the total open area. • The fume hood controller shall control the fume hood exhaust airflow at the rate necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint. • The fume hood controller shall ensure that the fume hood exhaust required to maintain the average face velocity set point is always maintained independently of any variations in exhaust system static pressure or any laboratory room conditions such as the ventilation airflow or room static pressure that could otherwise affect the fume hood exhaust airflow. The following requirements apply to the fume hood monitor: • The fume hood controller shall also interface to the hood interface module at the designated measurement location on the front of the fume hood. The hood interface module shall provide a continuous digital display of average fume hood face velocity, which shall be the true average face velocity as calculated by the fume hood controller based upon actual measured fume hood exhaust airflow and the total fume hood open area. • The hood interface module shall also sound an audible alarm device in response to face velocity alarm conditions and the hood interface module digital display shall change to “LOW FACE VELOCITY” or “HIGH FACE VELOCITY” appropriate to the alarm condition. A “SILENCE” pushbutton on the hood interface module shall allow the user to silence the audible NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 480 2023 alarm, which shall then remain silent until a subsequent face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an “EMERGENCY PURGE” pushbutton that shall enable a user to increase fume hood exhaust airflow to the maximum amount for a designated period of time as required by Laboratory safety standards. After the designated time has expired, the fume hood exhaust shall automatically reset to a lower level to prevent excessive demand on the exhaust system. The emergency purge mode of operation shall also be able to be canceled at any time by depressing the emergency purge button a second time. The hood interface module shall sound its audible alarm device whenever the emergency purge mode of operation is activated. The silence pushbutton on the hood interface module shall also allow the user to silence the audible alarm, which shall then remain silent until either the emergency purge operational mode is again activated or a face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an audible sash open alert feature that shall caution users whenever the fume hood sash opening exceeds a predetermined amount. The audible alert shall consist of one minute repeating cycle of a series of quick “chirps” that continues until the sash opening is reduced to an allowable amount. In addition, failure of a fume hood sash sensor shall also be indicated as an alarm condition on the hood interface module. • Momentary or extended losses of power shall not change or affect any VAV fume hood control set points, operational parameters or stored data. Upon resumption of power after a power failure, fume hood monitor shall resume full normal operation exactly as before the power failure and without any need for manual intervention. Upon a power failure or operational failure within the fume hood controller, the fume hood exhaust air terminal shall be automatically positioned to the fully open (fail safe) position as required by Laboratory safety standards. q. Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • The space temperature of each room shall be maintained by the supply air terminal unit and reheat coil serving the room. • The shared perimeter radiation valve shall be used to satisfy the room which requires the greatest amount of heating. • If any room requires heating, that room's terminal unit controller shall modulate its reheat coil control valve to maintain space temperature set point. The perimeter radiation control valve shall be