Cancer Journal Club on Twitter, where we engage in a global discussion with multidisciplinary audiences—scientists, providers, patients, and other stakeholders—around important research articles and findings. Long-term, we have a collaboration with computer scientists at the University of Michigan, examining whether machine learning can be used to automatically detect misinformation about prostate cancer. If our algorithm could accurately identify misinformation in online content, this could be used to help provide a smarter search filter for health consumers. You’ve highlighted the downfalls of social media and medical information. Are there any benefits? When we can get high-quality, evidence-based information out to more patients and their families, social media offers enormous benefits in terms of education and empowerment. Social media also offers healthcare providers a source of freely available content to understand unmet needs of patients and families and adjust our practice accordingly. For example, as part of a grant from the Department of Defense, we are investigating sexual health among partners of patients with prostate cancer. We’ve examined data from online health communities in which partners describe substantial changes in their sexual quality of life that weren’t addressed by physicians. This provides insights into gaps in care and future resources that may be helpful. You’ve been recognized for your leadership in research—you were awarded a Gold Cytoscope Award from the American Urological Association for research in prostate cancer screening and surveillance. As one of relatively few female leaders in urology research and care, how do you think the field can become more diverse? Loeb: Currently only about 10 percent of practicing U.S. urologists are female. I strive to mentor young physicians and scientists interested in careers in medicine. While NYU Langone has relatively many female leaders in the specialty, there is still a lot of work to do to achieve gender equity in urology. Our group recently published a paper highlighting the substantial prevalence of so-called “manels,” or all-male panels, at major urology meetings. It’s important to define and quantify these issues to identify solutions. Social media is helpful to raise awareness of the need for greater diversity in the field. A recent campaign has used the hashtag #ilooklikeaurologist to promote diversity and advocate for more inclusive policies in the field. What additional research questions in social media and urology are you exploring? Through another Department of Defense grant, our team is investigating disparities in online prostate cancer information. Although Black men have a higher risk of prostate cancer and death, we’ve found an under representation of Black adults in online prostate cancer content. We are currently studying whether this has an impact for clinical decision-making among Black men with prostate cancer. Much of my research is inspired by the diversity of my patient population, whose care informs new research questions. At the same time, it’s very rewarding to bring research insights back to patients in the clinic to enhance the quality of their care. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation A novel three-dimensional (3D) planning technique could optimize treatment planning for partial gland cryoablation, according to a recent pilot study The new technique could overcome the shortcomings of two-dimensional (2D) imaging for preablation treatment planning. With respect to prostate cancer cryoablation, there are no commercially available software tools to guide treatment in 3D. , and his research team developed the patient-specific 3D models using multi-parametric MRI (mpMRI), as well as virtual 3D cryotherapy probes to simulate the procedure. “Prior to cryoablation, we use virtual 3D planning to confirm the required number and placement of cryoprobes to achieve confluent treatment volume for each unique lesion and margin, more accurately estimating treatment volume, and thus, predicting a larger number of cryoprobes,” says Wysock. Targeting A Key Challenge Partial gland ablation for prostate cancer limits side effects by focusing treatment to only regions of known cancer and preserving the surrounding healthy tissue. Increasingly, mpMRI has been utilized for detection, localization, and staging of prostate cancer While organ-sparing treatment strategies have been widely employed for other malignancies, such as kidney and breast cancer, Wysock says this approach for prostate cancer has been limited by challenges in precise determination of tumor location and volume within the prostate gland. “Achieving a confluent ‘kill zone’ for MRI-guided prostate gland ablation has remained a significant challenge.” Precise Location Prediction In their pilot study, Wysock and his team used the 3D prostate cancer models, mpMRI, and 3D visualization software to plan and simulate a theoretic zone of cryoablation. Twenty men were included in a 3D planning cohort and outcomes were compared to 20 others undergoing partial gland cryoablation using traditional 2D planning techniques. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin.” After analysis, the researchers demonstrated that the virtual cryotherapy probes predicted the exact “kill zone” preoperatively, providing novel guidance for the operating procedure. In addition, at the time of follow-up biopsy, more men in the 3D planning group were negative for prostate cancer as compared to those in the 2D planning group. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin to predict an adequate ‘kill’ zone,” Wysock says. Future studies with more patients will investigate how this method compares to traditional 2D planning, as well as how it impacts long-term treatment efficacy. Wysock says that while the findings are an important first step, meaningful differences between 3D and traditional 2D planning could not be validated in this pilot study due to the small cohort and retrospective nature. “In the future, 3D planning may allow for a more comprehensive assessment of the coverage area needed for successful tumor ablation. Our results encourage further study in a larger cohort.” Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line Gary D. Steinberg, MD and colleagues. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this era of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) shortage , the need for alternative treatments for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has never been more evident. Internationally renowned as an expert on novel therapeutics for NMIBC, , is leading several clinical trials aimed at testing innovative new treatment options for this complicated disease. Here, he discusses the explosion of new trials and concepts around NMIBC treatment, shares what is needed to propel research forward, and provides insight into the changing role of surgery. Engaging the Immune System Of the many research activities that you are working on, which are you most excited about? Dr. Steinberg: I’m currently very interested in newer forms of immunotherapy, whether it’s oncolytic vaccines, antibody-drug conjugates, or cytokine therapy. Like other highly mutated cancers, bladder cancer appears to respond better to the immune system, so I’m interested in looking at how we can best utilize the immune system to fight the disease. One new treatment option that I’m particularly excited about is the CG0070 vaccine. It has a GM-CSF (granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor) gene in it to stimulate immune cell recruitment and it is designed to replicate in RB (retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein) mutated or -deficient tumor cells. Since roughly 80 percent of patients with high-grade bladder cancer have mutations or deficiencies, it could benefit a lot of patients. We are now testing CG0070 in combination with pembrolizumab through the CORE-001 trial , for which I am the national principal investigator. This pairing may help combat the potential resistance mechanism of PD-L1 induction seen with immune cell death. Intravesical Gene Therapy You are also serving as the national PI for the LEGEND trial , that is testing the safety and efficacy of a non-viral gene therapy designed to elicit a local immune response. Can you tell us more about this treatment approach? For LEGEND, we are focusing on delivering genes for the cytokines RIG-1, an innate immune stimulator, and IL-12, a T-cell stimulator, directly to the uroepithelium. This way we stimulate both arms of the immune system. But you can put anything you want into this delivery system. You can encode IL-15 or even a checkpoint inhibitor, like a PD-1 inhibitor. I think it provides a unique avenue for a variety of gene products and cytokines to draw different responses from the immune system. Antibody-Drug Conjugates phase 1 clinical trial recently opened to assess intravesical enfortumab vedotin for treatment of NMIBC, and you are helping lead this study as well. Tell us more about this antibody-drug conjugate. Enfortumab vedotin delivers the tumor-killing drug monomethyl auristatin E directly to the tumor, taking out cancer cells without harming neighboring healthy cells. It’s incredibly active in metastatic bladder cancer and I believe that it is going to be our most effective antibody-drug conjugate in NMIBC. Perlmutter Cancer Center is the first site to start enrolling participants for this study. The Impact of BCAN To drive advancements in bladder cancer treatment, you helped found the highly successful Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network ( CAN ). Tell us more about the impact of this network. Bladder cancer research was a desert up until 15 years ago when we created BCAN. The first meeting was simply a group of urologists all interested in moving the field forward. Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research. “Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research.” We’ve brought together urologists with pharmaceutical companies, medical oncologists, pathologists, scientists, and radiation oncologists. As a result of this dialogue, pharmaceutical companies are stepping up to the plate to help drive a lot of this innovation and new drug development. The Importance of National Guidelines What do you think is needed in order to propel these emerging therapeutic strategies across the finish line? As a urologic community, I think it’s critically important that we follow guidelines in the management of NMIBC. All too often, the management of NMIBC is all over the map, making it more difficult to interpret outcomes from various treatments and to enroll patients in clinical trials. First and foremost, to help advance research, I really encourage urologists to follow national guidelines from the American Urology Association Society of Urologic Oncology National Comprehensive Cancer Network on the management of NMIBC. Radical Cystectomy is Still a Cornerstone With so many promising new treatments on the horizon, can you speak to how the role of surgery in NMIBC may be evolving? In the situation where we can preserve bladders because we have better treatments against high-risk NMIBC, we will hopefully be able to avoid recommending or utilizing radical cystectomy. It is clear that patients would like to preserve their bladder at all costs. Having said that, radical cystectomy is still the cornerstone of management for muscle invasive bladder cancer and high-risk NMIBC. All too often, patients will be treated for NMIBC and the disease will progress to muscle invasive disease. By the time that happens, patients frequently have locally advanced if not metastatic disease. There’s a fine line between properly preserving bladders, but not overdoing it. Dr. Steinberg isa member of Clinical Trial Protocol Committees for the following companies: Merck, BMS, Janssen, CG Oncology, Pfizer, PhotoCure, Fidia, Seagen, Protara. He is or has been a scientific advisor/consultant within the past 5 years for the following companies: Heat Biologics; CG Oncology; PhotoCure; Merck; Roche/Genentech; Ciclomed; Taris Biomedical (Now Janssen); MDxHealth; Fidia Farmaceuticals; Urogen, Ferring; Aduro; Boston Scientific; Bristol Myers Squibb; Astra Zeneca; Pfizer, Janssen; Epivax Therapeutics; Natera; FKD; EnGene Bio; SesenBio; BioCanCell (Now Archiano); Nucleix; Ipsen; Combat Medical; Astellas; Fergene; Dendreon; Abbvie; Seattle Genetics; Verity Pharmaceuticals, Regeneron, STIMIT, Vyriad, Protara, xCures. He has equity stock/options in Epivax Therapeutics, and Urogen. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses A trio of cases demonstrate the need to carefully weigh diagnosis and treatment. New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease The easy-to-use system will fill a longstanding gap in researching urethral strictures. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of the American Urologic Association returned to New Orleans, and this year, physicians representing the Department of Urology at NYU Langone Health presented on topics ranging from cryoablative therapies for prostate cancer to gender-affirming surgery. View Friday, May 13 Abstract Presentation Systematic Review of the Impact of a Plant-Based Diet on Prostate Cancer Incidence and Outcomes , Jacob Taylor, MD, James Borin, MD , Kenneth Jacobsohn, MD, Stacey Kenfield, ScD, Scott Eggener, MD, Hiten Patel, MD, Carrie Price, Meena Davuluri, MD, Nataliya Byrne, Trinity Bivalacqua, MD, PhD, Speaker: Natasha Gupta Patient Perspectives in Genital Gender-Affirming Surgery: The Need for Patient Reported Outcome Measures Nnenaya Agochukwu-Mmonu, MD , Elijah Castle, Asa E. Radix, MD, PhD Daphna Harel , Clarissa Ospina-Norvell, NP, Carolyn Berry, PhD Speaker: Elijah Castle Monday, May 16 Outcomes of Penile Prosthesis Implantation in Transgender Neophallus: A Single Center Experience Authors: Jesse Persily, Begoña Etcheverry, MD, Kirtishri Mishra, MD , Gaines Blasdel, Rachel Bluebond-Langer, MD Speaker: Jesse Persily 5-year Oncologic Outcomes at a Single-Institution Following Focal Cryotherapy for Prostate Cancer Management Authors: Ashley Monaco, Jessica Sommer, Meredith Akerman Speaker: Ashley Monaco A Prospective Longitudinal Study of Erectile Function Following Partial Gland Cryoablation for Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer Authors: Sameer Thakker, , Rozalba Gogaj, MD, Speaker: Sameer Thakker Focal Cryotherapy and Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Have Similar Oncologic and Functional Outcomes in Treatment of Low-to-Intermediate Unilobe Prostate Cancer Chinyere Okpara Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations New trials aim to reduce universal problem of GvHD after allogeneic transplant. A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test A gene sequencing test holds revolutionary potential for cancer treatment. Schedule an Urgent Care Visit We have locations in Manhattan, as well as Virtual Urgent Care video visits. If you are experiencing an injury or illness and you’re unable to get an appointment with your doctor, NYU Langone has several urgent care options to ensure you get the care you need as quickly and conveniently as possible. We offer specialized emergency care for adults and children. We offer urgent care services in Manhattan at . Our doctors are available for extended hours during the week, as well as on the weekend, and are able to perform minor procedures, bloodwork, and imaging services. Virtual Urgent Care video visits , so you can video chat with an NYU Langone care provider when you are at home, at work, or even when you’re traveling. When to Seek Urgent Care Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone are covered by a variety of insurance plans. Common conditions that can be diagnosed and treated by an urgent care doctor include the following: colds and flu sore throat or strep throat cough, bronchitis, or pneumonia urinary tract infection (UTI) sexually transmitted disease (STD) evaluation and treatment nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or dehydration cuts and broken bones sports injuries For medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, stroke-related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. Urgent Care at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care West Side 355 West 52nd Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10019 646-754-2599 Urgent Care at NYU Langone at Trinity A Parents’ Guide to Virtual Urgent Care for Kids Advice on Caring for Children’s Respiratory Illnesses RSV Is Spreading Among Kids—Here’s When to See a Doctor Virtual Urgent Care Helps a Busy Family Run Smoothly Virtual Urgent Care to the Rescue for Late-Night UTI Pains How a Dozen Doctors Saved Two Lives in One Over 22 Days Telemedicine Provides an Ideal Containment Tool for COVID-19 Telemedicine Transforms Response to COVID-19 Virtual Urgent Care Medical Director on COVID-19 Pandemic A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has given the green light to NYU Langone Health’s Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test—a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in hundreds of genes simultaneously. The groundbreaking technology is expected to revolutionize cancer screening over the coming decade. PACT designer , is the director of molecular pathology and diagnostics in the Department of Pathology. He works in collaboration with senior leadership at the Perlmutter Cancer Center to develop state of the art diagnostics for patients with cancer. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” “The NYU Langone Genome PACT test detects changes in a panel of 607 genes, many of which will be important for optimizing selection of next-generation anti-cancer therapeutics in the coming years,” Snuderl says. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” Designing the Test The test covers the most genes of any FDA-cleared NGS panel to date and matches patients with approved targeted therapies for the treatment of a variety of solid tumors. It includes genes related to compounds currently in clinical trials, or in some cases, where the evidence is strongly linked to cancers by basic science studies. The researchers also intend to expand the panel as more target genes are identified. In addition, the NYU Genome PACT test result includes eligibility for specific clinical trials for a given patient. The test is coupled with a unique bioinformatics system that converts complex genomic data into a report that identifies specific genes that are mutated in a tumor sample. Each report includes specific treatment recommendations for a given patient and a specific type of cancer, fully personalizing genomic medicine, Snuderl says. “There are significant gaps in molecular testing for patients with different types of cancer, especially in the community. Future plans include expanding access to this test, making it available for patients outside of NYU. Our leadership is discussing strategies for expanded access right now.” Development and Collaboration In collaboration with the healthcare technology company Philips, Snuderl and his team built a cloud-based interface capable of genomic processing, interpretation, and reporting. The interface integrates with NYU Langone Health’s electronic medical records system to form an integrated knowledge database, capable of seamlessly coordinating follow-up testing. “Our collaboration with Philips has been incredibly fruitful and productive,” says Snuderl. “The PACT test was intentionally designed to be integrated into electronic medical records, such that tests can be ordered, reviewed, and shared by a patient’s care team.” FDA 510(k) Clearance The NYU Langone Genome PACT test received 510(k) FDA clearance on July 15, 2021. While not required for an NGS-based test, 510(k) clearance is a stringent process for obtaining approval to market a device and is important for reimbursement from payers. “At the end of the day, FDA clearance is the highest bar for a laboratory test, and is really the gold standard,” says Snuderl. “We are only the second academic center to get such a panel approved; the FDA clearance is a significant accomplishment.” It is highly unusual for an academic medical center to apply for a test to be cleared by the FDA, Snuderl explained, but the NYU Langone team chose to do so to ensure that its test met the most stringent standards as it moves to the clinic. “Receiving FDA 510(k) clearance was a highly complex process that took us over two years to obtain. I believe this will be a key differentiator for our test moving forward.” Broad Implications Snuderl and his team will to continue to measure the test’s impact on patient outcomes. He believes the test will have important implications for patient care, research, healthcare costs, and policy. Currently, the PACT test is only available for use by patients of NYU Langone Health. This work was supported by funding from the Department of Pathology at NYU Langone and Perlmutter Cancer Center, as well as by gifts from the Gray Foundation, The Holliday Foundation, Randye and Brian Kwait, Making Headway Foundation, and The Ambrose Monell Foundation. Molecular Pathology Matija Snuderl, MD, is an associate professor of pathology. He also serves as director of molecular pathology and diagnostics. His research centers around biomarker discovery to improve brain tumor diagnostics and therapeutics. Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Several new trials of novel drug combinations are underway aimed at preventing graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) after allogeneic transplant. “With the current GvHD prevention regimen, GvHD still occurs in its acute or chronic forms in at least 50 and 30 percent of patients, respectively,” says Samer Al-Homsi, MD , executive director of the Bone Marrow Transplant Center, who is leading the studies. “The goal is to develop innovative strategies for GvHD prevention to improve the results of mismatched unrelated and haploidentical donor transplants and increase the wide applicability of these regimens,” Dr. Al-Homsi says. Abatacept in Combination The drug abatacept has conventionally been used to treat some forms of arthritis, but has also shown to lower incidence of GvHD in fully- and near-matched donor allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) when administered in combination with methotrexate and tacrolimus. As a result, abatacept received accelerated approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the prevention of GvHD. , Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are examining whether the combination of cyclophosphamide, abatacept, and short-duration tacrolimus is safe and effective for GvHD prophylaxis following haploidentical transplantation. “We believe that the enhanced efficacy of the abatacept-containing regimen will also allow us to shorten the duration of tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant, thus allowing faster recovery of the immune system following allogeneic transplantation,” Al-Homsi says. The researchers are currently enrolling adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a first- or second-degree haploidentical donor. Additional Combinations Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are leading another phase II clinical trial examining the combination of cyclophosphamide and bortezomib (a proteasome inhibitor). While both drugs are FDA approved for other indications, the researchers hypothesize the novel combo may act synergistically to inhibit the development of GvHD in patients with various blood cancers. The clinical trial team is adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a matched-related or unrelated donor. “If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” Furthering Progress in Transplantation Looking ahead, these and other combinations may eliminate the need for traditional prophylactic drugs and are particularly useful for those with impaired kidney function, a patient population not commonly offered transplantation, Dr. Al-Homsi says. “Preventing GvHD has important implications for solid organ transplantation as well. If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease ADAPTED FROM: Urology. 2020 Sep;143:241-247. LSE Urethral Stricture Classification The new LSE urethral stricture classification system is determined by length (L), segment (S), and etiology (E). Length is surgically based: less than or equal to 2 cm, greater than 2 cm and less than or equal to 7 cm, or greater than 7 cm. The segment indicates bulbar versus penile urethra involvement. The etiology indicates the clinical predictability of urethral tissue within and surrounding the urethral stricture during urethroplasty. Urethral stricture disease (USD) is a heterogeneous condition with poorly understood pathophysiology. The lack of a classification system for USD has slowed progress in research across institutions to advance new treatments. Reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures.” “Oncologists can use the TNM system to classify disease and compare treatments. We reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures says , a specialist in surgery for urethral strictures. The new LSE urethral stricture classification system was recently created by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstruction Network of Surgeons (TURNS), of which Dr. Zhao is a participant. The system incorporates three elements (length, urethral segment, and etiology), includes clinically relevant subcategories, and is based on readily available clinical data. In developing the LSE classification system, importance was placed on ensuring high interrater reliability, or a high likelihood that different clinical observers would classify an individual case of USD the same way. Using the LSE classification, review of 2,162 strictures revealed the system to be strongly associated with urethroplasty type and etiology. Dr. Zhao, an author of the LSE classification system, expects it to be widely utilized among urologists to discuss the treatment of urethral strictures. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses William C. Huang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Subtleties Drive Treatment A series of three cases at NYU Langone Health illustrate how management is evolving for small renal masses (SRMs), says urologic oncologist , a member of the American Society of Clinical Oncology Guidelines Panel for SRMs. Instead of radical nephrectomy, Dr. Huang and colleagues increasingly opt for kidney-sparing options including active surveillance, ablation, or partial nephrectomy. The shift reflects earlier SRM detection due to imaging advances, plus a relatively low risk of disease progression Here, the first two cases were treated with robotic partial nephrectomy, the third, active surveillance. Dr. Huang notes that currently, the majority of patients with SRMs in the United States still receive immediate, active treatment. He attributes this to reactivity and biases in risk perception. “Up to 20 percent of surgically resected SRMs are benign. In spite of the exceedingly low risk of cancer spread, there is still a great amount of anxiety among patients and referring providers prompting immediate treatment for cancers that can be appropriately closely monitored.” “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs.” Oncocytomas, such as in the first case, have overlapping features with malignant renal masses and can appear similar to clear cell renal carcinoma on imaging, Dr. Huang says, emphasizing pretreatment imaging or biopsy to differentiate this benign lesion from kidney cancer. Comprehensive imaging, such as in the second case, can support Bosniak classification but still can fail in accurately differentiating a cystic renal cell carcinoma from a benign complex cyst. The third case reinforces the need to consider whether a patient will truly benefit from any treatment, regardless of risk. Dr. Huang’s team opted for active surveillance for this patient—who died five months later due to a comorbidity. Says Dr. Huang, “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs, allowing them to make informed treatment selections.” Malignant Appearing Small Mass to Oncocytoma For the first case, a healthy, 39-year-old man presented with abdominal pain, and a CT scan revealed a 2.2 centimeter enhancing solid mass (red circle). The man received a robotic partial nephrectomy. Upon pathology, the excised oncocytoma showed diffuse reactivity for the oncogenic marker CD117 and scattered positivity for CK7. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Benign Multi-Locular Cyst Appears as a Suspicious Malignant Cyst In a second case, providers identified a mass in a healthy 54-year-old man: an incidental 2.5 centimeter complex cyst on chest CT (red circle) that was later confirmed via MRI as a 2.6 centimeter cystic left upper pole renal lesion. The septated mass had a thick rim and was rated Bosniak category III. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Comorbidity Considerations Essential The third case involved a 59-year-old man with a history of cardiovascular conditions, including coronary artery disease, severe aortic regurgitation, a cerebrovascular accident, and a thoracic aortic aneurysm repair. He had a biopsy-proven, enlarging solid 2.2 centimeter papillary renal cell carcinoma (red circle). PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff William C. Huang, MD, is a professor of urology and radiology, vice chair for clinical affairs in the Department of Urology, and co-director of the Robotic Surgery Center. He is also chief of urology at Tisch Hospital. As a urologic oncologist, his research focuses on novel therapeutics and surgical approaches for kidney and bladder cancers. People who have been diagnosed with are invited to attend an education program hosted by the Bronchiectasis and NTM Program The NTM Patient Education Program was created in 2015 to give those living with these conditions the unique opportunity to interact directly with our physicians, ask questions, and learn about the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. First North American Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on December 10, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. View presentation videos 2024 Bronchiectatasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on April 9, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2023 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2022 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program 2020 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program During this program, our experts discussed new NTM therapies, treatment guidelines, and ongoing clinical trials. Presentations included the following: Interaction with the Internal and External Environments, presented by View presentation What’s New in the NTM Treatment Guidelines?, presented by Update on M. Abscessus and New Therapies for NTM, presented by Diagnostic and Treatment Options for Gastroesophageal Reflux and Bronchiectasis, presented by Abraham Khan, MD NTM Clinical Trials at NYU Langone Health, presented by 2019 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders, and summarize current research. Presentations included the following: NYU Langone NTM Program Research, presented by Environmental Sources for NTM Infection: Where Is It?, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nonpharmacologic Therapies and Airway Clearance Techniques in Bronchiectasis, presented by Dr. Basavaraj : Update on Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris 2017 NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone experts discussed the latest advances in diagnosis, treatment, and research on NTM infections and related disorders at the 2017 NTM Patient Education Program. Presentations included the following: Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infection Epidemiology and Evaluation, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nontuberculous Mycobacterium: Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris The Association of Reflux and Aspiration with NTM, presented by Dr. Khan Dysphagia in NTM, presented by Stamatela Matina Balou, PhD For more information on upcoming events, please email Marla.Hymes@NYULangone.org When you come to one of NYU Langone’s emergency care locations, we assess your condition, provide you with the appropriate care, and determine next steps for treatment. At NYU Langone, it is our to provide treatment free from discrimination of any kind. When You See an Expert As our patient, you receive timely and efficient care. We strive to make sure that all patients can see a doctor or physician assistant for an initial assessment within 15 minutes of arrival, and those with life-threatening conditions are evaluated immediately. During this time, we may also expedite any needed laboratory tests or imaging exams to help us make a diagnosis. For your safety, multiple members of the staff may ask you the same questions. We want to fully understand your story to provide you with the best treatment possible. To respect your privacy, we make every effort to speak softly in open care spaces. We also invite you and your loved ones to ask questions about your treatment and condition. Please tell us if you are in pain or if what we are doing to manage your pain isn’t working so we can help. You and your family are the most important members of our team. Inpatient and Outpatient Emergency Care After your initial assessment, if your illness or condition requires more extensive care, you may be hospitalized. When a bed is ready on one of our inpatient units, a member of our emergency care team accompanies you to your room. We also offer observation services for conditions that require a brief period of hospitalization. We understand that having your loved ones nearby may make you feel more comfortable. We may ask guests to temporarily step out of a patient’s room when we have to perform procedures or when the room is too crowded. Please ask your care team if you have any questions about your treatment. We encourage you to be actively involved in your care. After Your Emergency Care Visit When your doctors and nurses are satisfied that you are well enough to leave the hospital, they prepare you for discharge. Everyone receives a discharge plan, a plan of care for when you are at home, and summary of your visit. One to three days after your discharge, someone from our emergency department contacts you regarding follow-up care. We want to help you with anything you may need, including scheduling doctor appointments or obtaining medications. If you live outside of the United States and need additional care after discharge, please contact our . Our staff is available 9:00AM to 5:00PM, Monday through Friday. Accepted Insurance Plans for Urgent Care at NYU Langone Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone may be covered by your insurance plan. Please review our list of insurance plans that we accept. Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS Florida Blue Options PPO