Health x Housing Lab Evidence demonstrates the multifaceted negative health effects of housing insecurity and homelessness; While there is heterogeneity in study findings, some evidence shows that housing interventions are associated with improved health outcomes and reduced health care costs; Partnerships with multiple stakeholders and individuals with lived experience perspectives can lead to innovative solutions; There is increasing interest in health care systems addressing patients’ housing as well as in broader investments in housing; More research is needed regarding what types of health system interventions and investments related to housing are most impactful; and There is a need for improved dissemination of high quality evidence related to health and housing to guide programs and policies. Taylor L. Housing And Health: An Overview Of The Literature. (2018). Health Affairs. https://doi.org/10.1377/hpb20180313.396577 American Hospital Association. (2019). Making the Case for Hospitals to Invest in Housing. https://www.aha.org/issue brief/2019 04 24 making case hospitals invest housing Bailey, P. (2020, January). Housing and Health Partners Can Work Together to Close the Housing Affordability Gap. Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Bovell Ammon, A., Mansilla, C., Poblacion, A., Rateau, L., Heeren, T., Cook, J. T., Zhang, T., de Cuba, S. E., & Sandel, M. T. (2020). Housing Intervention For Medically Complex Families Associated With Improved Family Health: Pilot Randomized Trial. Health Affairs, 39(4), 613 621. https://doi.org/10.1377/hlthaff.2019.01569 Department of Health & Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. (2021, January ). Opportunities in Medicaid and CHIP to Address Social Determinants of Health (SDOH). https://www.medicaid.gov/federal policy guidance/downloads/sho21001.pdf Hernández D. (2019). Housing Based Health Interventions: Harnessing the Social Utility of Housing to Promote Health. American Journal of Public Health, 109(S2), S135 S136. https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2018.304914 Hernández, D., & Swope, C. B. (2019). Housing as a Platform for Health and Equity: Evidence and Future Directions. American Journal of Public Health, 109(10), 1363 1366. https://doi.org/10.2105/ajph.2019.305210 Koeman, J., & Mehdipanah, R. (2021). Prescribing Housing: A Scoping Review of Health System Efforts to Address Housing as a Social Determinant of Health. Population health management, 24(3), 316 321. https://doi.org/10.1089/pop.2020.0154 Intervention Evidence Citations Lucas, S. (2018). Connecting Fragmented Systems: Public Housing Authority Partnerships With the Health Sector. Cityscape, 20(2), 85 106. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26472169 Scally, C., Waxman, E., Gourevitch, R., & Adeeyo, S. (2017, July). Emerging Strategies for Integrating Health and Housing. https://www.urban.org/research/publication/emerging strategies integrating health and housing/view/full_report Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children ParentChild+ ParentChild+ (PC+) is a national model that has been shown to reduce the achievement gap between low and middle income children. PC+ is a cost effective approach that impacts school readiness, long term school success, and strengths based parenting, as demonstrated in many studies, including matched comparison group and randomized control group studies. The model is replicated with high fidelity in Sunset Park. Compared to control groups, PC+ child graduates have: o stronger social emotional and language skills(core school readiness indicators); o higher levels of English proficiency in kindergarten; o higher third grade reading and math scores; ORS Impact (2015), Long Term Academic Outcomes of Participation in the Parent Child Home Program (PCHP) in King County, WA. Seattle, WA. Astuto J. Playful learning, school readiness, and urban children: Results from two rcts. PCHP Annual Meeting. Uniondale, NY. May 2014. New York University Lazar I, Darlington R. Lasting effects of early education: A report from the Consortium of Longitudinal Studies. Monographs of the Society for Research in Child Development. 1982;47(195). Levenstein P, Levenstein S, Shiminski JA, Stolzberg JE. Long term impact of a verbal interaction program for at risk toddlers: An exploratory study of high school outcomes in a replication of the Mother Child Home Program. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology. 1998;19:267 285. Madden J, O’Hara JM, Levenstein P. Home again. Child Development. 1984;55:636 647. Rafoth M, Knickelbein B. Cohort One Final Report: Assessment Summary for the Parent Child Home Program. An evaluation of the Armstrong Indiana County Intermediate Unit PCHP program, Center for Educational and Program Evaluation located at Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 2005. Kamerman SB, Kahn, AJ. Starting Right, New York. Oxford University Press; 1995. Levenstein, P., Levenstein, S., & Oliver, D. (2002). First grade school readiness of former child participants in a South Carolina replication of the Intervention Evidence Citations o a significant reduction in need for special education by third grade; and o higher high school graduation rates. Compared to control groups, PC+ parent graduates have: o higher pro social competence (such as fewer problem behaviors); and, sustained higher frequency and quality interactions two years after the program that correlates with children’s first grade cognitive and emotional skills. Parent Child home program. Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology, 23, 331 353. (S.C. Study) Smith, Charles & Peck, Stephen. (2020). Impact Evaluation for the Parent Child Plus Program, Newark Trust for Education. ParentCorps Two randomized trials show that ParentCorps’ full model has meaningful and sustained impacts on children’s academic achievement, mental health and physical health one of very few early childhood programs with demonstrated impact on all three critical areas of development. Children in pre K programs enhanced with ParentCorps: Performed better on academic tests, particularly in reading, through second grade, with a lower risk of reading below grade level; were less likely to develop mental health problems, Brotman L, Kingston S, Bat Chava Y, Caldwell M B, Calzada E J. Training School personnel to facilitate a family intervention to prevent conduct problems. Early Education and Development 2008; 19(4), 622 642. doi:10.1080/15374410802231057 Brotman LM, Calzada E, Kingston S, et al. Promoting effective parenting practices and preventing child behavior problems in school among ethnically diverse families from underserved, urban communities. Child Development. 2011;82(1):258 276. PMID: 1291441. Brotman LM, Dawson McClure S, Huang KY, et al. Early childhood family intervention and long term obesity prevention among high risk minority youth. Pediatrics.2012; 129:621 628. PMCID: PMC3289522 Brotman LM, Dawson McClure S, Calzada EJ, et al. randomized controlled trial of ParentCorps: Impact on kindergarten academic achievement. Pediatrics. 2013;131: e1521 1529. PMCID: PMC39641414 Intervention Evidence Citations including both emotional and behavioral problems at school, through second grade; and were less likely to be obese, through second grade. In middle school, children were less likely to be chronically absent (e.g. more than of days in the school year), from second grade through sixth grade. ParentCorps has meaningful impacts on parenting and teacher practices, strengthening teachers and parents’ capacities to create safe, nurturing and predictable environments both in the classroom and at home. Parents showed greater involvement in their children’s learning, increased parenting knowledge, and increased use of evidence based practices (such as positive reinforcement). Parents who reported the lowest levels of confidence in their ability to support their children’s learning at the beginning of pre K were shown to benefit from ParentCorps the most. Teachers demonstrated more nurturing teacher student Huang K, Nakigudde J, Calzada E, Boivin M J, Ogedegbe, G, Brotman L M. Implementing an early childhood school based mental health promotion intervention in low resource ugandan schools: Study protocol for a cluster randomized controlled trial. Trials. 2014; 15(1). doi:10.1186/1745 6215 15 471 Brotman LM. A population level approach to promoting healthy development and school success in low income, urban neighborhoods: Impact on parenting and child conduct problems. Prevention Science.2015;16(2):279 290. PMCID: PMC4156570. Brotman LM, Dawson McClure S, Kamboukos D, et al. Effects of ParentCorps in prekindergarten on child mental health and academic performance: Follow up of a randomized controlled clinical trial through 8 years of age. JAMA Pediatrics. 2016;170(12):1149 1155. PMCID: PMC5642293. Dawson McClure S, Calzada E, Huang KY, et al. A population level approach to promoting healthy development and school success in low income, urban neighborhoods: Impact on parenting and child conduct problems. Prevention Science. 2015;16(2):279 290. PMCID: PMC4156570. Hajizadeh N, Stevens ER, Applegate M, et al. Potential return on investment of a family centered early childhood intervention: A cost effectiveness analysis. BMC: Public Health. 2017;17(1):796. PMID: 29017527. PMC: 5635549. Huang K, Nakigudde J, Rhule D, Gumikiriza Onoria L, Abura G, Kolawole B, Brotman L. Transportability of an evidence based early childhood intervention in a low income African country: Results of a cluster randomized controlled study. Prevention Science. 2017; 18(8), 964 975. doi:10.1007/s11121 017 0822 0 Dawson McClure S, Rhule D, Hamer K, Calzada E, Kolawole B, Mondesir M, Rosenblatt K, Brotman L. Understanding ParentCorps’ essential elements for building adult capacity to support young children’s Health and Intervention Evidence Citations interactions and effective behavior management in the classroom. In a cost effectiveness analysis, ParentCorps was found to have a 4:1 return on investment over and above the well documented benefits of pre K. Strong evidence from an NIH funded randomized controlled trial in Uganda suggests that ParentCorps Professional Development results in meaningful increases in teachers’ knowledge of evidence based SEL practices; use of those practices to create safe, nurturing and predictable classroom environments; and student social emotional learning. In NYC, early results from a randomized controlled trial in 74 pre K programs in high poverty areas show that ParentCorps Professional Development, relative to standard NYC DOE Professional Development leads to: greater pre K teachers’ use of evidence based social emotional learning practices (e.g. emotional modeling, social awareness, social problem solving) based on standardized observations of teachers student interactions. Development. Research on Family School Partnerships. 2021; 53 72. https://doi.org/10.1007/978 3 030 74617 9_4 Intervention Evidence Citations Video Interaction Project Multiple randomized control trials have demonstrated VIP’s impacts including: Large impacts on positive parenting activities o reading aloud; o teaching; o talking & back and forth conversation; and o playing together. Reduced harsh discipline Enhanced coping with parenting o reduced parenting stress; o fewer depressive symptoms. Enhanced parent child relationships Enhanced child development across domains o most strongly for social emotional development; o reductions in hyperactivity and attention problems sustained into school entry; and o Impacts on child development occur through impacts on both parent coping with psychosocial stressors and positive parenting activities. Impacts on positive parenting and child social emotional development sustained 1.5 years after program completion Cates CB, Weisleder A, Johnson SB, et al. Enhancing parent talk, reading, and play in primary care: sustained impacts of the Video Interaction Project. The Journal of pediatrics.2018. Canfield C, Weisleder A, Cates CB, et al. Primary care parenting intervention effects on use of corporal punishment among low income parents of toddlers. Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics. 2015;36(8):586 593. Berkule SB, Cates CB, Dreyer BP, et al. Reducing Maternal Depressive Symptoms Through Promotion of Parenting in Pediatric Primary Care. Clinical Pediatrics. 2014; 460 469. PMID: 24707022. Cates CB, Weisleder A, Johnson SB, Seery, et al. Enhancing parent talk, reading, and play in primary care: sustained impacts of the Video Interaction Project. The Journal of pediatrics.2018. Mendelsohn A, Cates CB, Weisleder A, et al. Reading aloud, play, and social emotional development. Pediatrics. 2018. Weisleder A, Cates CB, Dreyer B, et al. Promotion of positive parenting and prevention of socioemotional disparities. Pediatrics. 2016;137(2). Canfield CF, Seery A, Weisleder A, et al. Encouraging parent child book sharing: Potential additive benefits of literacy promotion in health care and the community. Early Childhood Research Quarterly. 2018. Roby E, Miller EB, Shaw DS, et al. Improving Parent Child Interactions in Pediatric Health Care: A Two Site Randomized Controlled Trial. Pediatrics. 2021. Shaw DS, Mendelsohn AL, Morris PA. Reducing poverty related disparities in child development and school readiness: The Smart Beginnings tiered prevention strategy that combines pediatric primary care with home visiting. Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review. 2021. Intervention Evidence Citations Potential for further increasing impacts through linkages with community based services, such as libraries Impacts on positive parenting demonstrated in geographically distant sites with parents from racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds Project SAFE The program uses two evidence based sexual health curricula in the multi session workshop series that have been shown to increase knowledge and eliminate or reduce risky sexual behaviors: Making Proud Choices! (MPC) and Project AIM. Teens participating in Project SAFE peer education groups from 2012 2015 were part of the Complementary Strengths Research Project conducted by Cornell University and demonstrated statistically significant increases in: frequency of condom use; HIV knowledge; knowledge of HIV status; and knowledge of STD status. In addition, participants demonstrated increases in school connectedness and self efficacy, Jemmott JB III, Jemmott LS, Fong, GT. Reductions in HIV risk associated sexual behaviors among Black male adolescents: Effects of an AIDS prevention intervention. American Journal of Public Health. 1992;82(3):372 377. Jemmott JB III, Jemmott LS, Fong GT, McCaffree K. Reducing HIV risk associated sexual behavior among African American adolescents: Testing the generality of intervention effects. American Journal of Community Psychology.1999;27(2):161 87. Jemmott JB III, Jemmott LS, Fong, GT. Abstinence and safer sex HIV risk reduction interventions for African American adolescents: A randomized controlled trial. JAMA.1998;279 (19):1529 1536. Clark LF, Miller KS, Nagy SS, Avery J, Roth DL, Liddon N, Mukherjee S. Adult identity mentoring: reducing sexual risk for African American seventh grade students. J Adolesc Health. 2005 Oct;37(4):337. Tiffany, Jennifer & Exner Cortens, Deinera & Eckenrode, John & Henderson, Sara & Zhang, Sherry. (2014). The Influence of Program Settings on Sexual Risk Reduction and Health Promotion Among Adolescents. Intervention Evidence Citations which have been shown to be protective factors against HIV infection. Family support services: screening and referral and Reach Out and Read NYC adults who experienced one or more material hardships had five times higher incidence of serious psychological distress than adults who did not experience material hardships ( compared with ). Those who did not have enough money for food had six times higher incidence ( compared with ) and those who experienced environmental stressors at home (such as no heat, mold, or pests) had about two times higher incidence (11 compared with ). Children born into poverty are at risk for far reaching negative physical and mental health effects, perpetuating cycles of disadvantage into adulthood. Strong social supports, family structures and community programs can help prevent or ameliorate the impact of ACEs on childhood development and health. Tuskeviciute R, Hoenig JM, Norman C. The social determinants of mental health among New York City adults. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene: Epi Data Brief (115); 2019 https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/databrief115.pdf Canfield CF, Seery A, Weisleder A, Workman C,…Mendlesohn A. Encouraging parent child book sharing: Potential additive benefits of literacy promotion in health care and the community. Early Childhood Research Quarterly. 2020(50) 221 229. Promoting a Healthy and Safe Environment Falls prevention programs A Matter of Balance: 8 session workshop to reduce fear of falling and increase activity among older adults in the community These programs are included in the National Council on Aging comprehensive list of evidence based falls prevention programs: https://www.ncoa.org/healthy aging/falls prevention/falls prevention programs for older adults 2/ Intervention Evidence Citations of participants feel more comfortable talking about their fear of falling of participants plan to continue exercising $938 savings in unplanned medical costs per Medicare beneficiary Tai Chi for Arthritis for Falls Prevention: Balance and gait training program of controlled movements for older adults and people with balance disorders reduction in falls rate $530 net benefit per participant ROI Appendix E Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term PREVENTING CHRONIC DISEASES Program: Healthy Food Initiative Prevention Agenda Focus Area(s): 1. Healthy Eating and Food Security Prevention Agenda Goal(s): 1.3 Increase food security Objective: By August 2025, 4,860 people served will have improved food or financial security Reach: 37,000 in more than 13,500 households Emergency food pantry ▪ 5,000 households ▪ 45 services ▪ 9,000 food packages distributed ▪ 5,000 households ▪ 45 services ▪ 9,000 food packages distributed ▪ 5,000 households ▪ 45 services ▪ 9,000 food packages distributed ▪ The emergency food pantry is focused on short term outcomes: addressing emergency food needs, increasing awareness of food, financial, and health community resources ▪ Improved food security/ reduced food insecurity in Sunset Park ▪ Improved health of Sunset Park residents (overall health, better maintenance of chronic illness) ▪ Cohesive cross sector food systems network in Sunset Park ▪ Improved community resiliency and emergency preparedness (more timely detection, cross sector coordination of response activities, continuity of services during emergencies) ▪ Program administrative/ operations records Screening, Case Management and Nutrition Education ▪ ~2,920 people ▪ 1,800 of benefits applications supported or submitted ▪ 20 workshops ▪ 5 locations/ orgs sessions took place at/ through ▪ ~2,920 people ▪ 1,800 of benefits applications supported or submitted ▪ 20 workshops ▪ 5 locations/ orgs sessions took place at/ through ▪ ~2,920 people ▪ 1,800 of benefits applications supported or submitted ▪ 20 workshops ▪ 5 locations/ orgs sessions took place at/ through ▪ Participants access community resources to support food and financial stability ▪ Participants have more money available for basic living costs ▪ Participants have increased skills and knowledge to support healthy food and beverage choices ▪ Program administrative/ operations records ▪ Hunger Vital Signs and similar validated food insecurity screeners ▪ Pre/post workshop survey ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term ▪ Participants have decreased reliance on emergency food ▪ Participants report increased food security ▪ Participants have decreased stress/ fewer poor mental health days ▪ Participants have improved or sustained access to healthy/ nutritious food ▪ Participants improve or maintain high compliance with healthy living recommendations (5 2 1 0/ MYPlate) Sunset Park Community Coalition Targets to be finalized in Year 1: ▪ Coalition members, number and type ▪ Meeting structure and frequency ▪ Member retention ▪ Other outputs aligned with activities and goals Targets to be finalized in Year 1: ▪ Coalition members, number and type ▪ Meeting structure and frequency ▪ Member retention ▪ Other outputs aligned with activities and goals Targets to be finalized in Year 1: ▪ Coalition members, number and type ▪ Meeting structure and frequency ▪ Member retention ▪ Other outputs aligned with activities and goals ▪ Improved coordination and integration of food security services between Sunset Park stakeholders ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term Program: Greenlight Prevention Agenda Focus Area(s): Focus Area 1: Healthy Eating and Food Security Prevention Agenda Goal(s): Goal 1.0 Reduce obesity and the risk of chronic disease Goal 1.2 Increase skills and knowledge to support healthy food and beverage choices Objective: Decrease the percentage of 2 3 year old children who are overweight / obese at sites served by August 2025. Reach: 2000 children and their families (in Chinatown, Manhattan, Sunset Park, Brooklyn, and Hempstead, Long Island; Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (Walker site [Manhattan], 45th Ave site [Flushing, Queens]), NYU Langone Brooklyn (7th Ave Family Health Center, Sunset Park Family Health Center), NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Pediatric Center Delivery of Greenlight intervention as part of well child visits between 0 2 years (newborn, 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 15 18 month check ups) ▪ Greenlight used at 2000+ well child visits ▪ Program reach of of 0 2y children (main site) ▪ 800 families reached ▪ 2500+ booklets distributed ▪ 1500+ tangible tools (e.g. portion size snack cups) distributed ▪ 40 providers (physicians, nursing staff, health ed.) engaged ▪ 4 sites ▪ Greenlight used at 2500+ well child visits ▪ Program reach of of 0 2y children (main site) ▪ 1000 families reached ▪ 3000+ booklets distributed ▪ 1500+ tangible tools ▪ 50 providers engaged ▪ 5 sites ▪ Greenlight used at 2500+ well child visits ▪ Program reach of of 0 2y children (main site) ▪ 1000 families reached ▪ 3000+ booklets distributed ▪ 1500+ tangible tools ▪ 50 providers engaged ▪ 5 sites Children/Families ▪ Families supported to engage in healthy child eating behaviors / practices ▪ Families supported to engage in healthy child physical activity related behaviors / practices ▪ Families with tools in the home to support healthy eating/ activity related activities Clinical sites / Providers ▪ Increased provider delivery of evidence based healthy eating/activity recommendations ▪ Increased provider use of evidence based health communication strategies Children/Families ▪ Intermediate outcomes plus ▪ Families with greater self efficacy related to healthy eating and activity related behaviors ▪ Reduction in obesity Clinical sites / Providers ▪ Intermediate outcomes plus ▪ Increased site capacity to support families in engaging in healthy eating / activity related behaviors ▪ EHR data to track Greenlight program process measures (e.g. provider/health educator counseling, booklet /tangible tool distribution) and child ht/ wt data ▪ Staff tracking sheets (e.g. booklet, tangible tools) ▪ Parent surveys (by health educator, program staff) ▪ Provider surveys ▪ Analytics from Greenlight website (# downloads / views of program booklets) ▪ Notes from meetings of parent advisory group/community advisory board Greenlight waiting room program ▪ Maintain delivery to eligible children (main site) o 300 families reached ▪ Peer training of new staff, including at new site ▪ Dev. workflow for health educator (HE) collection of feeding/activity data (in EHR) ▪ Maintain delivery to eligible children (main site) o 300 families reached ▪ Peer training of new staff ▪ HE collection of feeding/activity data; reach of sessions (75 patients) (main site) ▪ Maintain delivery to of eligible children (main site) o 300 families reached ▪ Peer training of new staff ▪ HE collection of feeding/activity data; reach of sessions (150 patients) (main site) ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term Technology enhancement of Greenlight ▪ Digital online Greenlight flipbooks (Eng, Span, Chinese) ▪ Explore remote delivery / telehealth use of Greenlight at main site o 25 families reached ▪ Explore social media platforms to promote Greenlight ▪ Digital online Greenlight flipbooks (Eng, Span, Chinese) ▪ Remote delivery at main site o 50 families reached ▪ Greenlight flipbooks used in waiting room ▪ Promote Greenlight via social media platforms ▪ Pilot remote delivery at 2nd site ▪ Digital online Greenlight flipbooks (Eng, Span, Chinese) ▪ Remote delivery at main site & 2nd site o 100 families reached ▪ Greenlight flipbooks used in waiting room ▪ Promote Greenlight via social media networks ▪ Pilot remote delivery at 3rd site Partnership with parents and community leaders ▪ Analyze feedback survey results (25 30 families) ▪ Quarterly meetings of community advisory board (4 5 participants) ▪ Expand community advisory board (CAB) (10 participants) ▪ Quarterly meetings ▪ Maintain community advisory board (CAB) ▪ Quarterly meetings ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term Program: REACH FAR Brooklyn: Preventing Chronic Disease through Engagement with Community and Faith Based Organizations in Brooklyn Prevention Agenda Focus Area(s): Focus Area 1: Healthy Eating and Food Security Focus Area 4: Chronic Disease Preventive Care and Management Prevention Agenda Goal(s): Goal 1.0: Reduce obesity and the risk of chronic disease Goal 1.1: Increase access to healthy and affordable foods and beverages Goal 1.3: Increase food security Goal 4.3: Promote evidence based care to prevent and manage chronic diseases including asthma, arthritis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and prediabetes and obesity Objective: • Objective for Goal 1.0: By August 2025, the percentage of program participants who demonstrate weight loss will increase by 5 to • Objective for Goal 1.1: By August 2025, of the participating mosque sites will have increased access to healthy and affordable foods and beverages for mosque congregants at communal meals • Objective for Goal 1.3: By August 2025, approximately 2,000 community members will be referred/connected to community based free food pantries/tables • Objective for Goal 4.3: from baseline to 1 year follow up, among the participants with uncontrolled hypertension, improvement in their systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure control (systolic BP<140, diastolic BP<90) will increase by 5 to . Reach: Over 4,000 community residents Implement nutritional policy in faith based settings (FBO) ▪ Identify champion or health committee at Brooklyn Islamic Center and Masjid Nur Al Islam ▪ Engage with FBO leadership and host implementation planning meetings ▪ Conduct baseline nutrition survey with 150 congregants ▪ Conduct baseline organizational assessment ▪ Implement nutritional change reaching all congregants ▪ Organize 5 food table to serve free food to 500 600 community members ▪ Identify champion or health committee at 2 additional mosques in Brooklyn: Darul Jannah Masjid and Masjid Al Rahman ▪ Engage with FBO leadership and host implementation planning meetings ▪ Conduct baseline nutrition survey with 150 congregants ▪ Conduct baseline organizational assessment ▪ Implement nutritional change reaching all congregants ▪ Conduct 1 year follow up surveys on ▪ Conduct quarterly monitoring of nutritional policy change at Brooklyn Islamic Center and Masjid Nur Al Islam ▪ One year follow up surveys on Nutrition and organizational assessment at Darul Jannah and Masjid Al Rahman ▪ Organize 5 food table to serve free food to 500 600 ▪ Increased percentage of people reporting healthy change in diet in the past 3 months ▪ 300 community residents will be reached through the food table in the first 5 months. ▪ Increased frequency of those reporting having tried healthy options at communal meals ▪ Increased access to healthy foods and beverages at communal meals. ▪ Improved food security ▪ Baseline and follow up nutritional survey ▪ Organizational assessment survey ▪ Tracking the number of individuals receiving service from each food table ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term nutrition and organizational assessment ▪ Organize 5 food table to serve free food to 500 600 community members community members Implement blood pressure screening program in FBO and CBO setting ▪ Provide KOT refresher training to volunteers from Brooklyn Islamic Center (BIC) and Masjid Nur Al Islam (MNI) ▪ Launch KOT program at BIC and MNI and enroll 75 congregants from each site ▪ Conduct monthly blood pressure screening with 50 congregants at each site ▪ Identify health champion at Arab American Association of New York (AAANY) and Arab American Family Support Center (AAFSC) ▪ Train volunteers on KOT from AAANY and AAFSC ▪ Planning implementation of KOT, develop protocol and referral process ▪ Collect 1 year follow up surveys from BIC and MNI congregants ▪ Launch KOT at AAANY and AAFSC and enroll 50 participants from each site ▪ Conduct monthly blood pressure screening with 50 community members at AAANY and 50 members at AAAFSC ▪ Continue monthly blood pressure screening at MNI and BIC ▪ Identify champion or health committee at Masjid Al Rahman (MAR) and Darul Jannah (DJ) ▪ Train 10 volunteers from MAR and DJ on KOT ▪ Planning implementation of KOT, develop protocol ▪ Launch KOT at MAR and DJ and enroll 75 participants from each site ▪ Conduct monthly blood pressure screening with 50 congregants at each site ▪ Collect 1 year follow up surveys from AAANY and AAFSC participants ▪ Continue monthly blood pressure screening at all sites ▪ Collect 1 year follow up surveys from MAR and DJ ▪ Increased prevalence of self reported blood pressure screening ▪ Increased percentage of controlled hypertension (systolic BP<140, diastolic BP<90) among those with hypertension ▪ Baseline and follow up survey among participants enrolled in the program ▪ Participant tracking cards Diabetes prevention and management ▪ Develop culturally tailored hand book on diabetes prevention and management ▪ Planning for conducting workshops and ▪ Conduct 4 in person or live on line seminars on diabetes prevention and management to reach 200 community members ▪ Conduct 4 in person or live on line seminars on diabetes prevention and management ▪ Availability of culturally tailored hand book on diabetes management for community members ▪ 1200 1500 community residents will have tools available to enhance skills on diabetes management and prevention ▪ Tracking the number of community members receiving the hand book and knowledge on diabetes related skills from seminars ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term dissemination of hand book ▪ Distribute 500 copies of hand book to mosque members, ethnic doctors’ offices, and CBO members to reach 200 community members ▪ Distribute 500 copies of hand book to mosque members, ethnic doctors’ offices, and CBO members Referral to Mediators of Atherosclerosis in South Asians Living in America (MASALA) Study ▪ Refer 50 Bangladeshi and Pakistani community members into MASALA Study ▪ Refer 50 Bangladeshi and Pakistani community members into MASALA Study ▪ Refer 50 Bangladeshi and Pakistani community members into MASALA Study ▪ At year one, 50 Bangladeshis will be referred to MASALA Study ▪ 150 Bangladeshis and Pakistani community members will contribute to understand the risk factors of cardiovascular disease among the South Asian Americans ▪ Tracking the number referrals made to MASALA study. Health Insurance Enrollment ▪ 50 community members will receive assistance on health insurance information and enrollment ▪ 50 community members will receive assistance on health insurance information and enrollment ▪ 50 community members will receive assistance on health insurance information and enrollment ▪ Increased enrollment into health insurance ▪ Increased access to healthcare system for chronic disease prevention and management ▪ Tracking the number of individuals receiving assistance on health insurance ACTIVITY OUTPUTS (Number of People Participating/ Exposed, etc.) OUTCOMES (Health and Wellness Targets) DATA SOURCES Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Intermediate Long Term Program: Tobacco Free Community: Smoker Navigator Program Prevention Agenda Focus Area(s): Goal 1. Promote tobacco use cessation Goal 2. Eliminate exposure to secondhand smoke Prevention Agenda Goal(s): Reduce tobacco use disparities and exposure to tobacco smoke among Asian Americans and other immigrant populations in New York City Objective: Reduce tobacco use and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke in immigrant communities through prevention, advocacy, and cessation support. By August 31, 2025, enroll a minimum of 255 smokers, with of participants utilizing NRT and referring to the Asian Smokers' Quitline By August 31, 2025, the program will reach a total of 3,750 community members, the initial target of 1,000 community members each year, with an additional increment of annually. • Decrease the prevalence of cigarette smoking by adults ages 18 years and older (among all adults) • Increased referrals to the Asian Smokers' Quitline • Increased use and access to evidence based smoking cessation programs • Increased quitting rates among those interacting with navigators and coaches • Increased awareness of attendees at workshop about exposed to secondhand smoke in their homes Reach: ~3,750 community members in the Lower East Side, Chinatown, Sunset Park, and Red Hook Recruit and refer smokers to smoking and lung cancer screening resources ▪ Enroll at least 85 smokers (including at least 5 NYCHA residents) ▪ Enroll 85 smokers (including at least 5 NYCHA residents) ▪ Enroll 85 smokers (including at least 5