(4) direct theAssistant Secretary for Health to ensure thathome visiting services are provided through thehealth care programs of the Indian HealthService, and (5) direct the Assistant Secretaryfor Health to attempt to persuade theDepartment of Defense to provide homevisiting services to military families.10 references. (HE970061 1)178Using Health Education Aides inCounseling Pregnant Women.Form:Journal article.Author: Conn, R.H.Source:Public Health Reports.83(11):979 982, November 1968.Abstract: A health educator discusses the useof health education aides in counselingpregnant women.In 1966, the HealthEducation and Information Department of theDistrict of Columbia Department of PublicHealth began employing nonprofessional healtheducation aides to supplement the work ofprofessional public health educators in maternaland child health. The job qualifications for ahealth education aide were a high schooldiploma and 2 years of appropriate experience.By July 1967, six aides had been hired. Whilethe public health educators dealt with programplanning and other problems requiringprofessional skill, the health education aidessought out and met with pregnant women. Thejob description stated that the aide wouldparticipate in a program of public healtheducation directed toward motivating pregnantwomen who had received little or no prenatalcare to seek medical attention early inpregnancy. To prepare the aides for theirassignments, intensive orientation and trainingfor a 3 week period was carefully planned andcarried out. The training consisted of informalclassroom discussions, on the job observations,and field trips to health facilities. The greatestasset of the aides was their familiarity with thelifestyles of the women. The aides contactedthe women, who might not have sought prenatalcare on their own. The aides either sent or tookapproximately 40 hard to reach women tohealth department clinics each month of theprogram. The hard to reach womenrepresented an increase of 400 patients during124Maternal and Child Health1967, a total of 3,500 more patient visits thanduring 1966. During this period the patient loadof the birth control clinics was increased by 37percent, an actual increase of more than 4,600women during 1967.3 references.(HE9700061)179Using Lay Health Workers: Case Study ofa Community Based Prenatal Intervention.Form:Journal article.Authors:Meister, J.S.; Warrick, L.H.; deZapien, J.G.; Wood, A.H.Source:Journal of Community Health.17(1):37 51, February 1992.Abstract:Researchers report on the design andimplementation of a prenatal outreach andeducation intervention for low income Hispanicand Hispanic American women living in threemigrant and seasonal farmworker communitiesin southwest Arizona.Researchers designed theintervention to (1) identify pregnant womenwith inadequate or no prenatal care; (2) provideeducation support, advocacy, and referral; and(3) create an ongoing community resource ofknowledge by training community women inaspects of conception, pregnancy, labor anddelivery, postnatal care, and related topics. Theintervention included three components:(1) aSpanish language prenatal education guide, (2)a delivery system using indigenous healtheducators, and (3) a support network of localhealth professionals.Researchers recruited aprogram coordinator/trainer who was a nursemidwife, was partly bilingual, and was familiarwith Mexican culture. A fully bilingual andbicultural woman who had been a farmworkeracted as a consultant. The programcoordinator/trainer and the consultantinformally recruited local women to act ashealth promoters and provided 2 months oftraining for 4 hours per week. Teaching thehealth promoters to teach was as important asproviding them with knowledge aboutpregnancy. During training, program staffrecruited program participants by placingposters in stores, radio announcements, makingvisits to Women and Infant Children (WIC)groups, and talking with neighbors and friends.Each health promoter recruited 10 women forher class. Classes were held in three targetcommunities. The program exceeded theplanners' initial expectations, both in the extentand enthusiasm of response and in its ability todeliver an educational and social supportprogram.Critical lessons learned include (1)how to maintain cultural relevance, (2) how toconduct a thorough initial communityassessment to identify potential resistance, (3)how to ensure careful attention to theempowerment of community based workers,and (4) how to collect data specifically todocument the effect for funders andpolicymakers. 37 references. (HE9201187)180Working With Community HealthAdvisors as Part of the Community HealthTeam.Form:Journal article.Author: Rudner, N.Source:Journal of Public Health Managementand Practice.2(3):60 65, Summer 1996.Abstract: Community health advisors (CHA's)typically come from sociocultural backgroundssimilar to those of the target community andusually do not have formal education beyondhigh school. They may visit families, help themwith family health needs, and provide supportand encouragement. CHA's can bridge culturalgaps between health care providers and clientsby using their communication skills, familiaritywith the culture and experiences of clients, andtraining and information from the program. The125Maternal and Child HealthResource Sisters/Companeras Program began inFlorida in 1992 as a peer support program forpregnant women, with home visits by CHA'sand peer support groups. The CHA's provideoutreach and case management, and facilitatethe peer support group. They work withcaseloads of 60 pregnant women, helping themaccess health and social services, ensuringongoing prenatal care, and providing peersupport.Qualifications for CHA's include (1)experiences similar to those of clients, withsome personal successes; (2) experience usingpublic services, such as the local healthdepartment; (3) natural talent and warmth;(4) some successful work experience; (5) highschool diploma or equivalent; and (6) owntransportation. Of 13 CHA's hired, only 4 hadthe personal, social, and work skills to continueto be productive for more than1 year. SomeCHA's were uncomfortable with their role,which they saw as a negative link between theirneighbors and the system; some felt anger anddepression that interfered with their roles.Rugged individualism, which may have aidedstreet survival, made it difficult for some CHA'sto establish mutual trust or to build a team.Socioeconomic and educational differencesbetween CHA's and clients often createddistances that mitigated against the goal ofdeveloping staff who understood and relatedwell with the community.Selectingsupervisory staff for the CHA's proved harderthan selecting CHA's.Successful supervisorystaff had skills, maturity, and enthusiasm forworking with the CHA's.Senior staff werenurses and social workers, average age 41years, with an average of 17 years of workexperience; all but one were black. Trainingwas ongoing; new staff had an intensive month long orientation, and staff also had weekly 2 hour training sessions covering casemanagement, group facilitation, and staff initiated issues. CHA's were urged to have asense of ownership in their work and in theprogram. A focus on the multiple strengths ofthe whole team and a shift from a hierarchicalapproach helped the CHA's.14 references.(HE9700351)126Sexual Behavior181Burnout, Social Support and AIDSVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Author: Maslanka, H.Source: AIDS Care.8(2): 195 206, 1996.Abstract: A research consultant examined theeffect that social support from agency staff andother volunteers had on the ability of volunteersworking at the Gay Men's Health Crisis(GMHC) in New York City to deal with humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) volunteering,the rewards they experienced throughvolunteering, and their experience of burnout.Between 1988 and 1990, more than 874individuals were enrolled in a 3 yearlongitudinal study of volunteers through weeklyorientation meetings held at GMHC.Participants completed questionnairesaddressing demographics and motivations forvolunteering. A follow up questionnaire mailed6 months later to individuals who had beenvolunteering for at least 4 months containedmeasures of social support, rewards, andburnout, and was returned by 444 individuals,265 of which were the study participants.Stress; social support; burnout (describedthrough scales of exhaustion, depersonalization,lack of boundaries, and withdrawal); rewards(defined as new values, sense of efficacy, andsense of community); motivations; and lengthof volunteering were assessed. Results indicatedthat being younger and having experiencedmore stress lead to heightened perceptions ofburnout while rewards and staff support helpdecrease that stress. By rewarding volunteersthrough being supportive of their achievementsin their work, volunteers may well be protectedfrom experiencing burnout. The only rewardthat did lessen burnout was that of a sense ofefficacy on the part of volunteers. Theresearcher concludes that although staff supportmay help ameliorate some burnout symptoms, amore realistic expectation of what their workentails would serve volunteers better. 4 figures,2 tables, 18 references. (HE9700074)182Collaboration as a Strategy for AcquiredImmunodeficiency Syndrome Prevention.Form:Journal article.Authors: Kavanagh, K.H.; Harris, R.M.;Hetherington, S.E.; Scott, D.E.Source: Archives of Psychiatric Nursing.6(6):33 1 339, December 1992.Abstract:Researchers report on a trainingproject, the Peer Counseling LeadershipTraining Program (PCLT), developed to test theefficacy of an AIDS prevention model based ona strategy of collaboration between groupparticipants called leader trainees andcoinvestigator/leaders, to promote culturallyacceptable behavioral alternatives aimed atreduction of risk for HIV infection. Nine blackwomen, participants in a methadonemaintenance program in Baltimore, Maryland,volunteered to attend and participate in a seriesof eight 2 hour sessions led by the fourcoinvestigators. A combination of quantitativeand qualitative research methods allowedtriangulation of data sources and analyticalperspectives.Quantitative data were collectedthrough use of instruments tested in an earlierstudy. The questionnaires investigated bothpersonal and community activities. Qualitativedata were collected through participant observation in all sessions, discussions of groupprocess, and field notes based on audiotapedpostgroup sessions. The PCLT aimed atchanging high risk sexual and drug use127Sexual Behaviorbehaviors through collaborative counselingfocused on incentives for positive change. Eachsession focused on discussion of a specificaspect of peer counseling and leadershiptraining, AIDS, and modeling of effectivecommunication and group facilitation skills.The results of the sexual and drug behaviorquestionnaires indicated that there was littleevidence of safer sex practices on the pretest,but there were positive changes on the posttest,with the greatest change in the increased use ofcondoms. On the posttest, each woman whocontinued to use intravenous drugs reportedeither cleaning her tools appropriately withbleach and water or using new needles.Otherwise, drug use practices apparently didnot change appreciably.Results of the PCLTindicate that this approach facilitates personalrisk reducing behavioral change, improved self esteem, and community based preventionefforts to promote behaviors that are assessed asbeneficial and feasible. 70 references.(HE9700057)183Community AIDS/HIV Risk Reduction:The Effects of Endorsements by PopularPeople in Three Cities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Kelly, J.A.; St. Lawrence, J.S.;Stevenson, L.Y.; Hauth, A.C.; Kalichman, S.C.;Diaz, Y.E.; Brasfield, T.L.; Koob, J.J.; Morgan,M.G.Source: American Journal of Public Health.82(11):1483 1489, November 1992.Abstract: To replicate, extend, and betterestablish the generality of a model ofintervention that trained popular opinion leadersin the gay community to serve as behavioralchange endorsers to their friends andacquaintances, researchers evaluated the modelsequentially in Biloxi, Mississippi, Hattiesburg,Mississippi, and Monroe, Louisiana, during1989 to 1991. The experimental design was amultiple baseline or sequential stepwise laggeddesign, in which (1) initial baseline survey datawere collected in all three cities; (2)intervention was conducted in the first city;(3) surveys were repeated in all cities followingthe first city intervention; and (4) interventionwas introduced in city two, and so on, untileach city sequentially received the sameintervention. To establish risk behavior levelsamong gay men, the researchers conductedanonymous surveys over three nights at the gaybars in each city. When they introduced theintervention into a community, they trainedeach bartender in that city's gay clubs toobserve people in the club over a1 week periodand to identify individuals who were mostpopular with gay men.Researchers consideredthese people to be popular opinion leaders andrecruited them for training. Opinion leadersattended four weekly 90 minute sessions inwhich the social skills they needed to serve asrisk reduction endorsers to their peers weretaught. Opinion leaders were taught how to (1)correct others' misconceptions concerning HIV/AIDS risk; (2) recommend to peers thestrategies needed to implement risk reduction;and (3) personally endorse the benefits,importance, and social acceptability of makingprecautionary behavioral changes. Trainingused didactic and group discussion methods,modeling of effective health promotionmessages, and extensive role playing. Eachopinion leader contracted to have at least 14conversations with peers; group sessionsreviewed and reinforced these efforts. Theresults showed that the intervention consistentlyproduced systematic reductions in thepopulation's high risk behavior of 15 percent to29 percent from baseline levels, with the samepattern of effects sequentially repeated in allthree cities.Researchers conclude that theresults support the utility of norm changing128Sexual Behaviorapproaches to reduce HIV risk behavior.4 figures,1 table,11 references. (HE9700053)184Effect of Peer Counselors on AdolescentCompliance in Use of Oral Contraceptives.Form:Journal article.Authors:Jay, M.S.; DuRant, R.H.; Shoffitt, T.;Linder, C.W.; Litt, I.F.Source:Pediatrics.73(2): 126 131, February1984Abstract:Researchers tested the effect of apeer versus nurse counseling program onadolescent compliance with oral contraceptives.Participants were 57 adolescent females aged14 to 19 years (55 blacks and 2 whites) residingin one of five federally funded housing projectsin Augusta, Georgia, and registered in the TitleV Children and Youth (C and Y) Project. Peercounselors were five adolescent females aged17 and 18 years from the C and Y Project; threefemale nurses aged 26 to 29 years working inthe C and Y Project served as the nursecounselors. The nurse counselor groupincluded 31 participants; the peer counselorgroup included 26 participants. Eachparticipant completed a pretest questionnairemeasuring demographic variables, medicalhistory, sexual activity and development, andsociopsychological variables (e.g., motivationfor seeking birth control, factors for predictingcompliance, autonomy, life crisis events, andadolescent life change). At the first visit,participants in both groups received one cycleof oral contraceptives and instruction on theiruse from either a peer or nurse counselor.Participants were followed up at 1 , 2, and 4months. At each follow up appointment,participants received further counseling andoral contraceptives and provided a urine sampleto be tested for the presence of a marker in theoral contraceptive capsule. Measures ofnoncompliance included (1) whether theparticipant became pregnant during theprevious month, (2) whether she missed herappointment, (3) whether she missed takingthree or more oral contraceptives during themonth, and (4) absence of urinary fluorescenceat the time of follow up. At the first and secondmonth follow ups, the participants in the peer counseled group had significantly lowernoncompliance than the nurse counselor group.At the month 4 follow up, a psychosocialindicator of hopelessness significantlyinteracted with the counseling groups' effect oncompliance. The use of peer counselors may bebeneficial in helping adolescents at high riskdeal with their hopelessness by providing themwith positive role models; in turn, this mayincrease their compliance with contraceptiveregimens.3 tables, 32 references.(HE9700095)185Nonprofit Sector's Response to the AIDSEpidemic: Community Based Services inSan Francisco.Form:Journal article.Author: Arno, PS.Source: American Journal of Public Health.76(11): 1325 1330, November 1986.Abstract: A health educator examines the roleof nonprofit, community based services inresponse to the AIDS epidemic in SanFrancisco, California. By the end of 1985, thereported number of AIDS cases in the city was1 ,63 1. The city government contracted servicesof public health education, risk reductionstrategies, psychosocial counseling, and homehealth care services to community basedorganizations, including the San FranciscoAIDS Foundation (SFAF), the Shanti Project,and Hospice of San Francisco. The SFAF,which works closely with the city health129Sexual Behaviordepartment, university scientists, and marketresearchers, provided (1) public healtheducation about AIDS through telephoneservices, educational events, mediaadvertisements, media relations, and materialdevelopment and distribution; (2) a privatelyfunded food bank; and (3) a social servicesprogram that facilitated access to governmentprograms including Social Security, GeneralAssistance, and Food Stamp programs. TheShanti Project provided counseling services anda housing program. Hospice of San Franciscoprovided home health and hospice care topersons with AIDS. The SFAF and ShantiProject relied heavily on volunteers, whom theyrecruited and trained. Each volunteer committeda specific amount of time to an organization. Atthe AIDS Foundation, volunteers were seen asstaff extenders; the paid professional staff wasprimarily responsible for the activities andvolunteers assisted in carrying them out. At theShanti Project, trained volunteers provided thebulk of the emotional support and practicalsupport services themselves.Outpatient andinpatient services for persons with AIDS at SanFrancisco General Hospital were integratedwith those provided by community basedgroups. The author concludes that community based organizations played a central role inresponding to the AIDS epidemic.6 tables,23 references. (HE9700094)130Injury and Violence186Approaches to Preventing Child Abuse:The Health Visitors Concept.Form:Journal article.Author: Kempe, C.H.Source: American Journal of Diseases ofChildren.130(9):941 947, September 1976.Abstract: The author recommends developinga national health visitors system as a strategyfor preventing child abuse.It is routine forchildren to have periodic health assessmentsthat include a standard history and physicalexamination. The author suggestssupplementing these with standardizedobservations in the prenatal, perinatal, andpostnatal care of families. The system wouldconsist of lay health visitors (or nurses whenavailable) who work with other healthprofessionals to ensure that all of the children'sbasic health needs are met by facilitating andensuring access to comprehensive health carefor all children, especially during their first 4years of life. The health visitors should besuccessful mothers who are able to share theirexperiences with less experienced youngfamilies and who will form a bridge betweenfamilies and the health care system. Thesehealth visitors would get to know the familiesduring pregnancy to establish a relationship andwould visit regularly, not only in the firstmonths of life but at least twice yearly in thesecond year of life and until the child reachesschool age. Health visitors should go into thehomes, weigh and measure the children,educate the family on health issues, and observethe family situation in order to determine whatproblems exist.Predicting and preventing childabuse is practical if standard observations aremade early. By prioritizing early intervention,children receive some protection frominappropriate parenting. The use of visitingnurses or indigenous health visitors is aninexpensive, nonthreatening, and efficientmethod of giving children the greatest possiblechance to reach their potential. 4 tables.(HE9700491)187Injury Prevention Program in an UrbanAfrican American Community.Form:Journal article.Authors: Schwarz, D.F.; Grisso, J.A.; Miles,C; Holmes, J.H.; Sutton, R.L.Source: American Journal of Public Health.83(5):675 680, May 1993.Abstract: The Philadelphia Injury PreventionProgram developed a model for a community based injury prevention project called the SafeBlock Project. The project was a cooperativeeffort of the Philadelphia Department of PublicHealth, the University of Pennsylvania Schoolof Medicine, the Children's Hospital ofPhiladelphia, and the Philadelphia CitizensAdvisory Board for Injury Prevention. Theproject was designed to improve injuryprevention knowledge and to reduce the numberof hazards in the home and the rate of injuryamong residents of a poor, inner city,predominantly African American community.The project combined several home injury prevention strategies and applied them tosituations in individual homes to lessen injuryrisks. Researchers assigned nine census tracts inthe target community to either the interventionor the control area. The intervention, carriedout by trained community outreach workers,consisted of (1) home modification for simpleinjury prevention measures, (2) homeinspection accompanied by information abouthome hazards, and (3) education about selected131Injury and Violenceinjury prevention practices. Approximately 12months after the intervention, researchersassessed random samples of the control andintervention homes for home hazards andinjury prevention knowledge. Results indicatedthat a significantly larger proportion ofintervention homes than control homes hadadopted injury prevention measures, such asfunctioning smoke detectors, syrup of ipecac,safely stored medications, and had reducedelectrical and tripping hazards. There were noconsistent differences on home hazards thatrequired major effort to correct.5 tables,12 references. (HE9301036)188What's New in Elder AbuseProgramming? Four Bright Ideas.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wolf, R.S.; Pillemer, K.Source:Gerontologist.34(1): 126 129,February 1994.Abstract:Health educators present fourmodels that address the common problemsfaced by community agencies dealing withelder abuse cases:a multidisciplinary caseconference team (San Francisco, California); avictim support group (New York City); avolunteer advocacy program (Madison,Wisconsin); and a master's degree adultprotective services track in social work(Hawaii).Information about these models wasobtained through a detailed process ofevaluation:(1) in depth interviews with each ofthe project coordinators conducted twice duringan 18 month period that addressed the historyof the project and its aims, major activities, anddistinctive features; (2) interviews with otherproject personnel; (3) interviews with staffmembers of the sponsoring agencies about theoverall impression of the project; and (4) atleast two site visits by the evaluation team toeach project to discuss daily operations. TheSan Francisco multidisciplinary team has ninemembers from various professions and settings,including case management, family counseling,civil law, geriatric medicine, and adultprotective services. Community agencies refercases to the team for various reasons, includingclarifying the individual agency roles, receivinghelp in handling a nontypical case, andobtaining legal and medical consultation notreadily available to them through other means.The Senior Advocacy Volunteer Program(SAVP) in Wisconsin interviews and trainsvolunteer advocates to pair with persons overage 59 years who had experienced or were indanger of experiencing abuse, neglect, or self neglect. Requests came from public and privateagencies that believed their clients wouldbenefit from having more frequent visitationand more emotional support than their staffcould provide. The Victim Support Group inNew York was open to persons over age 59years who were identified by agencies asvictims of abuse and neglect inflicted by afamily member.Participants reported that thegroup eased their sense of isolation, bufferedtheir feelings of victimization, and served as afamily for them. The master's level training inadult protective services in Hawaii providedstudents with an enriched placement programwith a full time field instructor who carefullymonitored and supported the students as theygradually took responsibility for cases. Theauthors concluded that factors in the success ofthe four models included urban location,support of the local adult protective servicesystem, and cooperation of agencies that forman elder abuse network. (HE9700099)132Mental Health189Career Escalation Training: Five YearFollow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sainer, E.A.; Ruiz, P.; Wilder, J.F.Source: American Journal of Public Health.65(11): 1208 1211, November 1975.Abstract:In 1961, the Joint Commission ofMental Illness and Health recommended in itsfinal report, Action for Mental Health, thelaunching of a national staff recruitment andtraining program for professionals andsubprofessionals.It advocated thatsubprofessionals receive on the job training andthat educational opportunities be madeavailable for their career development. Thedevelopment of the community mental healthmovement was largely in response to thismandate. As community mental health centersproliferated, the gap between the demand formental health services and the existing staffsupply became increasingly evident. Anapproach to a solution of this problem has beento develop a new group of health workers calledparaprofessionals or indigenous workers. Onemental health program that employsparaprofessionals, or indigenous workers, is theLincoln Community Mental Health Center atYeshiva University in the Bronx, New York.The indigenous worker was defined as a typicalresident of an underprivileged area who washired to work for social and economicimprovement in the neighborhood. At thebeginning of the 5 year program, the centeremployed 58 community mental healthworkers. The major objectives of the programwere to have the workers acquire academiccredentials, enhance their career mobility, andto retain new mental health worker careerists inthe mental health field. Researchers followedtwo groups of community mental healthworkers at the center over a 5 year period:the1 8 workers who chose to enter a careerescalation program, and the remaining 40workers who did not enter the program forvarious reasons.Results showed that 12 of the18 individuals in the career escalation programdropped out over the 5 year period for variousreasons. The primary reason five of them leftwas the conflict between commitments to theprogram and family life.Others had increasingdemands at work or dropped out of the programbecause of academic problems.In the secondgroup, 17 of the 40 individuals who did notoriginally enter the program did so at laterdates. Three achieved degrees, and 10 otherswere still pursuing degrees.Individuals whoentered the career escalation program from bothgroups showed a high retention rate in themental health field, whereas those who neverentered the program did not.5 references.(HE9700325)190Community Oriented Program forTraining and Using Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Nicoletti, J.; Flater, L.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.ll(l):58 63, Spring 1975.Abstract: The authors developed andevaluated a community oriented program fortraining and using volunteers with the goals of(1) providing a training program for individualsvolunteering in the mental health profession, (2)providing an opportunity for the participants toapply their skills while assisting the center inmeeting the needs of the community, (3)providing college credit for the volunteers as anincentive for participation, and (4) providing a133Mental Healthmeans for the community to learn about andparticipate in the functioning of a communitymental health center. The participants consistedof1 1 females from the Arvada (Colorado)community who had contacted the center forthe purpose of offering their services asvolunteers. The volunteers ranged in age from24 to 40 years and had at least a high schooldegree. The community volunteer programconsisted of two portions:training andpracticum. Each session lasted 10 weeks, andthe volunteers received three college credits perportion through a local university. The trainingportion provided the volunteers with cursoryknowledge of the mental health field andvarious approaches used at the center. A largesegment of the training addressedcommunication skills and discrimination (i.e.,identification of the affect being expressed bythe client, the area of interaction in which thestatement occurred, and the effectiveness of thetherapeutic response) via the use of videotapesand role playing. The practicum involvedgiving the volunteers the opportunity toparticipate in the various programs conducted atthe center.Therapists supervised the volunteersduring the practicum portion. The authorsadministered a communication written scale, acommunication video role playing segment, awritten discrimination scale, and discriminationvideo segment to all participants before andafter the training. The practicum was assessedby rating scales developed for therapy andconsultation placements. The results of theevaluation support the effectiveness of trainingvolunteers in communication anddiscrimination.Posttest scores for thevolunteers showed significant change frompretest scores in the positive direction.Resultsimply that the use of volunteers can be extendedfrom clerical tasks into the area of interpersonalhelping. 4 tables, 4 references. (HE9700345)191Dilemma of Mental HealthParaprofessionals at Home.Form:Journal article.Authors:Miller, B.G.; Pylypa, J.Source: American Indian and Alaska NativeMental Health Research. 6(2): 13 33, 1995.Abstract: The authors present a preliminarymodel of the social placement of nativecaregivers and illustrate the implications of thatplacement for health care delivery. They applyan anthropological model of Coast Salishcommunity dynamics to the Swinomish TribalMental Health Project, which employs nativeparaprofessionals on Coast Salish reservations.The use of Native American communitymembers as lay health providers is complicatedby the nature of the social relationships withinthe community and by the way changes in theserelationships over time affect the provider'sability to be an effective helper.In Coast Salishcommunities, the core unit is the familynetwork. However, family membership isflexible and individuals can belong to severaldifferent family networks by activating differentkinship ties. For this reason, family networkcomposition changes over time as newmembers are recruited, old members decide todisaffiliate themselves, new families formaround one or more influential leaders, and oldfamilies lose their cohesion. Family networksappear to follow a fairly predictable cycle ofgrowth, maturation, and collapse. The twoways these changes affect the individual'saccess to health care are:(1) the size of anetwork affects the availability of kin to providesuch resources as care, transportation tofacilities, and emotional support, and (2) thesize and power of the network affects theindividual's relationship to, and identificationwith, tribal institutions that provide services. Atthe Swinomish Tribal Mental Health Project,134Mental Healththe counselor's ability to be an effective helperis affected not only by the personal relationshipbetween the counselor and client but also by therelationship between their respective familynetworks, the extent to which the counselor isregarded as the appropriate person to offerassistance, the client's willingness to shareprivate family matters with the counselor, andthe extent to which the family supports thecounselor client relationship.In addition, theclient counselor relationship is susceptible tochange as interfamily alliances and rivalriesdevelop and as family networks restructure overtime by moving through the cyclical process offormation, growth, and collapse. The successof native paraprofessionals as health providersin Native American communities requires anunderstanding of these issues. 30 references.(HE9700786)192Lay Mental Health Counseling:Prospectsand Problems.Form:Journal article.Author:Carkhuff, R.R.Source:Journal of Individual Psychology.24(l):88 93, May 1968.Abstract: The authors analyzed trainingprograms that employ lay personnel. Findingsindicated that after training, lay traineesfunction at levels as high or higher than doprofessional trainees on aspects of interpersonalfunctioning related to positive changes inclients.Interpersonal skills included empathy,respect, genuineness, concreteness, and self disclosure. The evidence suggests that both themeans and the intentions of prospective layhelpers are more humble and honest at thebeginning of training than are the means andintentions of prospective professional helpers.Lay trainees function at lower levels ofempathy, regard, and other facilitativedimensions at the beginning of training than doprofessional trainees. Following the brieftraining programs of lay personnel and theextensive programs of professionals, the initialdiscrepancy is reversed in favor of the layperson.Professional training programs are verycognitively oriented toward developingdiagnostic understanding and research skills.The lay training programs focus on sensitivitytraining, interpersonal skills, and changingpersonal attitude by emphasizing patientinvolvement and action.Professional programs,on the other hand, focus on affecting changesunrelated to counselee or trainee change. Datasuggest that trainers of professional personsfunction below a minimally facilitating level ofinterpersonal functioning, at levels equal to orlower than professional trainees at thebeginning of graduate training. Lay persons,with or without training and/or supervision,have patients who demonstrate change as greator greater than do the patients of professionalpractitioners. The professional helper all toooften focuses upon highly elaborate, highlycognitive treatment systems. The potentialcauses of these findings vary greatly. Theauthor concludes that whatever allows oneindividual to help another is not the sole andexclusive province of professional helpers.Increased use of lay personnel in inpatient andoutpatient treatment should take place. Theauthors suggest an elevation of theprofessional's role to one involving practice,training, supervision, consultation on preferredmodes of treatment, and research. Thedemonstrated efficacy of lay programs hasimplications for professional training.18 references. (HE9700339)135Mental Health193Linking Low Income Families toChildren's Mental Health Services: AnOutcome Study.Form:Journal article.Authors:Koroloff, N.M.; Elliott, D.J.; Koren,RE.; Friesen, B.J.Source:Journal of Emotional and BehavioralDisorders.4(1):2 11, January 1996.Abstract: Researchers evaluated anintervention designed to address barriers thatinterfere with access to children's mental healthservices for low income families. The approachinvolved the use of paraprofessionals calledfamily associates who served as advocates byproviding families with information, emotionalsupport, and help with such barriers as lack oftransportation and lack of child care for otherchildren. The intervention was implemented inthree Oregon counties; four other countiesserved as the control condition. The targetpopulation consisted of families with a childaged 4 to1 8 years who was referred for mentalhealth services through early and periodicscreening, diagnosis, and treatment. Familieswere included if the referred child was not in aninstitutional placement, the caregiver wasinvolved in managing the child's mental healthservices, and the child had attended no morethan three mental health service appointmentsassociated with the referral. The final sampleconsisted of 239 families, 96 of whom receivedthe family associate intervention and 143 ofwhom served as comparison families. Theintervention and comparison groups had similardemographic profiles. Upon referral,participants completed an initial researchinterview. Approximately 3 to 4 months later,they were interviewed again to collectinformation about mental health servicesreceived, satisfaction with those services,barriers to child mental health services, theextent to which the Family Associate helped toovercome the barriers, and changes in thefamily's sense of empowerment. Resultsshowed that the intervention group was morelikely than the comparison group to initiatechild mental health services; however, thegroups did not differ in their rates of attendanceor premature discontinuation of service. Theintervention families showed a modest butsignificant increase in empowerment at posttest.The researchers concluded that the familyassociate intervention can help families initiatechild mental health services and increase