Langone Health on the completion of each of the following phases: Schematic Design, Design Development, Construction Documents, and Construction Administration. Drawings showing as built conditions shall be delivered as part of the Close Out process upon construction completion. 1. Mode of Delivery All project files shall be delivered via BuildFlow, the NYU Langone Health construction document management site. 2. File Submission Requirements  Drawing Files (.dwg) Drawings shall be delivered in DWG format. Each drawing file should shall contain the drawing sheet(s) in AutoCAD Space Mode. All X ref drawings must shall be bound and inserted into the drawings. Files shall be uploaded individually into BuildFlow in DWG format. ZIP files will not be accepted. All 3D and BIM drawings must be convertedshall be exported from BIM in the coarse view setting to 2D compatible DWG files. Prior to conversion, hatching shall be removed and material details shall be unchecked from the materials view. The floor plans shall be delivered in their entirety. Partial or clipped floor plans will not be accepted.  Plotsheet Files (.dwfx / .pdf) Plotsheet files should be generated out of the BIM and/or drawing files in DWFx and/or PDF format. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 48 2023 3. File Standards This subsection establishes the basic file standards and naming conventions that must be used when developing a project using Computer Aided Design (CAD) technology for NYU Langone Health.  Project Identification Number Each project within NYU Langone Health is assigned a unique Project Identification Number, also referred to as the PIM #. At the inception of all projects, the A/E Team must obtain the NYU Langone project ID number from the RED+F Project Manager to support the proper naming of drawing/model files, content and other support files. The PIM # must appear clearly on the drawing sheet(s).  Regulatory Agency Application Numbers The NYC Department of Buildings job number for projects in New York City or the equivalent for projects in municipalities outside of New York City must appear clearly on the drawing sheet(s).  Discipline Codes All drawing/model files, content and support files shall be prefixed with the appropriate Discipline Code (D). Discipline codes in use by NYU Langone Health are in line with the national CAD standards. The most common are listed in the table below: Code Discipline Name Code Discipline Name A Architectural L Landscape C Civil M Mechanical E Electrical P Plumbing FP Fire Protection S Structural  Drawing List Standards Drawing sets shall be organized as described below: A 000 General Information A 100 Floor Plans A 200 Elevations A 300 Exterior Details A 400 Interior Details A 500 Vertical Transportation A 600 Reflected Ceiling Plans A 700 Finish Plans A 800 Schedules Note: Consultant drawings should follow the same format (i.e. M 000 General Information, M 100 Floor Plans, etc.). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 49 2023  File Naming Standards All electronic project information should be named following the nomenclature outlined in these guidelines. This will ensure that projects can be accurately maintained during production, archived at each milestone and retrieved for future use. Drawing Files (.dwg) Drawing Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number followed by a dash, the Sheet Number, underscore and the Sheet Name. The filename should take the form of: PIM# Sheet Number_Sheet Name.format As an example, an Architecture Drawing File would be named as follows: 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.dwg Model Files (.rvt) Model Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number followed by a dash, and a Discipline Code. If multiple models are being submitted for a single discipline you may use a level 2 designator as outlined in the national CAD standards. The filename should take the form of: PIM# D.format As an example, an Architecture Revit Model File would be named as follows: 10662 A.rvt Plotsheet Files (.dwfx / .pdf) Plotsheet Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number, followed by a dash, the Sheet Number, underscore and the Sheet Name. The filename should take the form of: PIM# Sheet Number_Sheet Name.format As an example, an Architecture Plotsheet File would be named as follows: 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.dwfx 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.pdf NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 50 2023 CAD LAYER STANDARDS Category RED+F Layer Name Description RED+F CAD Color RED+F CAD Lineweight RED+F CAD Linetype Architectural A CURB Curbs for Equipment 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A DOOR Doors 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A DOOR IDEN Door number, hardware group, etc. 4 cyan Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR EVTR Elevator cars and equipment 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR GRATE Grating 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN ROOM Room numbers 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN PRE EPIC Pre EPIC Room numbers 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN TEXT Room names, targets, occupants, etc. 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR SHFT Shafts 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR SIGN Signage 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR STRS Stair treads, escalators, ladders, level changes, ramps, pits, depressions 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A ROOF Roof 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A WALL EXTR Exterior Building Wall 5 blue Default Continuous Architectural A WALL INTR Interior Building Wall 3 green Default Continuous Architectural A WNDW Windows, curtain walls, glazed partitions 4 cyan Default Continuous General DEFPOINTS Defpoints 7 white Default Continuous Electrical E LITE Lighting 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E LITE EXIT Exit lighting 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E POWR WALL Power wall outlets and receptacles 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E SAFETY CRDRDR Card reader 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E SAFETY ICDB Intercom/door buzzer system 3 green Default Continuous General G ANNO SYMB Symbols 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TEXT General Text 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TTLB Border and Title Block 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TTLB TEXT Border and Title Block Text 7 white Default Continuous General G LOGO Title Block Logo 94,56,150 Default Continuous General G SCALE Scale 7 white Default Continuous General G VP Viewport 7 white Default Continuous Interior I EQPM FIX Fixed Equipment, except HVAC 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I EQPM MOVE Moveable equipment 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I FURN Furniture 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I MILLWORK Cabinetry / Casement 6 magenta Default Continuous Landscaping L SITE Site improvements 4 cyan Default Continuous Mechanical M HVAC EQPM Mechanical equip. (chiller, boiler etc.) 6 magenta Default Continuous Plumbing P FIXT Plumbing fixtures, toilets, sinks 6 magenta Default Continuous Plumbing P SAFETY SHWSH Emergency shower and eye wash 6 magenta Default Continuous Structural S COLS Columns 2 yellow Default Continuous Structural S GRID Column grid 2 yellow Default Center Telecomm T JACK Data/telephone jacks 3 green Default Continuous NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 51 2023 BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Where so stipulated by Services Order, RFQ, or RFP, Building Information Modeling (BIM) shall be implemented throughout the project lifecycle. In these documents the A/E Team will find a list of intended BIM Uses requested by NYU Langone Health. The A/E Team is expected to capture these requirements, at minimum, in the project’s BIM Execution Plan. 1. BIM Execution Plan The A/E Team shall develop a BIM Execution Plan in the Schematic Design Phase and maintain and implement the BIM Execution Plan throughout the various phases of the project. The BIM Execution Plan shall include but not be limited to:  Plan Overview  Project Goals/BIM Uses The A/E Team shall identify BIM Uses that aid in the development and delivery of a project’s scope of work including but not limited to: Existing Condition Modeling Design Authoring Design Review Drawing Generation Phase Planning 3D Coordination  Organizational BIM Roles  BIM Process Mapping  Information Exchange  Collaboration Procedure  Quality Control  Technical Needs  Model Structure  Project Deliverables The A/E Team shall provide a list of project specific BIM deliverables organized by project phase. Appropriate Model Levels of Development shall be identified for each deliverable listed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 52 2023 2. BIM Uses The following list of BIM uses shall be used on NYU Langone Health RED+F projects. They are broken up into those provided as Basic Services for all projects designated to be delivered using BIM, and those uses that may be additionally requested in the Services Order, RFQ or RFP. BIM uses shall be assessed and recorded in the BIM Execution Plan to be provided by the A/E Team to NYU Langone RED+F for each project. BASIC SERVICES BIM Use Goal Programming  Include NYU Langone space programming data and validate program meets requirements. Existing Conditions Modeling  Create existing conditions models within project scope for areas to be surveyed or field verified prior to commencing design. Design Authoring  All projects to use Autodesk Revit BIM authoring application. Drawing Generation (Drawing Production)  Derive all drawings from Autodesk Revit BIM authoring application during all phases of a project. Design Reviews  Visually review design solutions in 3d or virtually; validate end user design requirements; evaluate alternatives. 3D Coordination  Eliminate conflicts prior to construction, reduce RFI’s, and eliminate field condition change orders. Field and Management Tracking  NYU Langone Health to make available the use of BIM 360 during construction administration. ADDITIONAL SERVICES BIM Use Goal Cost Estimation (Quantity Take off)  Early master planning and design cost estimation based on gross sq. ft. rentable, lease, etc. using historical cost data.  Quantify model objects, and track cost and cost changes during design and construction. Phase Planning (4D Modeling)  Preliminary phasing studies, project phasing, master planning, linked to schedules for sequencing, visual studies.  Project phasing during design and construction, for visualization, presentation, design consultant/construction schedules, and construction logistics. Site Analysis  Site studies, building orientation, real estate acquisitions, master planning. Engineering Analysis  Engineering analysis tools and processes to use BIM + BIM data for analysis. (Structural, Mechanical, etc.) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 53 2023 Energy Analysis  Specific engineering analysis on energy use. Validating BIM and design performance. Lighting Analysis  Optimize lighting analysis design solutions. Indoor (artificial) vs outdoor (natural) light. Sustainability / LEED Evaluation  Appropriately categorize and identify all sustainability criteria; NYU Langone Health to be able to distinguish building objects etc. impacting sustainability goals. Code Validation  Code validation; design consultant to validate fire and life safety code compliance, egress, travel distances, etc. Site Utilization Planning  Project phasing during construction, for visualization, presentation, construction logistics, site planning, and schedules. Construction System Design (Virtual Mockup)  Construction system design, required planning for logistics / workflow (i.e. placing large equipment, MRI machines, etc.) Digital Fabrication  Design to fabrication 3D Control and Planning (Digital Layout) Record Modeling  NYU Langone Health to require record model of as built conditions to include data and documentation necessary in support of FM/OM.  NYU Langone Health to use and maintain record model for FM/OM. Building (Preventative) Maintenance Scheduling  Update and maintain BIM in alignment with Building Maintenance Scheduling. Building Systems Analysis  NYU Langone Health to analyze and compare performance of building systems to design intent. Asset Management  NYU Langone Health to link FM/OM asset data to BIM. Space Management and Tracking  NYU Langone Health to integrate BIM space data and floor plans with IWMS Planon. Disaster Planning  NYU Langone Health to leverage BIM in disaster planning and recovery. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 54 2023 SPACE PLANNING RED+F has developed this subsection based on space planning layouts that we have found to be successful at NYU Langone Health. Our goal in providing this information is to streamline the design process by providing the Architect and Interior Designer pertinent information they can use during the programming and planning phases of a project. The information provided includes: 1. Floor Area Definitions 2. Planning Definitions 3. Formulas and Ratios 4. Space Types by Staff Title 5. Typical Room Sizes and Furniture Layouts This information does not relieve the Architect or Interior Designer of designing a project that is code compliant and appropriate to the needs of the user. The Architect and Interior Designer may suggest other room and furniture layouts if they believe the proposed layouts support our mission, design principles, and the design intent of the project. 1. Floor Area Definitions The Architect and Interior Designer shall provide floor area information to NYU Langone based on the following definitions:  Gross Square Feet (GSF) Floor area measured to the outside face of a building’s exterior walls. GSF shall include the exterior wall thickness and all vertical penetrations (i.e. mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and elevator shafts, stairwells, etc.), as well as basements and garages.  Gross Departmental Square Feet (GDSF) The floor area for each department shall be measured from the outside face of a building’s exterior walls, the centerline of shared walls and to the corridor side of corridor walls. Building and Floor Common Elements shall be apportioned based on the percentage of the floor occupied by each department. In cases where the department occupies an entire floor of a building the GSF shall be used.  Usable Square Feet (USF) Gross floor area less Building Common Elements. For multi tenant/department floors, Floor Common Elements shall be apportioned based on the percentage of the floor occupied by each tenant/department. (per REBNY)  Net Square Feet (NSF) The area occupied by each identified program space measured to the centerline of interior partitions. Examples of such spaces include individual workspaces (i.e. workstations and offices), dedicated support spaces (i.e. conference rooms), shared support spaces (i.e. shared copier rooms, break rooms, etc.) and special mission critical spaces (i.e. exam rooms, laboratories, etc.). Note: Building Common Elements, Floor Common Elements, and primary and secondary circulation are not included. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 55 2023  Building Common Elements The building core and common elements include portions of a building that serve all tenants. Such items, inclusive of their nominal 4” enclosing walls, include equipment/utility rooms (i.e. mechanical, electrical and telecom rooms serving the entire building), HVAC shafts, telecom / electrical distribution shafts, elevator shafts, public stairwells, etc. (per REBNY)  Floor Common Elements The floor common elements include portions of a floor that serve all tenants of that floor. Such items, not inclusive of their enclosing walls, include corridors, common toilets, shared supply rooms, etc. (per REBNY) 2. Planning Definitions The Architect and Interior Designer shall provide planning information/calculations to NYU Langone based on the following definitions:  Max. Allowable Occupancy Maximum occupancy of a space as calculated per the Building Code(s). Note: The A/E Team needs to calculate the maximum allowable occupancy within a space per the Building Code(s) based on several factors including but not limited to egress stair widths, exit door widths, plumbing fixture counts, etc.  Workplace Seating (WPS) Seating designated for use by a single employee. This can be located within an open area or in an enclosed room as described below. Total workplace seating represents the total number of employees in a particular department. o Open Workplace Seating Seating designated for use by a single employee in an open area. This is a permanent seat such as a: Workstation Bench Reception o Enclosed Workplace Seating Seating designated for use by a single employee in an enclosed room such as a: Private Office  Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors. This can be located within an open area or in an enclosed room as described below: o Open Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors in an open area. Examples of such seating include: Waiting Areas Pantries Open Collaboration areas o Enclosed Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors in an enclosed room. Examples of such seating include: Quiet Rooms Discussion Rooms Conference Rooms Training Rooms Multi Purpose Rooms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 56 2023 3. Formulas and Ratios The following information is intended to assist the Architect and Interior Designer during the planning and programming phases. The Architect and Interior Designer must also factor in circulation and support spaces (i.e. copy rooms, filing rooms, storage closets, lactation rooms, etc.) into their design.  USF = GSF (Building Common Elements)  USF / WPS = USF ÷ Total # Anticipated WPS Note: On average Administrative spaces should result in a USF / WPS of 100 150 sf.  Ratio of Open WPS = # of Open WPS ÷ Total # of WPS Note: On average Administrative spaces should result in a Ratio of Open WPS of 75 .  Ratio of Workplace Seats to Collaboration Seats: Note: Administrative spaces have the following approximate ratios based on seating types for a department: Workplace Seating : Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.6to1 : 1 Encl. Workplace Seating : Open Workplace Seating =1 : 2.8to1 : 5.4 Encl. Collaboration Seating : Open Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.3to1 : 0.4 Workplace Seating : Enclosed Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.4to1 : 0.6 Workplace Seating : Open Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.2to1 : 0.5 Workplace Seating : Pantry Seating =1 : 0.2to1 : 0.3 Open Workplace Seating : Lockers =1 : 1to 1 : 1.5 Workplace Seating : Waiting =1 : 0.05to1 : 0.1Legend: USF = Usable Square Feet GSF = Gross Square Feet WPS = Workplace Seats NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 57 2023 4. Space Types by Staff Title The following chart represents the square footage requirements for typical work spaces as they relate to staff titles: STAFF TITLE / POSITION SPACE REQUIREMENTS Academic / Clinical / Research Admin / Hospital OPs Type Target Floor Area Interior Dimensions Department Chair SVP Extra Large Private Office 164 160 170 SF 10’ 0” x 16’ 5” Vice Chair Large Private Office 125 120 130 SF 10’ 0” x 12’ 6” Director / Wet Lab Research Faculty Medium Private Office 100 110 SF 10’ 0” x 10’ 0” Research Faculty Private Office 85 95 SF Faculty / MD / PI VP / Director Small Private Office 80 85 SF 8’ 0” x 10’ 0” Fellows / Staff Manager / Staff Workstation 3635 40 SF 6’ 0” x 6’ 0” Residents / Post Docs Admin Staff / Consultant Bench Seating Varies 5 6 LF 5 6 LF Notes: 1. Target floor areas are approximate. 2. Spaces can be modified to fit within site conditions including the structural grid and building core. 5. Typical Room Sizes and Furniture Layouts The pages that follow show typical room sizes and furniture layouts for various space types. that we have found to be successful. The overall square footage of spaces must be maintained but actual dimensions can be modified to fit within the project site conditions including the structural grid and building core. The space types included are: A. Reception Desk A (Non Clinical) QR. Large Conference Room (24 person) B. Reception Desk B (Clinical) RS. Extra Large Conference Room (34 person) C. Reception Desk C (Clinical) ST. Training Room CD. Financial Counselor Desk (Clinical) TU. Open Collaboration DE. Self Check in Equipment UV. Enclosed Collaboration EF. Exam Room A (Side by Side Config.) VW. Multipurpose Room FG. Exam Room B (Interlocking Config.) WX. Lecture Hall (150 person) GH Bench Seating XY. Small Pantry (25 person) HI. Workstation YZ. Medium Pantry (50 person) IJ. Workstation Configurations ZAA. Large Pantry (75 person) JK. Small Private Office AABB. Lactation Room KL. Medium Private Office BBCC. Wellness / Quiet Room LM. Large Private Office CCDD. Digital Regulatory & MN. Extra Large Private Office Departmental Signage NO. Discussion Room DDEE. Device Alignment OP. Small Conference Room (8 person) EE. Kronos Timeclock Equipment PQ. Medium Conference Room (12 person) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 58 2023 A. RECEPTION DESK A (NON CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29” H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Task Chair F5 Box/Box/File Pedestal F6 Overhead Storage F7 Counter (34” H) w/ base cabinets F8 Recycling (Paper only) Equipment EQ1 Printer/Copier Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name S4 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 3. IT requirements and equipment to be coordinated with MCIT. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 59 2023 A. RECEPTION DESK A (NON CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29” H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Stainless Steel Trim Equipment Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 3. IT requirements and equipment to be coordinated with MCIT. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 60 2023 B. RECEPTION DESK B (CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29” H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Task Chair F5 Guest Chair F6 Privacy Screen F7 Lateral File w/ counter above F8 Box/Box/File Pedestal F9 Storage, Cabinets or Shelving (where possible) F10 Recycling (Confidential Paper only) Equipment EQ1 Printer/Copier EQ2 EPIC Printer Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name S4 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate electrical/IT requirements with MCIT. 3. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 61 2023 B. RECEPTION DESK B (CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29” H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Base Cabinets F5 Cabinets or Shelving (where possible) F6 Stainless Steel Trim F7 Printer Stand w/ Storage (Built in or Freestanding) Equipment EQ1 Intake Equipment EQ2 Self Check in Equipment EQ2 EPIC Printer Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate electrical/IT requirements with MCIT. 3. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. 6. If EPIC printer is not full height as shown, provide storage below. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 62 2023 RECEPTION DESK C (CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29" H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Task Chair F5 Guest Chair F6 Privacy Screen F7 Lateral File F8 Box/Box/File Pedestal F9 Storage, Cabinets or Shelving (where possible) F10 Recycling (Confidential Paper only) Equipment EQ1 Printer/Copier EQ2 EPIC Printer Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name S4 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate electrical/IT requirements with MCIT. 3. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM and Furniture Dealer. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 63 2023 RECEPTION DESK C (CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Feature Wall (Wood, Backlit Glass, etc.) F2 Worksurface (29” H) F3 Transaction Counter (42” H) F4 Base Cabinets F5 Storage, Cabinets or Shelving (where possible) F6 Stainless Steel Trim Equipment EQ1 EPIC Printer EQ2 Self Check in Equipment EQ3 Intake Equipment Signage S1 Logo S2 Donor Recognition S3 Department Name Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate electrical/IT requirements with MCIT. 3. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM and Furniture Dealer. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. 6. If EPIC printer is not full height as shown, provide storage below. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 64 2023 C. FINANCIAL COUNSELOR DESK (CLINICAL) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: Varies Furniture & Accessories F1 Worksurface (29" H) F2 Task Chair F3 Guest Chair F4 Privacy Screen F5 Lateral File w/ counter above F6 Box/Box/File Pedestal F7 Recycling (Confidential Paper only) Equipment EQ1 EPIC Printer (below counter) Signage S1 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate electrical/IT requirements with MCIT. 3. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 65 2023 D. SELF CHECK IN EQUIPMENT Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: As Shown Furniture & Accessories F1 Counter (34” H) F2 Grommet F3 Removeable Panel to conceal wire management F4 Millwork Apron Equipment EQ1 Self Check in Equipment EQ2 Power/Data (1 outlet of each type is required per kiosk assembly directly below counter) Signage Notes 1. Check in equipment shall be located between the department entry and the reception desk. Proximity to the reception desk is preferred. 2. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 3. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate IT requirements with MCIT. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 66 2023 E. EXAM ROOM A (SIDE BY SIDE CONFIGURATION) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: As Shown Furniture & Accessories F1 Exam Table / Chair F1 Clinician’s Stool F2 Guest Chair F3 Millwork / Casework F4 Paper Towel Dispenser F5 Soap Dispenser F6 Purell Dispenser F7 Tan Step Recep. (trash only) F8 Sharps Container F6 Red Step Recep. (RMW only) F9 2 x Coat Hooks F10 Privacy Curtain (if required) Plumbing Fixtures P1 Faucet P2 Sink Equipment EQ1 Exam Table / Chair EQ2 Computer Station (Wall Mounted / WOW) EQ3 Diagnostic Equipment EQ4 Scale EQ5 Stadiometer Signage S1 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate IT requirements with MCIT. 3. 3. Coordinate medical equipment with Clinical Engineering. and clinical tan and red step receptacles with Building Services/Clinical Engineering/Environmental Services. 3.4. Mount sharps container with opening at highest allowable ADA compliant height. 4. If required, coordinate privacy curtain with RCP. 5. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 67 2023 F. EXAM ROOM B (INTERLOCKING CONFIGURATION) Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: As Shown Furniture & Accessories F1 Exam Table / Chair F1 Clinician’s Stool F2 Guest Chair F3 Millwork / Casework F4 Paper Towel Dispenser F5 Soap Dispenser F6 Purell Dispenser F7 Tan Step Recep. (trash only) F8 Sharps Container F6 Red Step Recep. (RMW only) F9 2 x Coat Hooks F10 Privacy Curtain (if required) Plumbing Fixtures P1 Faucet P2 Sink Equipment EQ1 Exam Table / Chair EQ2 Computer Station (Wall Mounted / WOW) EQ3 Diagnostic Equipment EQ4 Scale EQ5 Stadiometer Signage S1 Room Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Refer to the NYU Langone Health Hardware Standards and coordinate IT requirements with MCIT. 4. 3. Coordinate medical equipment with Clinical Engineering. and clinical tan and red step receptacles with Building Services/Clinical Engineering/Environmental Services.. 4.5. Mount sharps container with opening at highest allowable ADA compliant height. 4. If required, coordinate privacy curtain with RCP. 5. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 68 2023 G. BENCH SEATING Size Area: Varies Interior Dimensions: 5 6 LF Furniture & Accessories F1 Worksurface (29” H) F2 Personal Storage (optional) F3 Desktop Privacy Screen F4 Task Chair F5 Task Light (optional) Equipment EQ1 Monitor EQ2 CPU EQ3 Keyboard EQ4 Mouse EQ5 Telephone Signage S1 Desk Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 3. IT requirements and equipment to be coordinated with MCIT. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 69 2023 H. WORKSTATION Size Target Floor Area: 36 35 40 sf Approx. Dimensions: 6’ 0” X 6’ 0” Furniture & Accessories F1 Worksurface (29” H) / Sit to Stand F2 Wardrobe (if lockers are not provided elsewhere) F3 Worksurface (29” H) w/ storage below, as req’d F4 Grommet F5 Tackable Surface F6 Task Chair F7 Task Light (optional) F8 Monitor Arm (optional) Equipment Signage S1 Desk Identification Notes 1. Refer to other subsections of these Design Guidelines for further information. 2. Coordinate power/data infeed, receptacle/grommet quantities and locations and grommet locations with RED+F PM, MCIT, and NYULH Furniture Dealer. 3. IT requirements and equipment to be coordinated with MCIT. 4. All signage locations are for reference only and are to be determined at the site by RED+F’s Signage / Wayfinding Group. 5. Coordinate knee clearances with equipment / devices below worksurface. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 70 2023 I. WORKSTATION CONFIGURATIONS Size Furniture & Accessories Equipment Signage Notes NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 71 2023 J. SMALL PRIVATE OFFICE Size Target Floor Area: