prevent my child from becoming overweight”). Parents of 6 and 12 month olds had an increased odds of choosing “strongly agree” to these statements (3 fold and 10 fold, respectively); differences in self efficacy was especially strong in parents of 12 month olds. Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone First opened in 2002, the Seventh Avenue site (formerly known as the Brooklyn Chinese Family Health Center) is part of FHC’s network of federally qualified health centers affiliated with NYU Langone Health. It was one of the first medical facilities to open in Sunset Park to serve the needs of medically underserved Asian Americans in the area. The site serves both the medical, rehabilitation, and dental needs of the community, with over 28,000 patient visits per year, including over 6,000 pediatric patient visits. The team of health care providers includes family medicine providers, pediatricians, and an Ob/Gyn. The majority of family seen at the clinic are recent immigrants from Fuzhou, in southern China. 42 An abstract based on the evaluation component of the program was accepted for a platform presentation at the Pediatric Academic Societies meeting (considered the premier annual national pediatric research meeting), and was presented at the American Academy of Pediatrics Presidential Plenary in May 2018; a manuscript describing the findings is now in progress. At CBWCHC, there have also been annual meetings with health care providers to keep them engaged and review core concepts related to the delivery of the Greenlight intervention. During these meetings, updates were provided to providers regarding findings from the program evaluation to date and feedback was obtained to inform future program improvements (each meeting involved participation of 7 10 physicians and 5 9 ancillary staff (e.g. health educators, nurses, nutritionists). Over the past year, all the Greenlight booklets have also been updated to incorporate the most recent American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations (in particular, related to recent updates to screen time and juice recommendations). The Simplified and Traditional Chinese booklets were also reviewed and revised for accuracy, clarity, and readability. The main Greenlight website was launched in July 2018 (https://www.greenlight program.org/), and houses the Greenlight booklets as well as additional resources for parents, including an interactive activity that allows parents to identify questions and review answers related to diet and nutrition related topics. The Chinese version of the website is currently being built, with a plan to launch in spring 2019. Plans As part of the 2019 2021 CSP, we plan to reach over 2000 children and parents/families, by continuing to implement the Greenlight early child obesity intervention at the Manhattan Chinatown site of the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center and the Family Health Center’s Seventh Avenue site in Brooklyn, delivering the intervention to underserved, low income Chinese American families through health care providers at well child visits in the primary care Participating families have been enthusiastic about the program:  Many families at CBWCHC return to their native country within the first year of their child's birth. Some of these families have requested to bring whole sets of booklets (core & supplements) back with them to help maintain healthier eating habits and activity for their child.  A few primarily English speaking parents have asked for booklets in both Chinese and English to facilitate the sharing of Greenlight information with older family members at home; these family members are often the ones who take care of the child when the child's parents are at work.  Parents who are participating in Greenlight have recommended the program to others in the waiting room. 43 setting, and through health educators as part of the associated waiting room program. This will include continued, routine engagement and training of providers at these sites (training/informational sessions annually at minimum, and more frequently, if needed). We will also continue to provide Greenlight materials to CBWHC’s two Flushing, Queens sites. In addition, we plan to enhance the reach of Greenlight through technology enhancements, including exploring how to promote the use of and expand Greenlight website resources, as well as leveraging social media platforms to make Greenlight messages accessible to more families. We will also explore implementation of the Greenlight program, including the waiting room component, at other Family Health Centers at NYU Langone sites, beginning with the Sunset Park location (in years two and three), which serves a predominantly low income Hispanic population. Our Greenlight materials are already culturally adapted and translated for use with Spanish speaking families, and this will allow us to further expand the reach of the Greenlight messages to another population known to be at risk for the development of obesity in early childhood. The intermediate goals of our project relate to improving parent/family knowledge, attitudes and practices related to their child’s diet and physical activity (e.g. less juice/sugary snack/junk food consumption, increased physical activity, decreased screen time), and increasing parents’ confidence/empowerment related to the care of their child, with a long term goal of reducing child weight trajectories and child overweight/obesity. We also seek to increase staff/provider knowledge and engagement, as well as improve provider use of recommended health communication practices during well child visits. Over the upcoming 3 years, we will continue to monitor delivery of Greenlight materials at the CBWCHC site, which is being documented in the electronic health record system, including provider/health educator counseling, booklet delivery, tangible tool provision, and goal setting; weight/height data is also being tracked in the EHR. At the CBWCHC site, we will complete the follow up of the cohort of 200 parent/child dyads (previously enrolled as infants and followed at their 6, 12, 24, and 36 month well child visits) during Years 1 and 2. This will allow us to look at improvements in child diet and activity related knowledge, attitudes, behaviors, and outcomes, as well as parent confidence/self efficacy, at the time points in which the children have reached 2 and 3 years of age. We will continue to track provider/staff knowledge, engagement and satisfaction during this time. During Year 1, recognizing that the cohort will be completing their 24 and 36 month assessments and that the program evaluation will be ending, we will begin to explore alternate methods to track child diet and activity related outcomes, with a plan to build this into the health educator/waiting room program in Years 2 and 3, so that surveillance at the site can continue in a less intensive fashion. Over the 3 years, however, we will continue to track child BMI Z scores and overweight status using data collected from the EHR, allowing us to assess the impact of the intervention on rates of overweight/obesity. At the Seventh Avenue site, during Year 1, we will enroll a new cohort of 200 parent/child pairs that we will follow at their 6, 12, 24, and 36 month well child visits. This will allow us to evaluate the program in this new setting, which serves predominantly low income immigrants from Fuzhou, in southern China, an especially vulnerable population. Our program evaluation will allow us to look at child diet and activity related knowledge, attitudes, behaviors, and outcomes in this unique group; we will also obtain height/weight data from the EHR so that we can look at program impacts on weight status over the 3 years of the Community Service Plan. 44 Providers and staff will also be surveyed at the start and end of the 3 years to assess knowledge, engagement, and satisfaction. We will also explore the feasibility of tracking delivery of the Greenlight program and Greenlight materials in the electronic health record. E. REACH FAR Brooklyn: Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn Asian Americans experience a large burden from cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension and diabetes, with substantial variation in prevalence rates across subgroups, particularly South Asian populations. Certain Asian American subgroups also report poor nutritional practices, further elevating CVD risk. Studies have demonstrated low medication adherence in some Asian American subgroups, a critical component of diabetes and hypertension management. Each of these risk factors is further exacerbated by barriers to accessing culturally and linguistically appropriate care and tailored health information for Asian Americans. Similar risk factors have been documents in Arab American communities, though there is a paucity of research on this population due to limitations in local and federal data collection race and ethnicity standards. Although diabetes and hypertension prevention and self management programs that enable lifestyle changes and enhance linkage to healthcare have been shown to be an effective method of promoting prevention and control of these chronic conditions, there is a lack of culturally tailored programs to promote diabetes and hypertension prevention and management and existing programs are limited in their sustainability and scalability. Our program, Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn (REACH FAR Brooklyn) recognizes the important role that faith and community based organizations can play in improving the health of immigrants and racial and ethnic minority populations. REACH FAR Brooklyn partners with mosques, social service agencies, and primary care settings in Brooklyn neighborhoods with substantial concentrations of South Asian and Arab American communities to improve cardiovascular risk factors (including obesity, hypertension control, and diabetes management) and promote healthy eating. Specifically, we:  Enhance and promote systematic and sustainable linkages to culturally and linguistically tailored community and clinically based resources to improve diabetes and hypertension prevention and management in South Asian and Arab communities;  Implement reinforcing and integrated evidence based approaches to improve access to environments promoting nutrition in South Asian and Arab communities by introducing education and changes to communal food practices in faith settings; and 45  Enhance City wide campaigns on by disseminating culturally tailored communications and education on CVD risk reduction to Brooklyn South Asian and Arab communities. Progress and impact REACH FAR Brooklyn builds upon our team’s success in implementing culturally tailored community clinical linkage program for Asian Americans and other immigrant communities over the past several years. With support from the Centers for Disease Control, REACH FAR has worked with community partners (United Sikhs, DREAM Coalition, Korean Community Services, and Kalusugan Coalition) and 12 faith based organizations to increase access to healthy food and beverage options and deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate health coaching for management and prevention of high blood pressure in Asian American communities. As part of this effort, REACH FAR has adapted Keep on Track, an evidence based train the trainer program developed by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, to screen, monitor, and provide counseling to people with high blood pressure. REACH FAR activities are supported by a comprehensive social marketing campaign to raise awareness of hypertension prevention and treatment and to promote hypertension screening events at faith based and other organizations. REACH FAR has also culturally adapted and disseminated materials on hypertension and nutrition created by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Centers for Disease Control Million Hearts initiative and distributed these materials in a variety of community venues such as health care settings, grocery stores, restaurants, and faith based and community based organizations. As a result of these efforts, Keep on Track has been implemented in 18 faith based organizations and CBO settings across NYC, and established a trained cohort of 19 faith based organizations leaders and CHWs in these settings. Additionally, the REACH FAR Coalition has worked closely with NYCDOHMH to scale and implement diabetes prevention and diabetes management program in South Asian communities over the past four years, offering a prime opportunity to enhance referral to and support sustainability mechanisms for existing programs As part of the Community Service Plan, beginning in 2015, we partnered with two mosques on the Lower East Side, Manhattan Assafa Islamic Center and Madina Masjid and two mosques 46 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn Muslim Community Center and Jame Mohammadia to extend the REACH FAR program. Specifically, our efforts were designed to improve blood pressure control and promote healthy eating using a three pronged approach: (1) implementing the Keep on Track program in mosques within our CSP’s catchment area; (2) implementing nutritional strategies, including education and changes to communal food practices; and (3) providing culturally tailored communications and education. Assafa has a total of 1500 congregants and average weekly attendance at Friday Jummah prayers of 250 congregants. Madina Masjid has a congregation of 2000 and average weekly attendance at Friday Jummah prayers of 400 congregants. Muslim Community Center has a congregation size of 500 and average weekly attendance at Friday Jumma prayer is about 200. Jame Mohammadia has a congregation size of 200 and average attendance at Friday Jumma prayer is about 100. To implement the Keep On Track program, REACH FAR’s community health workers trained 24 volunteers from these four mosques. These 24 volunteers are now providing free monthly blood pressure screenings and basic hypertension reduction and management strategies to the mosque congregants. Close to 400 mosque congregants received free blood pressure screening and consultations from the Keep on Track volunteers. From all four mosques, a total of 207 Keep on Track baseline surveys were collected. Participants were followed up at 6 months at all four sites and 12 months follow ups were conducted at Madina Masjid and Assafa Islamic Center, with ongoing 12 month data collected at MCC and Jame Mohammadia to be collected in February, 2019. Preliminary results from baseline and 12 month Keep on Track data at Assafa and Madina (n=25) show that mean systolic blood pressure (SBP) decreased from 128.8 at baseline to 120.2 at 12 months (p=0.027). Mean diastolic blood pressure (DBP) decreased from 79.0 at baseline to 77.3 at 12 months (p=0.415). BP control (using cutoff of 140 for SBP and 90 for DBP) was at baseline and at 12 months (p=0.508). Health related self efficacy (range of 1 4, 4=highest self efficacy) also increased between baseline and 12 month follow up; the mean score increased from 3.46 to 3.74 (p=0.002). The program has also implemented nutrition strategies at all four mosques:  During the month of Ramadan, REACH FAR community health workers conducted six nutrition workshops, reaching about 1,000 congregants, where they discussed easy ways of adopting healthy foods;  Program staff held more than 50 fruit distribution events at these sites, as a way to introduce different foods and to interest people in the program;  Staff provided individual counseling on healthy eating and distributed healthy messages; and 47  Culturally tailored health materials such as approximately 250 plate planners, and 80 Keep on Track booklets were distributed. Mosque leaders warmly hosted the events and provided assistance throughout. A total of 153 cross sectional surveys were collected from four mosque sites at baseline; to date, a total of 97 follow up surveys have been collected from two sites with remaining follow up surveys will be collected by May, 2019. Survey participants are predominantly men (), reflecting the demographics of the mosques’ congregations. Preliminary results found improvements in self reported measures related to health and healthy food availability. At baseline, 28. participants responded “very good” or “excellent” to the question “How healthy is your overall diet”, and at the 12 month follow up, 32. responded “very good” or “excellent” (p=0.637). At baseline, 13. of the respondents agreed with the question “It is difficult to choose healthy food options served at my mosque,” while at follow up, 8. agreed (p=0.298). For the question “The meals at my mosque do not serve healthy options,” at baseline, 21. agreed with this statement, and at follow up, 8. agreed (p=0.021). Additionally, at baseline, 83. reported that fruit was always or usually available, compared to 89. at 12 month follow up (p=0.297). As a result of congregants’ enthusiastic response to our monthly fruit distribution events, Madina Masjid is now sponsoring free fruits on a Friday each month. We plan to encourage the other three mosques to follow this example by continuing and sustaining this programmatic piece. Recognizing that program participants face an array of health issues and barriers, REACH FAR staff have connected congregants to community resources as well as providing the following services directly:  Health insurance enrollment; → A total of six health insurance information and outreach events held at the mosques and about 250 members received health insurance related information. 12 people were enrolled into NY State of Health Insurance Marketplace by the staff members who are also certified IPA/Navigators  Smoking/tobacco use cessation; → One of the staff members received training on smoking cessation assistance and provided direct assistance to mosque members who smoke.  Diabetes prevention and control activities and group exercise sessions. → Staff led periodic group physical activity sessions at the mosques as well as diabetes management workshops. The program activities and health information were disseminated through two ethnic media newspapers. Each newspaper has about 10,000 weekly circulations. In addition, through their 48 own social media channels, two of the four mosques disseminated information, reaching about 10,000 viewers. Plans Building upon the success of Keep on Track implementation through REACH FAR and our previous CSP supported efforts, in year one of this Community Service Plan, REACH FAR Brooklyn will work with the two additional mosques in Brooklyn. Brooklyn Islamic Center is one of the largest mosques in Brooklyn, providing religious services for over 1,500 predominantly South Asian congregants per week. The mosque provides Koranic classes, a youth leadership program, monthly family gatherings, and social and spiritual services. On a Friday Jummah prayer, it has an attendance of about 250 congregants. We will also work with Darul Jannah Jame Masjid, which has a congregation size of about 1000, with about 200 people attending Friday Jummah prayer. In years two and three, we plan to extend the reach of the program by engaging two additional mosques serving the South Asian and Middle Eastern community: Al Aman Masjid and Baitul Jannah Masjid. Working with mosque leadership, we will identify a health champion or committee, administer a baseline survey and organizational assessment and then collaboratively develop a plan to: (1) introduce policies and practices regarding serving healthy foods during communal meals or enhancing existing menus to incorporate healthy meal options (e.g., lower fat dairy products, serving brown rice); (2) implement a volunteer led blood pressure screening program (using the Keep on Track model); and (3) support program efforts with a communication strategy to inform community members about program activities and to increase awareness of the risk of cardiovascular disease. All program elements will be monitored to track progress, fidelity and satisfaction, as well as behavior change. We also plan to build on a related program: the DREAM Initiative, a National Institute of Health funded program that is testing the effectiveness of a culturally tailored community health worker intervention to improve diabetes prevention and management outcomes in South Asian communities. Five of the 20 participating community based primary care practices are located in Brooklyn, serving more than 5,000 patients with diabetes or pre diabetes. The initiative is guided by input from community based organizations in Brooklyn, including Council of People’s Organizations, serving 13,000 primarily South Asian clients annually; Arab American Family Support and Resource Center, serving 20,000 clients annually; and Bangladeshi American Community Development and Youth Services, serving 7,500 clients annually. Our plan over the next three years is to increase linkages to evidence based diabetes prevention and management programs by: 1) increasing referral from faith based organizations to existing culturally tailored diabetes prevention and management programs offered in community 49 settings in Brooklyn; and 2) in partnership with DOHMH, training faith based leaders and CHWs to implement these tailored programs in faith based organizations and CBO settings where current programming does not exist. In the first year, we will:  Conduct an assessment and environmental scan of existing diabetes prevention and management program tailored for the South Asian and Arab communities currently offered in Brooklyn;  Develop a referral network to diabetes prevention and management classes including those offered by DREAM Initiative CHWs; and  Offer culturally tailored nutrition and physical activity demonstrations and videos at CBO and faith based sites. During Years 2 we will establish a new diabetes prevention or management program in at least one new site in Brooklyn. In Year 3, we will disseminate information about available program through ongoing outreach efforts. IV. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children A. ParentChild+ The two critical aspects of young children’s early literacy social emotional development and language development are challenged when a child lives in a home environment that is stressful, unpredictable, or unstimulating. The ParentChild+ (PC+ formerly known as the Parent Child Home Program), a national, evidence based early literacy, parenting and school readiness program serves low income immigrant families in Sunset Park. PC+ makes a significant difference in the lives of in need young children and their families by:  Building positive parent child verbal and non verbal interaction;  Developing and promoting positive parenting skills;  Developing early literacy skills that are essential for school readiness; and  Enhancing the child’s conceptual and social emotional development. The program provides intensive home visiting to families who are challenged by poverty, low levels of education, language and literacy barriers and other obstacles, and with children between the ages of two and four years old. PC+ families participate in two, 30 50 minute home visits per week over a two year period, and receive educational materials to support positive interactions and development. A trained Home Visitor brings a book or educational toy as a gift for the family and uses it to model, for the parent and child, play, verbal interaction, and reading activities that help to create a language rich home environment. PC+ meets all the best practice criteria set forth in the most recent research: it is an early intervention/prevention model; it focuses on early literacy both within a social emotional and cognitive/language development context; and it emphasizes parental responsibility. It also honors each family’s culture, uses developmentally appropriate books and toys, connects the family with the local school district and other community agencies to address family support needs, and emphasizes the importance of training and supervision of Home Visitors. Services are delivered in the home languages of the families by staff that reflect the cultures and languages of participants. The program’s design and activities also reduce risk factors associated with child abuse, maltreatment and neglect, and introduce or increase protective factors. The evidence base for PC+ is strong. Studies have consistently documented from pre to post program participation an increase in warm, responsive and steady routines and interactions in participating families. Research has also consistently found that program children enter school with the requisite social emotional skills to be successful in a classroom environment. Child participants out perform at risk control or comparison groups on various cognitive measures and close the achievement gap with middle class children. Randomized controlled trials have also demonstrated cognitive benefits for toddlers immediately after program participation. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone leads this program, supporting staffing, resource development, design and implementation. Additional partners, such as IncludeNYC, provide parent workshops on critical early childhood topics, such as understanding children with different abilities and guided play; partners such as Bank Street College of Education provide staff development opportunities on topics including supporting language development for emerging bilinguals. Families are referred to an array of organizations, agencies, and providers to access needed services. For example, through a medical legal partnership between Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and Her Justice, women in the program have access to free legal services related to custody, divorce, domestic violence, and immigration. Partners, such as the Sunset Park Early Learning Network, also support the expansion of quality early childhood services throughout the Sunset Park community. Here’s what participants said about ParentChild+ in 2018:  For me the program is very good as it helps us parents to spend time with our children.  This is a very good program. I am learning how to be calm and patient when my child gets upset.  The program has helped me understand my children. I am learning to be patient and I am learning to encourage my children to read. 51 Progress and impact ParentChild+ joined the Community Service Plan in September 2017. In the 2017 2018 program year, the program served 52 families with the following activities:  2,443 home visits were completed;  618 developmentally appropriate books were provided to families;  567 developmentally appropriate educational toys were provided to families;  7 family learning trips were offered;  2 family celebration events were held; and  22 parent workshops were offered. From the beginning of the 2017 2018 program year to the end of the 4th quarter, the program operated at capacity, retaining all families. The 2018 2019 program is also fully enrolled. We attribute this strong performance to the program’s leadership team and its commitment to supervision and professional development, the program’s fidelity to the evidence based model, and a focus on culturally representative program staff. The program uses two validated tools Parent and Child Together (PACT) and Child Behavior Traits (CBT) to assess the frequency with which parents and children demonstrate specific desired behaviors as observed by staff during the visits. These behaviors are related to the program’s three overarching outcomes parent child interaction, social emotional development of the child, and pre literacy skills all of which are essential components of the child’s school readiness. Baseline assessments are conducted at the beginning of each program cycle and are used to customize the support given to each family. Assessments are re administered at the end of the program cycle to ensure families have acquired sustainable skills that will impact the entire family and to measure outcome attainment from the beginning of the program. The 16 families that graduated from the two year intervention in 2018 showed substantial progress. At the end of the program, 13 of the 16 parents frequently or always demonstrated positive parenting behaviors in home visits, compared to only 4 at the start of the program. Twelve of the 16 participating children frequently or always demonstrated school readiness skills in home visits at the end of the program, compared to only 1 child at the beginning. 52 Plans Over the next three years, ParentChild+ will support 84 Sunset Park families. Through their participation in the program, they will receive 1,932 home visits, 924 educational toys, and 1,008 books. The program plans to retain of enrolled families for the two year duration. At the end of the two year intervention, enrolled parents will consistently demonstrate increased knowledge and awareness of child development and increased use of positive parenting techniques, while children will demonstrate improved social and emotional development, indicating increases in school readiness. B. Video Interaction Project The Video Interaction Project (VIP: www.videointeractionproject.org) is an evidence based parenting program developed by faculty at NYU Langone and NYC H+H/Bellevue that uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents utilize pretend play, shared reading, and daily routines as opportunities for strengthening early development and literacy in their children. VIP sessions take place in pediatric clinics on days of routine well child visits, and at each session families meet individually with an interventionist for approximately 25 minutes. Background Decades of research all point to the same conclusion: Poverty causes significant barriers to a child’s scholastic success and reduces opportunities for early learning and educational achievement. These poverty related gaps (disparities) in achievement originate in infancy and continue into early childhood and grow wider over time in the absence of intervention. Even when academic and behavioral mediation programs are successful, they nonetheless place great burdens—financial and otherwise—on parents, schools, and society. Approximately 50 percent of disparities in school achievement in children of low income families can be traced to fewer opportunities for early learning activities with parents, including: reading aloud, play, talking, and teaching. Although a host of programs exist to support early learning through enhanced parenting, few of them have VIP’s level of evidence and cost remains a barrier for widespread dissemination. NYU Langone Health pediatricians and psychologists have developed an early childhood intervention aimed at reducing educational achievement gaps before children reach the classroom in a way that is sustainable, cost efficient, and scalable. In addition, there has been significant interest in VIP over the past several years by multiple stakeholders in NYC, including the city government, public service agencies, foster care agencies, health care providers and administrators at potential sites. The Challenge As more than two in five children in the United States grow up in poverty or in low income families, poverty related disparities in learning and achievement represent one of the most important problems facing society at this time. While the causes of disparities in learning are complex, it is well established that readiness to learn demonstrated by capacity to pay attention and control behavior, attainment of early reading and math skills, among other indicators is already greatly reduced for children growing up in poor or near poor households 53 by the time they enter school. The early onset of disparities and high cost of remediation suggest the need for effective programs that can prevent problems with behavior and learning before they emerge. Children’s early experiences from birth to five years of age play a critical role in shaping their brain development. Differences in these experiences are an important cause of developmental disparities for children growing up in poverty and near poverty. In particular, such children have reduced experiences with positive parenting activities such as reading aloud, playing, talking, and teaching. Lack of exposure to these activities may account for half of the disparities present at school entry. As such, promotion of these activities is an important focus for early, preventive intervention. The Video Interaction Project VIP’s core mechanism for promoting positive parenting activities is to engage and empower parents during pediatric primary care visits by making a video recording of each parent and child interacting together using a toy or book provided by the program. Immediately after the recording is made, a VIP Facilitator watches the video with the parent to highlight and reinforce interactions that have been shown in scientific studies to advance development. The combination of practice during the interaction and self reflection following the interaction empowers parents to consider and to value their role in fostering their child’s development. It also provides parents with the confidence and skills to engage in activities that will foster child development in the home. VIP occupies a very distinct and critically important niche in the context of broad policies to address disparities. Specifically, VIP addresses the following gaps and key needs: 1) Addressing parenting challenges and developmental problems prior to their emergence (“primary prevention”); 2) Engaging all poor and low income households through pediatric primary care visits; and 3) Providing families with the confidence and skill to engage in behaviors supporting child development. A VIP Facilitator meets with each family for 25 30 minutes in one on one sessions at the time of every well child visit from birth to 5 years. Using the proven effectiveness of video playback, the VIP Facilitator works with the parent to increase confidence and skills in interacting with his/her child. During each session: • The family is provided with a developmentally appropriate toy or book to take home, giving the family access to materials that facilitate rich interactions. • The VIP Facilitator leads a discussion about child development, suggests activities, and promotes goal setting and planning with the parent. 54 • After about 5 10 minutes of discussion regarding parent activities and the child’s development, the parent is videotaped playing and/or reading with the child and then given a guided review of these interactions. VIP brings together three separate disciplines pediatrics, developmental psychology, and early childhood education and has been refined and tested in the context of two separate randomized controlled trials at NYC Health+Hospitals/Bellevue with a third randomized control trial in progress. As a result, VIP has among the strongest evidence bases for any primary prevention, health care based program and seeking to address poverty related disparities in school readiness. Findings to date include large impacts on positive parenting activities (reading aloud, teaching, talking, playing together), reduced harsh parenting, enhanced coping with parenting (reduced parenting stress, depressive symptoms), enhanced parent child relationships, and enhanced development (across domains, but most strongly for social emotional development with reductions in hyperactivity and attention problems sustained into school entry). Progress and impact The Video Interaction Project (VIP) was added to the Community Service Plan in September 2018. It is being implemented at the Sunset Park Family Health Center following an implementation protocol developed in collaboration with Community Resource Exchange. The protocol includes a 3 year startup period, beginning with development of processes to align with practice flow, and ramping up of families seen. In addition to delivery of 1:1 VIP implementation, the program will develop linkages and synergies based on work performed at other sites, including through the New York City Council City’s First Readers program and based on programs currently available at the Sunset Park Family Health Center. These include: Healthy Steps, Reach Out and Read, ParentChild+, and the Brooklyn Public Library, and other programs as appropriate. In the current plan, evaluation will take place utilizing existing surveys and visit documentation tools, and will include documentation of both engagement and pre /post measures as appropriate. We will also assess the feasibility of and need for more formal evaluation and/or research plans. During 2018 2019, the program will reach 20 40 families. 55 Plans Over the next three years, the Video Interaction Project will continue to refine the program implementation. The program will work with practice leadership, providers and staff to align pathways and processes for referral and implementation within the practice flow, and establish and maintain linkages with the Sunset Park Family Health Center and community programs. The program will deliver one on one VIP sessions to 450 650 parent/child dyads during the 2019 2021 Plan. C. Project SAFE Project SAFE prevents unintended pregnancy and the spread of STDs and HIV/AIDS through evidence based interventions within a youth development framework that builds upon the existing strengths of young people. Project SAFE has been providing teen leadership, culturally appropriate sexual health information and services, and HIV peer education programming at the Project Reach Youth (PRY) site in Brooklyn since 1989. The program provides youth ages 13 to 24 with the support and the opportunities to avoid risky behaviors and to develop to their full potential and become agents of change in their communities. Project SAFE is informed by a youth development approach, focusing on building participants’ strengths and assets and increasing their exposure to positive relationships and experiences. This approach is based on the Search Institute’s identification of 40 positive supports and strengths that young people need to succeed and research indicating that the greater the number of assets youth possess, the more likely they are to experience positive outcomes and the less likely to engage in risky behavior. The program model includes evidence based sexual health workshops, peer led health education groups and community events, sexual health services designed to meet the unique needs of adolescents, and workshops for youth workers and parents. 56 Progress and impact Multi Session Workshop Series Project SAFE works with partners to provide pregnancy prevention workshops to youth in underserved communities in Brooklyn. The program utilizes two evidence based sexual health curricula that have been shown to increase knowledge and eliminate or reduce risky sexual behaviors Be Proud! Be Responsible (BPBR) and 4Me!. Topics covered during the seven session workshop series include pregnancy and STD/HIV prevention, as well as confidence, pride, and respect building activities. Since September 2016, Project SAFE has facilitated 89 cycles of BPBR and 4Me!, reaching a total of 2,277 youth in 26 high schools, community based organizations, and high school equivalency programs. New partnerships developed since September 2016 include Grand Street Settlement, Good Shepherd Services, Wingate Campus (4 schools), Brooklyn College Community Partnership (3 sites), EBC High School, Brooklyn Frontiers High School, Nelson Mandela High School, Benjamin Banneker Academy, and P. S. 371, an alternative high school in Sunset Park. Program evaluations have shown that, as a result of the workshops, most participants know more about how to protect themselves from pregnancy or STIs and are more likely to practice safer sex or abstain from sex ( and respectively, as reported on a post workshop survey). Eighty five percent of workshop participants completed at least of workshop sessions. Peer Education Groups Youth who complete the workshop series transition into the Project SAFE Teen Health Council, an introductory peer health education group. In the Teen Health Council, peer educators learn the basics