patches and gums; and refer smokers to ASQ (for those who speak Chinese) or the New York State Smokers’ Quitline and the Smokefree Text Messaging Programs (for those who speak English). The Smoker Navigator Program will (1) enroll at least 85 smokers (including 10 or more NYCHA residents) to the Smoker Navigator Program each year; (2) provide NRT to at least 50 smokers; and (3) refer at least 35 smokers to ASQ or New York State Smokers’ Quitline. (Please see Appendix F for a full list of targets.) Expansion of community outreach activities AAFE’s current community outreach activities are primarily implemented in the Chinatown area. In the next three years, we plan to expand community outreach activities to include NYCHA developments in the Lower East Side and to extend further east (where the population of Chinese Americans is growing). Some examples of community outreach activities include (1) partnering with local CBOs in NYCHA developments to plan community outreach activities (e.g., education) in order to engage NYCHA residents in the Smoker Navigator Program; (2) developing flyers with CBOs and tenant organizers, and place in senior centers and other relevant locations; and (3) continuing to conduct outreach activities in Chinatown to engage smokers in the navigator program and delivering workshops that integrate an anti smoking education session in the outreach activities. For each year in the next three years, the outreach program will reach at least 1,500 people and collaborate with at least 7 CBOs to increase reach of the Navigator Program and awareness of dangers of ETS (3 of the CBOS must work with NCYHA developments). (Please see Appendix F for a full list of targets). The Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative (AATFCI) Under the umbrella of the AATFCI, we will continue to partner with CBWCHC to strengthen the network members’ capacity to implement programs to reduce tobacco use among Asian Americans in NYC. In the next three years, AATFCI will focus on: (1) expanding the coalition to include more CBOs that serve immigrant populations that are experiencing disparities in tobacco use and related illnesses; and (2) seeking New York City Council discretionary funding to support 29 AATFCI partners’ tobacco control interventions and activities. CBWCHC will engage AATFCI partners and other organizations that serve immigrant populations in applying for community based tobacco control funding from the New York City Council, facilitate and participate in the meetings between partners and City Council members, and provide partners with technical support in grant applications and renewals. For each year, CBWCHC will (1) organize and lead four quarterly partner meetings, (2) identify and invite at least two new organizations that serve immigrant populations to join AATFCI per year, and (3) identify at least five community partners to collaborate in the development of a coalition that is jointly seeking funding to develop smoking cessation and prevention programs. (See Appendix F.) Education on e cigarette use among youth E cigarettes, particularly JUUL (a brand of e cigarette that is shaped like a USB flash drive), have become increasingly popular among youth. Data from the National Youth Tobacco Survey showed that, from 2011 to 2018, current (past 30 day) e cigarette use increased from 1. to 20. among high school students, and increased from 0. to 4. among middle school students. The significant increase is believed to be in part due to the popularity of JUUL. Since 2014, e cigarettes have replaced cigarettes as the most commonly used tobacco product among middle and high school students. Of major concern is the emerging evidence that e cigarette use leads to cigarette smoking initiation and increased smoking intensity. Both a meta analysis and a recent report from the National Academies of Sciences present findings from longitudinal studies that show elevated cigarette initiation rates among youth who use e cigarettes. The growing e cigarette use is largely related to the low risk perceptions. To prevent youth from initiating e cigarette use (including Juul), it is important to raise awareness about the potential harms of e cigarettes and the marketing tactics e cigarette companies have used to target the younger generation. The NYULH Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine’s Prevention and Education Partnership (PEP) Talks program will partner with CBWCHC’s Teen Resource Center to conduct a series of workshops that engage youth in conversations about e cigarettes and to share the latest evidence on the potential harmful and addictive nature of e cigarette use. This program will target adolescents who live, recreate, or attend school in Lower East Side and Chinatown of Manhattan, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn. The Teen Resource Center employs a peer to peer model to engage youth in the discussion of important health issues (e.g., risky sexual behaviors, tobacco use, substance abuse, and stress). The Center is staffed by a group of young professionals who are passionate and experienced in conducting educational workshops and outreach activities among youth. The PEP Talks program is dedicated to decreasing high risk behaviors (e.g., drug use and sexual behavior) among youth in NYC. The PEP Talk curriculum includes a series of health education talks (including “Nicotine Teen Resource Center The Teen Resource Center was founded in 2003 to supplement the Pediatrics Department of Charles B. Wang Community Health Center. The mission of the Center is to provide a safe space for Asian American and other underserved youth to learn new skills, develop confidence, build support networks, and serve as community health advocates. Teen Resource Center staff serve as mentors and educators, working to improve adolescent biopsychosocial health. 30 and Juul”) which target middle school students and are expertly tailored to engage that age group in meaningful conversations about drugs and sex. We will leverage the strong partnerships between CBWCHC’s Teen Resource Center and schools located in Lower East Side and Chinatown of Manhattan, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn, as well as the strong experience of the PEP Talks team in nicotine education. Together we will develop a tobacco and e cigarette educational and advocacy toolkit. The toolkit will contain educational materials (e.g., presentation slides, role play cards, and worksheets), user manual (i.e., an instruction on how to use the toolkit), and assessment tools. In the first year of the CSP, we will tailor the PEP “Nicotine and Juul” curriculum to target high school students, develop other educational toolkit materials (e.g., user manual, assessment tools), deliver at least 6 workshops in high schools and reach out to at least 120 teens and adolescents in Lower East Side and Chinatown of Manhattan, and Sunset Park of Brooklyn. In years two and three of the CSP, we will refine the tobacco and e cigarette educational and advocacy toolkit based on feedback from students who have attended the workshop, educators from CBWCHC’s Teen Resource Center, and experts from NYU Department of Population Health and the PEP Talks program. We will continue to conduct at least 6 workshops and reach out to at least 120 teens and adolescents each year. (See Appendix F for a full list of targets.) WeChat Quit Coach Pilot Program The interviews and surveys we conducted with Chinese American smokers suggested that there is potential for using a social media platform to reach Chinese American smokers and deliver smoking cessation services. Our primary survey data (N=49) showed that WeChat was the most popular () social media platform. (WeChat, the most popular social media site among Chinese globally, has 1.08 billion monthly active users as of the third quarter of 2018.33) Among WeChat users, reported daily use, mainly for communication (daily instant messaging to individuals or in groups ) and acquiring information (daily news/articles reading: ). In the coming year, we will launch a WeChat Quit Coach Pilot Program to examine the feasibility of using WeChat to deliver smoking cessation intervention among Chinese American smokers. In collaboration with CBWCHC, we plan to enroll adult Chinese American smokers who are interested in quitting in a 4 week WeChat Quit Coach Pilot Program. We will create WeChat groups with 4 6 smokers for each group. In each group, two experts (including a faculty member from NYU Department of Population Health and a certified tobacco treatment specialist from CBWCHC) will coach the group. During the 4 week intervention period, each group will receive a daily message with evidence based smoking cessation strategies developed based on the US Clinical Practice Guidelines for smoking cessation, and one daily question (related to craving and stress management skill and resistance skill) designed to stimulate group Prevention and Education Partnership (PEP) Talks program Founded in 2015, PEP is dedicated to decreasing the incidence of preventable illnesses and injuries commonly seen in the emergency department. Taught by physicians and toxicologists, the PEP Talk curriculum is expertly tailored to engage students in meaningful conversations about drugs and sex. With a focus on delivering factual information, enhancing risk assessment skills, and providing access to healthcare resources, PEP Talks seeks to transcend traditional models of teaching about drugs, alcohol and sex. 31 discussion (e.g., “One of the best ways to combat a nicotine craving is to keep your hands busy! How do you plan to keep your hands occupied when you get hit with a sudden urge to smoke?”). Smokers can ask questions either in group or directly to the coaches (without being seen by other group members) for in time support. Post program assessment will be conducted to assess feasibility (e.g., enrollment rate, retention rate, and reasons for ineligibility, refusal, and fail to quit), acceptability (e.g., response rate to daily group questions, proportion of messages read, and satisfaction level), and cessation outcomes (e.g., self reported 7 day abstinence rate, quit attempt and intention). In year one, we plan to develop the message and question library, and enroll 20 smokers to the WeChat Quit Coach Pilot Program. In years two and three, we will refine the message/question library based on the feedback from smokers who have participated in the program, and enroll another 30 smokers to the program each year. The ultimate goal is to launch this platform to increase engagement of Chinese American smokers in treatment and to increase cessation rates. B. Health + Housing Project As we learned in our CHNA, housing instability and quality are priority social determinants of health in all of our CSP communities. People who are homeless, housing insecure or living in poor quality housing suffer disproportionately from physical and mental health conditions. Furthermore, poor health is often concentrated within the same neighborhoods that face concentrated poverty and other social ills. People living in such neighborhoods have high levels of chronic disease, mental illness, and exposure to environmental risks such as injury and violence. Not surprisingly, they concomitantly have high use of costly health care services, including frequent emergency department visits and hospitalizations. With the growing gentrification of CD 3, people living in subsidized, low income apartment buildings who are more likely to have multiple health risks and needs are in danger of becoming increasingly isolated. This is of great concern in the community. To address these needs, in April 2016 we launched a pilot Community Health Worker (CHW) program in two low income buildings in partnership with Henry Street Settlement, the NYU Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), Hester Street Collaborative, the Chinatown YMCA and with support from the Robin Hood Foundation. The program was place based (located in the two buildings); addressed social, environmental, and structural determinants of health in addition to promoting healthy behaviors and effective use of the healthcare system; and was tailored to the specific needs of building residents. Henry Street Settlement Founded in 1893 by Lillian Wald, Henry Street Settlement opens doors of opportunity to enrich lives and enhance human progress for Lower East Side residents and other New Yorkers through social services, arts, and health care programs. Each year, Henry Street Settlement serves 60,000 individuals through social services, arts and health care programs. 32 Progress and impact Prior to the start of the program, community surveyors collected 390 baseline surveys from residents 18 years and older in 266 of 450 apartment units ( response rate; apartment unit response). The surveys provided crucial information on resident health conditions and behaviors, as well as their social and economic needs. Survey results were presented back to residents of both buildings. Of the 390 residents who completed baseline surveys, 226 () went on to complete an intake with a bilingual CHW (Chinese/English and Spanish/English). The majority were 45 64 years old (37.), female (61.) and Latinx (68.). Over had less than a high school degree (43.), 32. were unemployed or unable to work, and 62. had a household income of less than $20,000. Nearly of participants reported being diagnosed with hypertension (37.), while 17. reported being diagnosed with diabetes, and 24. reported being diagnosed with asthma. The majority of participants were covered by Medicaid (50.). Despite having access to subsidized housing, participants reported a high degree of housing insecurity, as 21. reported being unable to pay rent on time in the past 6 months. CHWs used motivational interviewing techniques to guide participants through a goal setting activity, and then together they developed an action plan for the resident to achieve their goals. Participants ranked disease management, employment or job readiness skills, and access to care as their top three goals. CHWs provided coaching on health behaviors, helped residents navigate environmental and structural issues in their apartments, and connected residents to health and social services, making over 400 informal referrals, half of which were to Henry Street Settlement (our community partner). The NYU Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy The Furman Center is a joint center of NYU’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service and School of Law. Since its founding in 1995, the NYU Furman Center has become a leading academic research center devoted to housing and land use policy. The mission of the Furman Center is to provide objective academic and empirical research on the legal and public policy issues involving neighborhood change, land use, housing, and mortgage finance in the United States; promote frank and productive discussions about those issues; and present essential data and analysis about the state of housing and neighborhoods in the nation’s leading urban areas. 33 Over the course of the 15 month intervention (April 2016 June 2017), CHWs recorded more than 2,400 in person visits with participants, averaging 11 visits per participant. Residents worked with CHWs for an average of 9.5 months. Periodic workshops were held in the community rooms of both buildings to address residents’ needs and priorities. NY Common Pantry provided two nutrition workshops (in Spanish, English and Cantonese) and Hester Street Collaborative led two Healthy Homes workshops focusing on the use of non toxic materials to clean and deal with pests. In addition, two of the CHWs organized regular group sessions with residents, including a nutrition/wellness group and a physical activity class. As the intervention was winding down, CHWs connected residents still in need of care coordination and support to a Health Home. At the end of the program, we held a recognition ceremony in June 2017 for participants of both buildings. CHWs handed out certificates of achievement to the residents they worked with, and CHWs were recognized for their work with residents. From June October 2017, community surveyors conducted a follow up survey with 440 residents () in 263 of 450 apartments (). Of the 226 program participants, 172 completed both a baseline and post survey (76.). In October 2017, we also conducted five focus groups with approximately 40 participants to get more personalized in depth feedback on the program. Example of materials provided to residents during the Healthy Homes workshop (April 2017) 34 Pre post survey results indicated that, compared with baseline, more participants reported having a personal doctor after the CHW program (84. baseline vs. 92. post survey, p<0.01). The percent of participants covered by health insurance increased (94. vs. 98.), however the difference was not statistically significant (p=0.06). There was also a significant increase from baseline in the number of participants who saw their primary care provider 4 or more times in the past 6 months (24. vs. 34., p=0.03). There was a decrease in participants who visited an ED 3 or more times in the past 12 months (14. vs. 10.), but this was not statistically significant (p=0.13). Compared with baseline, fewer participants reported being food insecure (53. vs. 41., p<0.01), needing food benefits (13. vs. 31., p<0.01), unable to access job training or employment programs (12. vs. 6., p=0.02), education/GED/ESL programs (8. vs. 2., p=0.02), a place to exercise (24. vs. 16., p=0.01), or unable to pay their rent on time (22. vs. 13., p<0.01). Residents reported high levels of satisfaction with the CHW program. Over three quarters said they were “very” or “extremely comfortable” speaking with their CHW about their issues (76.), and almost all were “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with their individual CHW (96.) and the CHW program overall (96.). The focus groups conducted confirmed these findings, with many participants recounting heartfelt stories of how meaningful working with their CHW had been for them. Overall our findings suggest that CHWs were successful in helping participants make connections to resources and gain access to needed benefits. While we did not see improvements in a number of health indicators, we did see significant improvement in social determinants of health. Consistent with other studies of social determinants of health interventions and our own theoretical model for how the CHW intervention would work, our findings indicate that health benefits from this type of program could take longer to manifest themselves. We have published our baseline and participant assessment findings from this project in a special issue of Cityscape on the housing health connection (Vol. 20, Number 2, 2018), and are in the process of finalizing a paper summarizing the pre post analysis findings to be published in 2019. Growing out of this pilot project, Henry Street Settlement was asked to continue the CHW program in one of the intervention buildings and to expand it to two additional buildings in the same development under the same ownership. Building management is supporting this effort, which includes two full time CHWs and one full time supervisor, who carries a caseload. NYULH continues to provide technical assistance to support this work. Plans As part of the continued evaluation of the Health + Housing Project, in 2019 we will be analyzing Medicaid claims and SPARCS data to measure objective changes in residents’ emergency department use and hospitalizations a year prior, during, and after the CHW intervention. Following completion of these analyses we will publish our results. Several of our partners DOHMH, NYCHA, HPD, the Archdiocese of New York and Wavecrest Management have expressed interested in the Health + Housing Project as a potentially 35 replicable model for other low income housing developments across the City. We are exploring implementing a similar CHW model in NYCHA buildings in Red Hook, Brooklyn focused on both asthma and social determinants of health more generally. Our partners there include the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Red Hook Initiative, Red Hook Community Justice Center, Good Shepherd Services, and Alex House Project. We have also provided technical support to NYCHA in their efforts to pilot a CHW training program for their residents in other developments in the City. Finally, the Health + Housing Project has provided the foundation for the launch of two other CSP initiatives: the Southwest Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium and the CHW Research and Resource Center described below. C. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de Hábitos Saludables Stemming from the 2013 CHNA, the Family Health Centers’ Department of Community Based Programs convened a design team to develop a pediatric obesity program to address the high rates of obesity among children in Sunset Park, supplementing the care and referrals routinely provided by pediatric primary care providers. The program design team consisting of a medical doctor, nutritionists, community planners, and social workers used child and adolescent intervention design recommendations from the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) as a guideline for the intervention and adopted concepts from the following evidence based, multi component programs and curricula: Media Smart Youth; We Can! Energize Our Families; Nutrition to Grow On; and Eat Healthy, Be Active. Community members representing the targeted audience also participated in the design and implementation plans. The program was piloted in 2015 and has been adjusted based on program evaluations and a NYU Langone Health Department of Population Health Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science (CHIDS) research study. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de Hábitos Saludables (formerly called Healthy Families Program/ Programa de familias saludables) consists of 12 multi disciplinary sessions for 9 11 year olds and their parents. The intervention focuses on this age group because it is the time when children become more independent from their parents and are able to evaluate and alter their dietary habits and attitudes. Parents are included as participants since evidence shows that programs that engage family members have greater success in stabilizing or reducing children’s BMI. The program is culturally relevant to the local Latinx population and is conducted in English and Spanish. Each session consists of three components:  Customized nutrition education, including family meal preparation facilitated by a trained chef;  Support groups for parents and children; and  Physical fitness activity. The customized nutrition education component is facilitated by a nutritionist and focuses on the 5 2 1 0 model, a nationally recognized, research validated childhood obesity prevention program based on evidence informed recommendations from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The family meal preparation component was added to the program in 2018 through a partnership with Common Threads. Their research based methodology addresses the many factors that influence a child's decision making: personal, interpersonal, and environmental, in order to effect long term behavior 36 change. The organization’s family cooking classes have shown promise in improving family vegetable consumption (a goal of the Healthy Habits program), which can lead to long term positive health outcomes. Separate support groups for children and parents offer opportunities to address questions and challenges, help them adopt strategies for setting limits and promoting healthy behaviors, and build peer support. The physical fitness component focuses on low or no cost activities that can be done in the home or through local community resources. The program is offered in two models: once weekly (over 12 weeks) and twice weekly (over six weeks) to accommodate family and program implementation partner schedules. It is held at a Family Health Centers site and at P.S. 503/506, in close collaboration with a local preventive service agency, the Center for Family Life’s after school program; school administration; and the Family Health Centers’ School based Health Center, which provides medical and mental health services on site, offering a unique opportunity to reach children where they spend many hours of the day. Children and families are recruited through referrals from primary care and school based health providers, referrals from community programs, and direct outreach to community residents via mailing, flyering and calling. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de hábitos saludables is designed to:  Stabilize the participating child’s BMI; and  Support child and family behavior change based on 5 2 1 0: − Fruit and vegetable consumption (5 or more fruits and vegetables per day); − Daily screen time (2 hours or less of recreational screen time per day); − Physical activity (1 hour or more of daily physical activity); and − Sugar sweetened beverage consumption (0 sugary drinks). Progress and impact Since September 2016, six program cycles have been conducted reaching 77 children and families. Participation was less than anticipated, but increased during this time period. In the last cohort served, of families attended nine sessions or more (26+ intervention hours). BMI data indicates the likelihood of long term stabilization for all program participants. This outcome will be measured at the one year follow up sessions. New evaluation tools were developed and tested with the target population in summer 2017 in collaboration with NYU Langone Department of Population Health. The new tools incorporate several validated measures, including the 5 2 1 0 37 Healthy Habits Questionnaire, Family Nutrition and Physical Activity Screener, and the NIH PROMIS measure. These measures are better aligned with program outcome goals and the instruments are more accessible to program participants. The revisions to the assessment tools were successful and have informed program design and implementation. Overall, program participants have been satisfied with the program. There was a statistically significant improvement in children’s healthy eating scores (amount or frequency of eating fruits and vegetables, breakfast, fast food, and dinner as a family), based on the revised pre/post assessments used with four cohorts (25 children with pre and post assessments) starting in November 2017. Parent responses also suggest behavior change in food choices. Of the 25 parents who completed pre and post assessments, 14 () reported their family never eats “ready to eat” foods, compared to 19 () at the end of the program. Survey results also indicated the following:  Improvements in daily servings of fruits and vegetables: The percentage of children eating 4 or more servings of fruits and vegetables each day remained about the same before and after the program (5 before, 6 after), but there was a notable improvement in those reporting an average daily intake of 0 1 servings. 8 children () reported eating only 0 1 servings of fruits and vegetables every day before the program, compared to only 2 children () at the end of the program;  Improvements in child's screen time: Parent responses indicated an improvement, with 12 parents () reporting their child very often or always had less than 2 hours of screen time, compared to 9 () before the program;  Improvements in daily physical activity: The number of children engaging in physical activity 6 7 days per week increased between the beginning and end of the program, with 6 children () before compared to 12 children () at the end; and  Improvements in sugary drinks consumption: There was an improvement in reducing sugary beverage consumption to 0 1 per day. 15 children () reported consuming 0 1 sugary beverages each day before the program, compared to 18 children () at the end of the program. Plans In 2019 2022, the Healthy Habits Program will conduct 15 program cycles reaching 150 children and families. The program will continue to develop plans to meet target enrollment and retention numbers ( attending 9 or more sessions in 2019, in 2020 and 2021). 38 We will continue our partnerships with Common Threads, expand to one additional Family Health Center site, and continue to use process and outcome data gathered during and after the program to monitor our progress and inform program design and implementation. In the long term, we hope to reduce the percentage of children and adolescents who are obese and create measurable sustained change in behaviors and attitudes towards healthy living in both children and parents. D. Greenlight early child obesity prevention program Taking advantage of the frequency of primary care pediatric visits in the early years of life, beginning with the 2014 2016 Community Service Plan, the Department of Pediatrics at NYULH, in partnership with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC), adapted and implemented Greenlight, an evidence based program that teaches families about healthy eating and activity in order to prevent early childhood obesity in the Chinese American community. The Greenlight program, which was developed as part of an NIH funded grant in settings that serve predominantly low income black and Hispanic families, trains pediatricians and other health care providers on how to communicate effectively with families using toolkits that contain culturally tailored educational materials that are easy to understand. The use of these plain language principles benefit all individuals, but are especially helpful for those with low literacy. Greenlight focuses on improving health literacy and fostering family engagement through three core components:  Low literacy toolkits to support physician counseling around diet and activity related behaviors at well child visits starting at 2 months of age, which include booklets containing age specific recommendations and ‘tangible tools’ to support evidence based obesity prevention messages (e.g., portion size snack cups);  Training of providers in evidence based health communication strategies (use of plain language, supplementing counseling with written information, along with teachback and goal setting);  Waiting room program where health educators promote family engagement in care as they introduce and support Greenlight messages. As part of the NIH funded multi site cluster randomized study, children who received Greenlight had a lower BMI z score at 6, 12, and 18 months of age. There were also reductions in obesogenic behaviors, including less juice consumption by children, among families who The importance of health literacy Approximately 90 million Americans—or 45 percent of the population—have basic or below basic literacy skills, and 110 million have basic or below basic quantitative skills; these low literacy populations struggle with understanding and acting on health information, referred to as low health literacy. Nearly of US parents are categorized as having low health literacy. Minority and immigrant families are at increased risk for having low health literacy. Low health literacy and numeracy is associated with worse health outcomes; with respect to issues related to obesity, low health literacy and numeracy have been associated with lower rates of breastfeeding, difficulty understanding food labels and portion sizes, higher rates of obesogenic behaviors like pressuring feeding, decreased physical activity, and screen time, as well as higher rates of obesity. 39 received Greenlight. A cohort of children are continuing to be followed through age 5, to see the impact of Greenlight at later timepoints. The Greenlight intervention incorporates evidence based messages related to child obesity. Prior to developing the Greenlight toolkit, a comprehensive literature review was conducted and published by the study team to inform toolkit content. The original Greenlight program was developed through an iterative process that included engagement from a diverse array of families, pediatric providers, nutritionists, and experts in pediatric obesity, child development, health literacy/numeracy, health communication, linguistic/cultural competence, behavioral health, and graphic design. The intervention includes “core” booklets that are given out at each well child visit, which introduce or reinforce three age appropriate parent behaviors thought to be most strongly associated with preventing obesity during early childhood based on the peer reviewed literature. These behaviors are highlighted on the cover of each Core booklet within a green “traffic light.” Additional “supplemental” booklets provide more in depth guidance on topics known to be important to address in obesity prevention, including breastfeeding, sleep, healthy eating for the whole family, and screen time. Progress and impact Greenlight has now has been fully implemented in CBWCHC Chinatown site, where it is integrated as part of routine care in the pediatric clinic. In addition, we are planning for the implementation of the program at the Seventh Avenue Family Health Center in Sunset Park, Brooklyn one of the sites of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. We have also laid the groundwork for broader dissemination of the program across the Family Health Center network, and beyond, by 40 updating toolkit information with the latest American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations, refining translations, and setting up a website where parents can easily access and share educational materials. Adaptation of the model The process of adapting the Greenlight program for use with Chinese American immigrant families was part of the 2014 2016 Community Service Plan, and was done in close partnership with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center. The cultural adaptation process involved a multi step process, which included outreach to over 160 parents, and went far beyond simple language translation language and changing the ethnicity of individuals in photographs. Rather, the team sought to achieve semantic, conceptual, item level and operational equivalence as part of the adaptation process. A key part of the process involved three focus groups conducted with parents (two groups in Mandarin and one group in Cantonese; 25 parents involved) and two focus groups with 20 providers/health educators. In addition to focus groups, providers (physicians, nurses, nutritionists) and health educators gave individual feedback on the materials throughout the translation and adaptation process. The materials some of which are shown here reflect the judgment and care of many participants. Implementation at CBWCHC The full set of Greenlight materials at CBWCHC (core and supplemental booklets translated into Simplified and Traditional Chinese), along with ‘tangible’ tools, have fully been rolled out at CBWCHC since May 2016, with 20 health care providers and 4 health educators trained in the use of the tools. We have also enrolled 200 children/caregivers as part of an evaluation cohort and completed a total of 436 surveys with them (comparing them to a baseline group of children/caregivers, n=~80 per age group of 6, 12, 24, 36 month old children and their caregivers enrolled pre Greenlight program implementation). Since the complete roll out of the program at the CBWCHC in May 2016, we have distributed a total of 4000 booklets and 3615 tangible tools (including sippy cups, portion size snack cups, divided plate). Annually, we have reached ~700 unique children and families (~ of unique eligible patients visiting each year). Of the 4049 well child visits of children 2 to 24 months of age that took place between September 2016 August 31, 2018, received Greenlight health education by a health educator or provider ( from a provider, from a health educator). 41 Dissemination Over 600 Greenlight booklets have been distributed to the CBWCHC site in Flushing Queens, and we have begun the process of extending the comprehensive program to the NYU Langone Family Health Centers’ 7th Avenue site in Sunset Park. A part time health educator is assisting in program implementation and evaluation and the Greenlight team has worked to understand the workflow at the 7th Avenue site to maximize the efficiency of intervention delivery; and revise, pilot, and implement evaluation assessments. Evaluation Enrollment of our cohort of children and caregivers at CBWCHC has allowed us to look at the impact of Greenlight on health behaviors. At the 6 and 12 month well child visit, we found that parents post Greenlight intervention implementation had significantly reduced juice/sweet drink intake (6 months: 4 vs. , p=0.03; 12 months: 7 vs. , p<0.001), reflecting a 10 fold and 20 fold decreased odds of giving juice for those time points, respectively. At 12 months of age, children had a 3 fold increased odds of using cups, an important step to transitioning from the bottle (post vs. pre: 86 vs. , p=0.01). At 12 months, there was also a 2 fold increased odds of consuming fruits/vegetables 4x or more per day (post vs. pre: 41 vs. , p=0.02), and a ~2 fold reduction in any consumption of sugary snacks (post vs. pre: 33 vs. , p=0.005); there was a trend for reduction in any junk food consumption. At 6 and 12 months, there was a greater than 5 fold increased odds of meeting physical activity recommendations. No differences were seen in rates of breastfeeding or screen time. Our evaluation study has also allowed us to look at changes in self efficacy and empowerment. Parents were asked about their level of agreement with 4 statements (e.g. “I can do many things to keep my child from being overweight,” “I know how to prevent my child from becoming overweight”). Parents of 6 and 12 month olds had an increased odds of choosing “strongly agree” to these statements (3 fold and 10 fold, respectively); differences in self efficacy was especially strong in parents of 12 month olds. Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone First opened in 2002, the Seventh Avenue site (formerly known as the Brooklyn Chinese Family Health Center) is part of FHC’s network of federally qualified health centers affiliated