FINAL PROGRAMGaylord Texan Resort & Convention CenterNovember 3−6 // Grapevine, TexasEXPLOREWHAT’s NEXT.Face mask recommendedWash hands often with soap and waterHealth and Safety PlanAAHKS has developed a Health and Safety Plan for the duration of the meeting. Under the advisement of our health and safety partners, we have a set of protocols that cover:• Meeting space considerations• Health considerations• Registration• Staff guidelines• Table and seating set up• Meal functions• Post event follow up• Livestreaming the General Session in guest roomsTo view the entire Health and Safety Plan, visit www.AAHKS.org/Meeting.Stay in your roomif you feel sick3www.AAHKS.org/MeetingLeadershipBOARD OF DIRECTORSPresidentBryan D. Springer, MDFirst Vice President Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS Second Vice President James I. Huddleston III, MDThird Vice President R. Michael Meneghini, MD Immediate Past President Richard lorio, MD Past President C. Lowry Barnes, MDSecretary Rafael J. Sierra, MDTreasurerRyan M. Nunley, MD Members At Large Ronald E. Delanois, MD, Lt. Col., USAF, MC (RET)David W. Manning, MDWilliam M. Mihalko, MD, PhDKim K. Tucker, MDCOUNCIL CHAIRS Health Policy Council: Adam J. Rana, MD Education and Communications Council: Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MSc Membership Council: James D. Slover, MD, MSCOMMITTEE CHAIRSAdvocacy: Adam J. Rana, MDCommittee on Committees: Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCSDigital Health and Social Media: Shaun P. Patel, MDDiversity Advisory Board: Muyibat A. Adelani, MD, Adam A. Sassoon, MD, MSEducation: Jeffrey B. Stambough, MDEvidence Based Medicine: David S. Jevsevar, MD, MBAFellowship Match Oversight: Michael J. Taunton, MDFinance: Ryan M. Nunley, MDFOCAL: William G. Hamilton, MDHumanitarian: J. Craig Morrison, MDIndustry Relations: Lucian C. Warth, MDInternational: Michael H. Huo, MDMembership Outreach: Keith A. Fehring, MD Nominating: Richard Iorio, MDPatient and Public Relations: Benjamin M. Stronach, MD, MSPractice Management: Alexander P. Sah, MDProgram: Jeremy M. Gililland, MDPublications: Samuel S. Wellman, MDQuality Measures: Robert S. Sterling, MD Research: Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MScWomen in Arthroplasty: Rina Jain, MD, FRCSCYoung Arthroplasty Group: Anna R. Cohen Rosenblum, MD, MScPROGRAM COMMITTEE Jeremy M. Gililland, MD, ChairLeonard T. Butler, MDJames A. Browne, MD Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA Gregory G. Polkowski II, MD, MScAdam A. Sassoon, MD, MSRan Schwarzkopf, MD, MScJonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Lucian C. Warth, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program4Submission ReviewersJeffrey A. Ackerman, MDMuyibat A. Adelani, MDOluwaseun Akinbo, MDBryce C. Allen, MDKyle G. Alpaugh, MD Derek F. Amanatullah, MD, PhDLucas A. Anderson, MDJohn P. Andrawis, MD, MBAAndrew E. Apple, MDMichael P. Ast, MDPhilip H. Aurigemma, MD Trevor R. Banka, MDMichael D. Baratz, MDC. Lowry Barnes, MDDexter K. Bateman, MDOmar A. Behery, MD, MPH Courtney D. Bell, MDJaime L. Bellamy, DOIlya Bendich, MDJenna A. Bernstein, MDAlex Betech, MDJason L. Blevins, MDHayden N. Box, MDNicholas M. Brown, MDTimothy S. Brown, MDFrank A. Buttacavoli, MDCory L. Calendine, MDTiffany N. Castillo, MDBrian P. Chalmers, MDDarwin D. Chen, MDGeorge F. Chimento, MD, FACSAlexander B. Christ, MD Dane J. Church, MDCharles E. Claps, DOAnna R. Cohen Rosenblum, MDHerbert J. Cooper, MDP. Maxwell Courtney, MDSteven J. Cowart, MDBrian M. Curtin, MD, MSChris J. Dangles, MDJonathan R. Danoff, MDMichele R. D’Apuzzo, MDEytan M. Debbi, MD, PhDDimitri E. Delagrammaticas, MDMatthew J. Dietz, MDJacob M. Drew, MDJustin N. Duke, MDStephen T. Duncan, MDJohn M. Dundon, MDRobert Easton, MDJon P. Edgington, MDKarim A. Elsharkawy, MDChijindu Emenari, MD, MBAStephen M. Engstrom, MDOrry Erez, MDThomas K. Fehring, MDMichael J. Feldstein, MD, MSYale A. Fillingham, MDMarcus C. Ford, MDDavid M. Freccero, MDKevin B. Fricka, MDJonathan P. Garino, MDElizabeth B. Gausden, MDBrian P. Gladnick, MDDevon D. Goetz, MDAshton H. Goldman, MDJeffrey M. Goldstein, MDGregory J. Golladay, MDJoseph S. Gondusky, MDEric M. Greber, MDMatthew J. Grosso, MDGeorge N. Guild III, MDNikkole M. Haines, MDBrian R. Hamlin, MDCharles P. Hannon, MDErik J. Hansen, MDMatthew A. Harb, MDJacob A. Haynes, MDNathanael D. Heckmann, MDVishal Hegde, MDVictor H. Hernandez, MD, MSShane R. Hess, DOThomas R. Hickernell, MDCarlos A. Higuera, MDChris W. Hoedt, MDJessica M. Hooper, MD5www.AAHKS.org/MeetingSubmission ReviewersDonald N. Hope, MDJohn V. Horberg, MDRobert E. Howell III, MDJames I. Huddleston III, MDJason R. Hull, MDUgo N. Ihekweazu, MDDavid J. Jacofsky, MDRina Jain, MD, FRCSCDerek R. Jenkins, MDJason M. Jennings, MDDavid S. Jevsevar, MD, MBALouis B. Jones, MDRyland P. Kagan, MDMichael S. Kain, MDEli Kamara, MDNathan B. Kaplan, MDJames A. Keeney, MDMick P. Kelly, MDJason J. Kim, MDBradley A. King, MDConnor A. King, MDBrian A. Klatt, MDYoung Min Kwon, MD, PhDMaxwell K. Langfitt, MDCharles M. Lawrie, MD, MScCameron K. Ledford, MDBrett R. Levine, MD, MSPaul M. Lichstein, MD, MSElizabeth G. Lieberman, MDAdolph V. Lombardi Jr., MDZachary C. Lum, DOTad M. Mabry, MDCraig R. Mahoney, MDDavid W. Manning, MDTheodore T. Manson, MDJoseph D. Maratt, MDJ. Ryan Martin, MDJ. Bohannon Mason, MDVasilios Mathews, MDDavid J. Mayman, MDD. Clinton McNabb, MDSimon C. Mears, MD, PhDChristopher M. Melnic, MDDaniel R. Mesko, DOMark E. Mildren, MD Vincent M. Moretti, MDJ. Craig Morrison, MDWayne E. Moschetti, MD, MSThomas G. Myers, MDAustin C. Nabet, DODenis Nam, MD, MScSumon Nandi, MD, MBANathaniel J. Nelms, MDBrian T. Nickel, MDO. Brant Nikolaus, MDW. Trevor North, MDRyan M. Nunley, MDDionisio Ortiz III, MDJesse E. Otero, MD, PhDJessica L. Page, MDThomas J. Parisi, MDKevin W. Park, MDHari K. Parvataneni, MDJavad Parvizi, MD, FRCSJay J. Patel, MDNirav K. Patel, MD, FRCSAndrew M. Pepper, MDBrett C. Perricelli, MDNicolas S. Piuzzi, MDKevin D. Plancher, MD, MPHMihail C. Radulescu, MDAdam J. Rana, MDHarold W. Rees, MDMichael S. Reich, MDBenjamin F. Ricciardi, MDAndrew B. Richardson, MDRyan N. Robertson, MDDavid Rodriguez Quintana, MDJeremy A. Ross, MDJoshua C. Rozell, MDAlexander P. Sah, MDJeffrey W. Salin, DOAdam A. Sassoon, MD, MSArjun Saxena, MD, MBAKenneth J. Schmidt, MDDustin J. Schuett, DO2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program6Submission ReviewersSpencer Schulte, MDH. Del Schutte Sr., MDBenjamin J. Schwartz, MDTravis S. Scudday, MDPeter K. Sculco, MDRobert A. Sershon, MDVivek M. Shah, MDRoshan P. Shah, MDCambize Shahrdar Jr., MDNeil P. Sheth, MDAhmed Siddiqi, MD, MBARafael J. Sierra, MDZachary W. Sisko, MDJames D. Slover, MDEric B. Smith, MDDavid H. So, MD, FAAOSMark J. Spangehl, MDJeffrey B. Stambough, MDAlexandra Stavrakis, MDG. Daxton Steele, MDRobert S. Sterling, MDBenjamin M. Stronach, MD, MSLouis S. Stryker, MDDaniel C. Sun, MDSean A. Sutphen, DOZachary P. Thielen, MDMathew J. Thompson, MDRobert W. Tracey, MDKrishna R. Tripuraneni, MDAudrey K. Tsao, MDCreighton C. Tubb, MDKim K. Tucker, MDBradford S. Waddell, MDJonathan E. Webb, MDMitchell C. Weiser, MDPaul M. Wilkie, MDBradley W. Wills, MDJesse I. Wolfstadt, MDWendy W. Wong, MDEric J. Yakish, MDAdolph J. Yates Jr., MDRichard S. Yoon, MDKhalid M. Yousuf, MDMark W. Zawadsky, MDErik N. Zeegen, MDMichael G. Zywiel, MD, MSc, FRCSC7www.AAHKS.org/MeetingStaffMichael J. Zarski, JD Executive Director Joshua M. Kerr Deputy Executive DirectorAmy Bolivar Education Specialist Sharon M. Creed Accounting and Registration Manager Eileen M. Lusk Senior Director of MembershipRenalin J. Malvar Ledda Senior Director of Events and Operations Jeff Mitchell Director of Marketing and Corporate Relations Kenneth Robinson Communications ManagerChiara Rodgers, MPH, CCRC Senior Director of Research and Humanitarian ActivitiesStella Whitney Membership Operations Specialist Sigita Wolfe, MBA Senior Director of Education and Science2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program8EducationEDUCATIONAL ACTIVITY SCOPEThe 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting is designed to provide practicing orthopaedic surgeons with research based, state of the art information on diagnosis, surgical and non surgical treatment options and overall management of hip and knee conditions. This educational activity includes the review of the most current scientific research study findings, faculty and participant discussions and interactive symposia. It covers multiple clinical topics such as primary and revision total hip arthroplasty, primary and revision total knee arthroplasty, non arthroplasty, infection, complications other than infection as well as health policy. It is aimed at improving overall surgeon competence related to the care of patients with arthritis and degenerative disease.OBJECTIVESUpon completion of this educational activity, participants will be able to:• Synthesize the most current research study findings in hip and knee condition management• Evaluate various surgical and non surgical treatment options (e.g., primary total joint arthroplasty, revision total joint arthroplasty, non arthroplasty) in hip and knee condition management• Assess the efficacy of new treatment options through evidence based data• Interpret relevant health care policyACCREDITATION AND CME CREDITThe American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons (AAHKS) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. AAHKS designates this live activity for a maximum of 18 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity.CLAIM CME CREDITSOnce the meeting concludes, AAHKS will send an email and an app notification with a link to the Annual Meeting evaluation. At the end of the evaluation, you will be redirected to claim CME credit. It is the meeting attendee’s responsibility to claim credits based on the hour for hour participation in the educational activity. DISCLAIMERThe material presented at this 2022 Annual Meeting has been made available by AAHKS for educational purposes only. This content is not intended to represent the only method or practice appropriate for the medical situations discussed; it is intended to present a balanced and scientifically sound view, approach, statement or opinion of the faculty, which may be helpful to others who face similar situations, or afford a forum to discuss, debate and explore new and evolving topics. The presentation of topics and any data about clinical practices should not be interpreted as advocating for, or promoting, practices that are not, or not yet adequately based on current science, evidence and clinical reasoning.CONSENT AGREEMENTBy attending the Annual Meeting, participants acknowledge and agree that AAHKS and/or its agents may record the Program and related events, use audio and video recordings, photographs, and presentation materials such as slides and abstracts for AAHKS’s purposes, including but not limited to other educational products, news, advertising and promotional purposes, without compensation.FDA STATEMENTSome pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices demonstrated or discussed at the Annual Meeting have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or have been cleared by the FDA for specific purposes only. The FDA has stated that it is the responsibility of the physician to determine the FDA clearance status of each pharmaceuticals and/or medical device he or she wishes to use in clinical practice. The AAHKS policy provides that “off label” status of the device or pharmaceutical is also specifically disclosed (i.e. that the FDA has not approved labeling the device for the described purpose). Any device or pharmaceutical is being used “off label” if the described use is not set forth on the product’s approved label. 9www.AAHKS.org/MeetingDISCLOSUREEach participant in the Annual Meeting has been asked to disclose if he or she has received something of value from a commercial company or institution, which relates directly or indirectly to the subject of their presentation. AAHKS does not view the existence of these disclosed interests or commitments as necessarily implying bias or decreasing the value of the author’s participation in the course. Note that AAHKS takes measures to mitigate all relevant financial relationships.For the most up to date disclosure list, please visit www.AAHKS.org/Meeting.Thanks to:Smith+Nephew Stryker Zimmer Biometfor their generous educational Grants to help fund the AAHKS Annual MeetingSmith+Nephew Stryker Zimmer Biometfor their generous educational Grants to fund the AAHKS Resident Arthroplasty Course (Didactic)AerobiotixDePuy SynthesEnovisHeraeusSmith+Nephew StrykerTotal Joint OrthopedicsZimmer Biometfor their generous in kind donations to support the AAHKS Resident Bioskills Lab Course2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program10Presenting the 2022 Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award to Steven J. Meyer, MD AAHKS is proud to present the 2022 Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award to Steven J. Meyer, MD. Through Dr. Meyer’s organization, STEMM (Siouxland Tanzania Educational Medical Ministry), he has provided more than 1,000 free surgeries, imported over $5 million dollars of equipment and spent countless hours educating healthcare professionals. This award recognizes his leadership in medical mission trips to remote Massai villages providing healthcare to totally isolated people groups and introducing TJA to the country of Tanzania. STEMM was founded in 1996 and, since its conception, the philosophy of the organization has been to provide aid to persons of extreme poverty regardless of color, creed, gender or religion. A large focus has been to educate impoverished children and provide orphan care, humanitarian relief, medical services and training, agricultural improvement and community development, which includes feeding 5,500 children school lunch daily.“Dr. Meyer is a true advocate for the people of Tanzania, especially the orphans. I’ve witnessed his relentless drive and dedication personally. After a 24 hour flight home from Africa and with no hesitation, immediately resuming his clinical duties to balance responsibilities with his partners but all to remain devoted to his trips to Tanzania. Dr. Meyer’s care for the people of Tanzania is not a theoretical experience, but a real one,” says Brian D. Johnson, MD, a partner and friend of Dr. Meyer.Dr. Meyer graduated from the University of Iowa College of Medicine and completed his residency at the University of Kentucky, Shriner’s Hospital. He is fellowship trained in general orthopaedics and pediatric orthopaedics. The Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award recognizes AAHKS members who have distinguished themselves by providing humanitarian medical services and programs with a significant focus on musculoskeletal diseases and trauma including the hip and knee in the United States or abroad.For more information on the Lawrence D. Dorr, MD Humanitarian Award, please go to www.AAHKS.org/Humanitarian.11www.AAHKS.org/MeetingPresenting the 2022 Presidential Award to William G. Hamilton, MD AAHKS is proud to present the 2022 Presidential Award to William G. Hamilton, MD for all the outstanding service he has given to AAHKS since 2006. Since the beginning of his membership, Dr. Hamilton has been heavily involved, serving as faculty for the Orthopaedic Team Member Course, Resident Course, Ask the Experts sessions and many other capacities at AAHKS Annual and Spring Meetings throughout the years. Dr. Hamilton has also held various Committee positions as an AAHKS member, including the Patient and Public Relations, Quality Measures, Fellowship Match Oversight Committees and, of course, as the Chair of the Fellows Orthopaedic Continued AAHKS Learning (FOCAL) Committee one that Dr. Hamilton was very instrumental in creating. FOCAL arose as a response to the COVID 19 pandemic. Because elective surgeries were postponed at many institutions, there was concern that the pandemic might significantly impair the fellowship learning experience. To help augment the fellows’ learning experience, the FOCAL Initiative was created a free, online, interactive learning experience for surgeons in training that have chosen adult reconstruction as a specialty. Through FOCAL, arthroplasty fellows and senior residents are invited to listen to lectures from many of the country’s top adult reconstruction surgeons and participate in case discussions. As a result of the success of the initiative, AAHKS created the FOCAL Committee. Under Dr. Hamilton’s leadership, the FOCAL Committee continues to offer monthly webinars to augment fellowship training as well as promoting a fellowship training curriculum.“During a potential time of crisis for orthopaedic education due to the onset of the COVID pandemic, Dr. Hamilton and his team quickly filled the potential void with the establishment of the FOCAL curriculum. This educational platform, which continues today, provided the foundation at a time when other traditional opportunities were in jeopardy” says Bryan D. Springer, MD. Throughout Dr. Hamilton’s 20 plus year career as a board certified orthopaedic surgeon, he has been recognized countless times for his work. Dr. Hamilton graduated from the University of Cincinnati and completed his residency at the University of Pennsylvania. It is a great honor to recognize Dr. Hamilton as this year’s Presidential Award recipient an amazing resource for AAHKS who advocates for patients, his colleagues and the profession.2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program12Presenting the 2022 AAHKS Diversity Award to Richard E. Grant, MD It is with great joy that we present the inaugural AAHKS Diversity Award to Richard E. Grant, MD. Dr. Grant is a semi retired board certified orthopaedic surgeon, who is truly devoted to promoting diversity in orthopaedics. Dr. Grant has specialized in treating complex musculoskeletal conditions of the hip, knee and spine. During his time at Howard University Hospital, where he was the chair of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Dr. Grant was famously known for his community outreach endeavors, encouraging community members to tap into the orthopaedic care available at hospitals like Howard University, University Hospital of Cleveland, Ohio and Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia. His labors at each academic center focused on his love of teaching young orthopaedic residents to develop their surgical skills in the surgical sub specialties of lumbar spine surgery and total joint arthroplasty. He specialized in revision arthroplasty and complex primaries, particularly in those patients with sickle cell disease. Dr. Grant is a retired United States Air Force Lt. Col. veteran who earned his medical degree from Howard University School of Medicine. He completed his internship at the Kaiser Foundation Hospital in Oakland, California and his orthopaedic residency at the United States Air Force Wilford Hall Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas under the guidance of Dr. John L. Eady. Following his residency, he completed two prestigious fellowships in Joint Arthroplasty and Adult Spine Surgery. What makes Dr. Grant so remarkable and the best candidate for the Diversity Award is that, after all his years of residency and post residency training, he returned to the inner city to practice and remained in the urban community throughout his illustrious career. Promoting the same quality care that carefully addresses the orthopaedic needs of underserved patients in both majority and minority urban settings. It was important for him to share his expertise in joint replacement surgery, gender specific knee replacement and sickle cell disease related osteonecrosis with a community that could benefit from both research and academia. The majority of the patients in the community that Dr. Grant served were African Americans who usually exhibited more advanced diseases and debilitating deformities.In addition to his clinical work, Dr. Grant served on the AAOS Diversity Advisory Board and was the first African American president of the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery (ABOS), where he advised the board to become more inclusive toward women and minority orthopaedic surgeons. Throughout Dr. Grant’s 30 plus year career of working with orthopaedic residents, he empowered minority students and women to enter the field. He personally trained and educated more than 60 minority and female residents between 1988 and 2001 when he was the chairman of the Department of Orthopaedic surgery and associate professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at Howard University Hospital in Washington, D.C. "We are excited to honor Dr. Grant as the inaugural AAHKS Diversity Award recipient. He has been a long standing champion for ethnic and gender diversity in orthopaedics, and specifically hip and knee arthroplasty. His dedication to diversity and orthopaedic education evolved most notably as chair of orthopaedics at Howard University for 13 years. While the objective data on his impact is impressive, we were most struck by comments we received on how Dr. Grant made his residents and medical students feel. It is his ability to make minority and female surgeons in training feel not just competent and capable, but also included and important, that we wish to honor most,” says Muyibat A. Adelani, MD, Co Chair of AAHKS Diversity Advisory Board (DAB). 13www.AAHKS.org/MeetingPresenting the 2022 Women in Arthroplasty Empowerment Award to Amy Turk It is with great pleasure that AAHKS presents the Women in Arthroplasty (WIA) Empowerment Award to Amy Turk. Amy is the Director of Strategy and Innovation Global Hip Marketing for DePuy Synthes (Johnson and Johnson) and has experience in global strategic marketing, acquisitions and commercial integration. The WIA Empowerment Award recognizes a person in the orthopaedic community that has gone above and beyond to elevate and support women in arthroplasty in a unique and impactful way. Amy Turk’s work with DePuy Synthes' Women of Orthopaedics, dedication and most importantly her advocacy for women in arthroplasty has elevated our female members in AAHKS. These acts of leadership directly align with the WIA mission of promoting, mentoring and professionally developing women in arthroplasty. “Amy has been instrumental in rallying women in arthroplasty and creating the Women in Arthroplasty Committee (WIA) back in 2018. When I first met Amy, she asked where are the other women and how do we get women together? Like in industry, she saw a clear lack of representation and few women having a voice in our specialty. She has worked tirelessly to connect women in arthroplasty by hosting events to help develop our leadership skills, networking and connecting us with other non female arthroplasty surgeons as mentors and advocates. She advocates within her own business to make sure women in arthroplasty are on the podium and teaching courses,” says Linda I. Suleiman, MD.Amy is an active player in changing culture. She is a change agent that truly deserves to be honored as the recipient of the Women in Arthroplasty Empowerment Award. 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program14Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting15This symposium will educate arthroplasty surgeons on the forces driving change in the practice models and economics of a modern arthroplasty practice. We will cover topics from the drive to bundled payments, changes to regulatory framework, the role of outside capital, to the shift to population health moving forward. Specific focus will be paid to changes to Stark Law and Gainsharing rules which govern financial relationships in both hospital employed and private practice settings, the significant interest and influx of Private Equity funding, the ongoing evolution of legislative interventions in healthcare spending and the specific implications of the transition from fee for service medicine to value based care and ultimately population health for musculoskeletal care. Learning Objectives:1.To review the current economic, regulatory and legislative landscape driving change in the world of arthroplasty. 2.To critically evaluate the role of Private Equity and outside capital as it relates specifically to orthopaedic practices. 3.To identify where value based care and specifically population health are changing the way arthroplasty surgeons practice today and into the future.Outline:Introduction Ryan M. Nunley, MDRegulatory Principles Guiding Arthroplasty Economics Update for 2022 Michael P. Ast, MDNeed Some Extra Help? The Role of PE and Outside Capital in Orthopaedics R. Michael Meneghini, MDThe Legislative Push to Population Health James I. Huddleston III, MDThe Future of Value Based Care in Arthroplasty: Principles We All Need to Know Michael P. Bolognesi, MDDiscussion All Faculty NotesSymposium IThe Economics of Arthroplasty in 2022 and BeyondModerator: Ryan M. Nunley, MD Faculty: Michael P. Ast, MD, R. Michael Meneghini, MD, Michael P. Bolognesi, MD, James I. Huddleston III, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program16Paper #1Lessons Learned from the CJR Model at an Academic Tertiary Center: The Good, the Bad, and the UglyChancellor F. Gray, MD, Hernan A. Prieto Saavedra, MD, Hari K. Parvataneni, MD, Dennis Chen, MD, Justin T. Deen, MD, Luis Pulido, MDIntroduction: Our institution participated in the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) model from 2016 to 2020. Here we review lessons learned from a total joint arthroplasty (TJA) care redesign at a tertiary academic center amid changing 1) CJR rules, 2) inpatient only rules and 3) outpatient trends.Methods: Quality, financial and patient demographic data from the years prior to and during participation in CJR were obtained from a combination of institutional and Medicare provided, reconciled CJR performance data.Results: During CJR participation, there was significant improvement in quality metrics and efficiency of care: decreased LOS (3.94 to 2.17 days, p< 0.001), increased home discharge rate (63. to 80., p< 0.001), decreased readmission rate (13. to 6., p=0.06), and decreased complication rate (4. to 1., p=0.02). Despite an increase in true outpatients as well as new challenges that arose from changing inpatient only rules, which led voluntary misclassification of some inpatients as outpatient due to unclear outpatient classification rules (effectively removing the highest performing patients from CJR), our institution's Composite Quality Score increased from 4.4 to 17.6 (top quintile). Over the five year period, CMS saved an estimated $8,285,536 on 1,486 CJR cases, $7,488,206 on 1,343 non CJR cases, and $445,536 from the voluntary misclassification of 272 inpatients (25. of all Medicare patients in final year)—a total savings of $16,219,278 over 5 years. Despite significant physician time and effort leading to marked improvements in efficiency, quality, and significant cost savings for CMS, CJR participation resulted in a net penalty of $304,456 to our institution with no physician gainsharing. Conclusion: The benefits of CJR were tempered by the malalignment of incentives among payer, hospital and physician as well as a lack of transparency. Future payment models will need to be refined and built upon the lessons learned from CJR, including the successes and challenges.Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting17Introduction: Since the ACA was passed in 2010, reductions in Medicare reimbursement have led to larger discrepancies between the relative cost of Medicare patients and privately insured patients. The purpose of this study was to compare the medical costs and reimbursement of Medicare as compared to private insurance in patients undergoing total hip (THA) and total knee (TKA) arthroplasty. Methods: Patients of a single payer source who underwent primary TKA or THA arthroplasty at one institution between the dates of 1/4/21 and 6/30/2021 were included (n=833). Variables included insurance type, medical costs, prescriptions costs, target costs and surplus amounts. The primary outcome measure were the surplus values and magnitude between Medicare and non Medicare groups. T tests, ANOVA and Chi Squared tests were used for analysis. Results: THA represented of cases while TKA represented . Of these patients, 31. were Medicare and 68. were non Medicare. Overall, average medical cost was $27,534, average total cost was $27,914, average adjusted target cost was $35,431 and average surplus was $7,517. Significant differences were observed between Medicare and non Medicare in medical cost ($16,893 vs $32,416, p< 0.001), total cost ($17,334 vs $32,768, p< 0.001), adjusted target cost $22,083 vs $41,556 (p< 0.001) and surplus ($4,748 vs $8,788, p< 0.001). Deficits were reported in 12. of overall cases ( Medicare vs non Medicare, p< 0.001). Conclusion: Medicare target prices, total costs and surplus were significantly lower compared to non Medicare insurance plans. While fewer Medicare cases resulted in absolute institutional deficits, the lower average surplus demonstrates that reimbursement for these cases may lead to consistent strain on provider groups who may face additional overhead costs. This finding warrants further investigation.NotesPaper #2Lower Revenue Surplus in Medicare vs Non Medicare Total Joint ArthroplastyJustin A. Magnuson, MD, John Hobbs, Kalpak Sarangdhar, Peter A. Gold, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program18Introduction: Although total hip arthroplasty (THA) is one of the most successful operations in modern medicine, its reimbursement is tightly monitored by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and is regularly decreased both to reflect changing effort associated with the procedure and to balance the CMS budget. Previous studies have reported on decreasing THA reimbursement, but none have evaluated these changes across the lifespan of CMS's RVU based fee schedule. The purpose of this study is to report the reimbursement of THA from the advent of the Medicare Resource Based Relative Value Schedule (RBRVS).Methods: We performed a retrospective review of the CMS physician fee schedule for CPT code 27130 (THA) from 1992 to 2022 as published in the RBRVS. For each year during the study period, we recorded components of the total relative value unit (RVU) including work (wRVU), practice expenses (PE), malpractice, and the conversion factor (CF). We adjusted for inflation using the consumer price index (CPI), with a January 2022 reference date. Results: Between 1996 and 2022, there was a decrease in nominal CMS physician payments from $1,924 to $1,316 (), which translated to a real, CPI adjusted decrease of ($3,504 to $1,316). Over the same period, total RVUs dropped (47.17 to 38.02). The PE component of RVU decreased most dramatically, from 23.91 to 14.3 (). The conversion factor peaked in 1996 at 40.80 and has fallen to 34.61 in 2022. Conclusion: Over three decades, there has been a substantial decline in both nominal and inflation adjusted Medicare surgeon reimbursement for CPT code 27130, corresponding to a decrease in the total RVUs allocated to the procedure by CMS. Downward trends in reimbursement could create unintended access limitations or health care inequalities for Medicare patients as surgeons skew their payer mix to reflect financial pressures.NotesPaper #327130: A Reimbursement RetrospectiveRichard D. Southgate, MD, Erik Woelber, MD, Kathryn L. Schabel, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting19Introduction: The purpose of this study was to assess surgeon reimbursement among total joint arthroplasty patients with differing risk profiles within the Medicare population.Methods: The “2019 Medicare Physician and Other Provider” Medicare file was utilized. Data was filtered for all primary hip and knee arthroplasty procedures billed to Medicare in 2019. Patient demographics and