or damage caused by, the installed signs. a. The Sign Contractor shall retain, at their own expense, the services of a New York licensed Professional Engineer to perform all necessary engineering calculations and shall sign and seal the submittal of shop drawings for all signage elements installed on the exterior of the building, on overhead conditions of the interior, and on freestanding conditions of the interior. Copies of such drawings shall be submitted to the Owner prior to commencing fabrication. B. Comply with the most current versions of codes and requirements of all relevant local and state regulatory agencies, as referenced below. Where so required, tests shall be made and certificates of conformance shall be secured at the expense of the Sign Contractor. 1. NYC Construction Code 2. American National Standards ICC/ANSI A117.1, 2017 3. 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design: Chapter 7 4. National Fire Protection Association 101 5. New York City Fire Code 6. New York City Local Law 26 7. Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) 5th Edition C. Structural Performance: Provide signs capable of withstanding the effects of gravity loads and the following loads and stresses within limits and under conditions indicated, determined according to ASCE 7, "Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures": D. UL Compliance: Provide lighting fixtures and electrical components that are UL labeled and listed. E. All work, including electrical work, shall be constructed as complete systems, including all stiffeners, fasteners, welding, sealants, jointing, wiring, fittings, lamps, switches, circuits, connections, and miscellaneous pieces required to enable the work to function properly. F. Work shall be performed by competent workmen and shall be uniform in detail, design, and finish and of the best quality, free from defects impairing strength, durability, and appearance. Workmen shall be thoroughly trained and experienced in the necessary crafts and who are completely familiar with the specified requirements and methods needed for proper performance of the work of this section. G. Methods of fabrication, joining, finishing, and installation shall be according to the manufacturer’s instructions for the use of any products, materials, fittings, and equipment used in their construction. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 9 OF 31 H. The Sign Contractor shall be responsible for the quality of all materials and workmanship required for the execution of this contract, including the materials and workmanship of any firms or individuals who act as his subcontractors. The Sign Contractor shall be responsible for providing subcontractors with complete and up to date information. I. Written dimensions on drawings shall have precedence over scaled dimensions. In the event of conflict between written and scaled dimensions, or if significant written dimensions are missing, the Sign Contractor shall request such information from the Designer. J. Failure to request clarification of inadequacy, omission or conflict will not relieve the Sign Contractor of responsibility for performing work in accordance with requirements of the Contract Documents. K. No fabrication or installation materials or procedures shall be used that will change the visual quality or have an adverse effect on existing materials and surfaces. All damaged surfaces and materials shall be restored to their original condition and appearance by the Sign Contractor. L. Warranty: See Section 1.9 Below. 1.5 ACTION SUBMITTALS A. All submittals shall occur in the sequence outlined below. Submittals that are out of sequence may be rejected or held for approval pending prerequisite submittals. 1. Design Consultant shall reject any submittal, without review, that does not conform to the requirements outlined below for each submittal type. Such rejections shall not be cause for delays to the overall project schedule and does not constitute a “submittal round.” 2. All submissions shall be reviewed and received final approved by Design Consultant, in addition to stamped engineering drawings, where required prior to fabrication of project sign requirements. B. Schedule of Production and Installation 1. Submit a detailed production and installation schedule for all sign types including dates for submission and approval of all required samples, shop drawings and other submissions required under this contract. 2. Allow (10) ten working days for Design Consultant / Owner review of each submittal type and each revised submittal round. 3. Schedule to allow for adequate review and up to (2) rounds of re submittals without jeopardizing the project schedule. C. Shop Drawings 1. Submit and obtain approval prior to preparing Prototypes. 2. Include drawing index with shop submissions 3. Submit shop drawings showing proposed details of fabrication and installation of all components. Show actual fabrication methods intended to be performed by the Sign Contractor’s shop and actual installation methods to be employed. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 10 OF 31 4. Sign Contractor’s Shop Drawing may NOT extract any drawn content from the Design Intent Drawings. Any such submittal shall be rejected. 5. Dimensions indicated on the Design Intent Drawings shall take precedence over scaled dimensions. Sign Contractor shall be responsible for all dimensioning and must notify Design Consultant of any discrepancies, to await clarification, prior to proceeding. 6. Include plans, elevations, enlarged details, vertical and horizontal section details, etc. to the degree required to demonstrate full fabrication and installation means and methods. Details not shown are to be at least equal in quality to those detailed. a. Connections, angles, shapes and details shown in Design Intent Drawings are suggestive. Sign Contractor is responsible for proper engineering of all sign components. 7. Include as separate detail drawings all elements that are specific to the production of Partial Prototypes to confirm partial prototype requirements, see Section F below. 8. Drawings shall be printed at an architectural scale sufficient to read all details. Include large scale details of construction, anchorages and accessory items. a. Installation elevation to be a minimum of 1/2” = 1’ 0” b. Sign Elevations to be a minimum of 3/4” = 1’ 0” c. Section details of small sign types to be a minimum of 6” = 1’ 0” d. Section details of large sign types to be a minimum 3”=1’ 0” 9. All components are to be sized, reinforced and detailed as required for their particular application and location. All connections into existing surfaces are to be field verified and / or fully coordinated with architectural conditions prior to submitting sign shops drawings. a. Where sizes of signs may be affected by dimensions of surfaces on which they are installed, verify dimensions by field measurement. Show recorded measurements on shop drawings. b. For individual dimensional letters 1). Demonstrate coordination with any seams or obstructions in the architectural surface to which they will be installed. 2). Clearly and accurately show, with easily readable lines all elements and their intended spacing. 3). For pin mounted letters include locations of pin mounts. 10. Confer with the Design Consultant regarding any critical items before shop drawings are started, and advise the Design Consultant of any significant discrepancies in field measurements or operational difficulties. 11. All variations from the Contract Documents shall be shown on the shop drawings and shall be specifically identified as such by the Contractor. All proposed variations shall equal or surpass the requirements of the originally specified items with regard to appearance, finish, material qualities, size, etc. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 11 OF 31 12. Sign Contractor shall provide a licensed engineer’s details to provide suitable materials, gauges, footings, anchors, materials compatibility, structural integrity, etc., as required for proper and secure mounting or installation and in accordance with all local sign codes. Show all anchorages and accessory items. 13. All Sign Requirements that are specified to be installed perpendicular to an architectural surface, and that extend out over any pedestrian area is to be engineered, manufactured and installed/hung to meet or exceed the performance criteria specified by General Contractor/Owner; to conform with profiles indicated and to other requirements of Contract Documents; to satisfy the requirements of authority having jurisdiction; and to provide structurally sound assemblies capable of withstanding minimum specified performance criteria without failure. D. Letter and Word Spacing Samples 1. Submit and obtain approval prior to preparing Graphic Layouts. Submittal may be concurrent with Item C Shop Drawings, above. 2. Letter and Word Spacing, as shown on Design Intent Drawings, must be reproduced by the Sign Contractor when preparing Graphic Layouts. Sign Contractor shall make adjustments as required within their electronic drafting programs to match the letter and word spacing specified within the Design Drawings. 3. Prepare and submit (1) full size typical layout of each sign type for review and verification of letter and word spacing prior to preparation of full Graphic Layout submittal. 4. The Design Consultant will review the submittal for the correct letter, word, and line spacing as specified in the Design Documents. Typographic characters shall be sharp, accurately aligned on their baseline, of consistent density, and free from defects. E. Graphic Layouts 1. Design Drawings include specifications for all graphics components (i.e. type, symbols, maps, diagrams, etc.) Sign Contractor is responsible for creating all unique artwork necessary to produce the signs, except where noted in the Design Drawings. a. For code required maps on emergency egress signage, Design Consultant will provide one (1) Sample Map to indicate graphic styles. Sign Contractor shall be responsible for creating unique final map artwork for all signs in all required locations. 2. Submit full size PDFs of fabrication ready artwork of each unique sign location, as outlined in the Message Schedule, showing all components, color breaks, and messages. Label each layout with its location number. a. Submittal will be reviewed by the Design Consultant for conformance to the Letter and Word Spacing Sample Submittal, as well as, overall size, sharpness, alignment, accuracy of letterform, and copy composition. b. Typesetting shall have proper letter, word and line spacing as specified in the Design Documents. Characters shall be sharp, accurately aligned on their baseline, and of consistent density. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 12 OF 31 3. Layouts that do not fit full size on 11”x17” paper may be submitted at half or one quarter full size only. All submittals must be able to be read with an architectural scale. 4. Copy shown on any drawings and templates is intended as a guideline for layout and type size only. Refer to the Message Schedule for exact wording for each layout. Messages should be reproduced as described in the copy column of the schedule; parenthetical information is for the fabricator’s information, and describes other graphic components, such as symbols, which should be incorporated into the layout. F. Material and Finish Samples 1. Submit and obtain approval prior to preparing Prototypes. Submittal may be concurrent with any of items C through E above. 2. Color match samples to be prepared on actual sign material substrates and employing all actual processes specified in Contract Documents. Clearly indicate on the back the color specification, date, and submittal number. 3. Coordinate with General Contractor/Architect to obtain any Architectural Control Samples required for matching purposes. 4. Design Consultant’s review of samples will be for color and texture only. Compliance with all other requirements is the exclusive responsibility of the Sign Contractor. 5. Two (2) sets of 4” x 4” samples for each type of material, color, and finish combination required for production of the contracted work. One (1) set of approved samples will be kept by the Design Consultant as a record to match against completed installation and one (1) set by the Owner for future reference (see Section 3.7 Closeout Submissions). a. First Surface Paint and Coatings: For each color specified, submit 1/8” thick aluminum sheet with paint and clear coat finish. Paint color match to be shop applied, manufacturer’s lab samples are not acceptable. b. Second Surface Paint: For each color specified, submit 3/8” thick frosted acrylic sheet with paint finish. c. Silkscreen Inks: For each graphic and background combination specified, submit 3/8” thick frosted acrylic sheet with first surface silkscreen text, second surface paint background, and clear coat finish. d. Die Cut Vinyl: For each color specified, submit 3/8” thick clear acrylic sheet with applied vinyl. e. Printed Vinyl: For each color specified, submit 3/8” thick clear acrylic sheet with applied vinyl f. Direct to Substrate Printed Colors: For each graphic and background combination specified, submit 1/8” thick aluminum with painted background and printed graphic, and clear coat finish G. Workmanship Prototypes 1. Prototypes to be prepared pending review and confirmation of initial Shop Drawing and Material and Finish Samples described above. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 13 OF 31 a. Shop Drawing review shall include any clarification drawings required to detail elements of partial prototypes to confirm inclusion of all materials, finishes, fasteners, structure, mounting methods, detailing, etc. that are part of the complete sign type. 2. One (1) complete or partial prototype sample of each types as noted in the Prototype Schedule below shall be fabricated for review, testing and approval by Owner/Design Consultant, prior to manufacture of any of the final signs of any type for installation. a. For illuminated signs, provide prototype installed on a painted plywood or MDF backer to simulate installed conditions. Provide external power source wired to prototype to fully demonstrate illuminated sign. 3. Workmanship Prototypes represent the full breadth of techniques required in the sign program. Design Consultant reserves the right to adjust final details, sizes, colors, materials and finishes, of any sign type in the program, as a result of reviewing Workmanship Prototypes. 4. Upon acceptance of Prototypes, Sign Contractor to submit revised Shop Drawings of all sign types to demonstrate final detailing based upon Prototype review comments. 5. After inspection and approval all prototypes must be delivered to the Design Consultant and will become his property as a record to match against completed installation. In no event shall any prototypes, whether approved or not, be permanently installed as part of the finished work. 6. Prototype Schedule [EDIT / DELETE AS REQUIRED.] a. Full Prototypes 1). Sign Type B1 2). Sign Type B2 3). Sign Type C1 4). Sign Type D2 5). Sign Type D4 6). Sign Type G2 7). Sign Type H2 8). Sign Type M1 b. Partial Prototypes 1). Sign Type A1 1’ 3/4” x 2’ 0” x 2” 2). Sign Type A5 1’ 3/4” x 2’ 0” x 1 5/8” 3). Sign Type C4 1’ 6” x 1’ 10” 4). Sign Type E1 2’ 0” x 3’ 0” x 4 1/2” H. Installation Templates 1. To be provided on site at time of installation, unless otherwise determined by the project schedule, one (1) full size backline set of letter and word spacing templates of all dimensional letters and numbers. 2. Provide heavy paper template pattern to establish character spacing and to locate holes for fasteners. Install template on site at required locations and obtain Owner / Design Consultant approval before completing any installation. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 14 OF 31 1.6 DELIVERY STORAGE AND HANDLING A. Clearly label the contents of all packages. B. Coordinate with Owner for on site staging and secure storage. C. Deliver, store and handle all packages so as to protect them from any kind of damage and to protect the installed work and materials of other trades. D. Inspect all components for evidence of damage at site before installation. Damaged materials shall not be incorporated into the work and shall be removed from the site immediately. E. The Contractor shall replace at his own expense all work judged damaged or defective before Substantial Completion. 1.7 MAINTENANCE MANUAL 1. See Section 3 Close Out Submissions. 1.8 OWNERSHIP OF MATERIALS A. All artwork and templates created by the Sign Contractor for the production of the work under this contract shall be the property of the Owner, and shall be delivered to the Owner upon request. B. All artwork supplied by the Design Consultant / Owner remain the property of the Design Consultant / Owner and are temporarily supplied for reproduction purposes only. 1.9 WARRANTY A. General: The following warranty shall not deprive the Owner of other rights the Owner may have under other provisions of the contract Documents and shall be in addition to, and run concurrent with, other warranties made by the Contractor under requirements of the Contract Documents. B. Sign Warranty: Submit two year written warranty, signed by the Sign Contractor and Installer, warranting that the architectural signage and/or finishes will not develop excessive fading or excessive non uniformity of color or shade and will not crack, peel, pit or corrode or otherwise fail as a result of defects, within the warranty period, make necessary repairs or replacement at the convenience of the Owner or facility’s management. Failures include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. “Excessive Fading”: A change in appearance which is perceptible and objectionable as determined by the Design Consultant when visually compared with the original color range standards. 2. “Excessive Non Uniformity”: Non Uniform fading during the period of the guarantee, to the extent that adjacent panels have a color difference greater that the original acceptance range of color. 3. “Will Not Pit or Otherwise Corrode”: No Pitting or other type of corrosion discernible from a distance of 10’ 0”, resulting from the natural elements in the atmosphere at the project site. 4. Coating degradation 5. Chalking NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 15 OF 31 6. Structural failure 7. Delamination of applied graphics 8. Delamination or degradation of applied anti graffiti coatings C. Defects or faulty materials found during the warranty period will be identified to Sign Contractor by Owner. Such defective materials are to be repaired and/or replaced at Sign Contractors own expense, together with any damage to furnishings, fixtures, finishes, or other equipment that may be damaged as a result of these effects. D. If Sign Contractor shall fail to repair, replace, rebuild, or restore defective or damaged work promptly after receiving notice, Owner shall have the right to have the work completed by others in the same manner as provided for in the completion of a defaulted contract, and to deduct the cost thereof from the amount so deposited hereunder. The balance, if any, shall be returned to Sign Contractor without interest. If the amount so deposited is insufficient to cover the cost of such work, Sign Contractor shall be liable to pay such deficiency on demand by Owner. E. Owner certificate setting forth the fair and reasonable cost of repairing, replacing, rebuilding, or restoring any damaged or defective work when performed by one other than Sign Contractor and this cost shall be binding and conclusive as to the amount thereof upon Sign Contractor. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 16 OF 31 PART 2 PRODUCT 2.1 MANUFACTURERS A. Where named products are specified as identified below, subject to compliance with requirements specific to this project, provide named product, substitutions are not permitted. 1. Infonorm Modular Sign Systems, Inc. Address: 4820 Joslyn Road, Lake Orion, MI 48359 Telephone: (248) 276 9027. Email: sales@infonorm.com Website: www.infonorm.ch B. Product equivalents: subject to compliance with requirements specific to this project, accepted manufacturers listed in Part 2 are considered to have been prequalified in conformance with Part 1 of this section. 2.2 MATERIALS A. Acrylic Sheet 1. ASTM D 4802, Category A 1 (cell cast sheet), Type UVA (UV absorbing). 2. The edges of acrylic sheet components shall be smooth and free of saw marks, chips, cracks or other blemishes and shall be square to the face. All visible edges are to be hand or machine polished unless specified otherwise. Flame polishing shall not be permitted. 3. Size and cut acrylic sheet scheduled to be “glazed” or contained in a frame, as required to allow for expansion and contraction. 4. Laminated sheets and welded joints shall be free of gaps and bubbles and shall be continuously sealed and clear. 5. Use special care in fabrication and installation of acrylic sheets to prevent scratching, staining or other imperfections. 6. When there is no possibility of danger from other work to be performed, remove protective coverings on acrylic sheets and remove scratches using approved acrylic polish. Remove internal and external dust and other dirt. Treat surfaces with an anti static polish on completion. 7. Provide complete cleaning instructions recommended by acrylic manufacturer for safe cleaning of acrylic sheets. B. Frosted Acrylic 1. Acrylite Satinice (P95) Colorless 0F00 SC: Premium quality manufactured by Lucite International, Evonik Industries, Arkema Inc. or approved equal. C. Non Glare Acrylic 1. Acrylite non glare (P99) Colorless 0A000 AR : Premium quality manufactured by Lucite International, Evonik Industries, Arkema Inc. or approved equal. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 17 OF 31 2. For modular sign type insert windows, acrylic sheet shall be Infoglass non glare as manufactured by Infonorm® sign systems, or approved equal. D. Sintra 1. Moderately expanded closed cell polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in a homogenous sheet with a low gloss matte finish. Color: Bright White. 2. For direct to substrate printing: a. Surface should be cleaned with isopropyl alcohol and be free of any surface contaminants prior to commencing. Do not use thinners, soaps, or cleaners containing silicone. b. Surfaces should be free of scratches that may telegraph through the graphic. Remove small scratches or dents by rapidly fanning a heat gun over the affected area. c. Use Aqueous, Solvent based, or UV curable inks as required. Consult printer manufacturer for recommended inks and test inks for compatibility. E. Aluminum 1. Aluminum extrusions shall be of alloy and temper recommended by aluminum producer for type of use and finish and with not less than strength and durability properties specified in ASTM B221 for 6063 T5. 2. Aluminum sheet shall be of 6061 T6, 5005, or 5052 H38 alloys and temper as recommended by aluminum producer or finisher for use type and finish indicated, and with not less than strength and durability properties specified in ASTM B209 for 5005 H15. Sheet and plate shall be shop primed and of best architectural quality; stretcher leveled and visually flat. 3. Aluminum Castings: ASTM B 26, of alloy and temper recommended by aluminum producer and finisher for casting process used and for use and finish indicated. 4. Fabrication a. Aluminum shall be of best commercial quality and their various forms shall be straight and true. There shall be no scratches, scars, creases or buckles. b. All exposed edges must be softened or eased and not have sharp edges or corners. c. Where aluminum is shop fabricated, all joints, returns and the like shall be properly joined together and welded edges shall be ground smooth to proper aluminum finish. d. Aluminum in contact with dissimilar metals shall have bituminous or other protective coating to prevent electrolytic action. 5. Finishes a. Comply with NAAMM's "Metal Finishes Manual for Architectural and Metal Products" for recommendations for applying and designating finishes. Finish designations prefixed by AA comply with the system established by the Aluminum Association for designating aluminum finishes. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 18 OF 31 b. Anodized Aluminum: Provide Mill 5005 alloy (anodized quality) aluminum with brushed and clear anodic finish: AAMA 611, AA M12C22A41, Class 1, 0.018 mm or thicker. c. Baked Enamel Finish: AA C12C42R1x (Chemical Finish: cleaned with inhibited chemicals; Chemical Finish: acid chromate fluoride phosphate conversion coating; Organic Coating: as specified below). Apply baked enamel complying with paint manufacturer's written instructions for cleaning, conversion coating, and painting. d. Organic Coating: Thermosetting, modified acrylic enamel primer/topcoat system complying with AAMA 2603 except with a minimum dry film thickness of 1.5 mils , medium gloss. e. Color: As indicated on Contract Documents. F. Steel 1. Steel Sheet: Uncoated, cold rolled, ASTM A 1008, commercial steel, Type B, exposed or electrolytic zinc coated, ASTM A 591, with steel sheet substrate complying with ASTM A 1008, commercial steel, exposed. 2. Steel Members Fabricated from Plate or Bar Stock: ASTM A 529 or ASTM A 572, 42,000 psi minimum yield strength. 3. Reinforcing bars for concrete footings to be ASTM A 615 / A 615M, Grade 60, as required by engineering. 4. Galvanized Steel Sheet: ASTM A 653, G90 coating, either commercial or forming steel. 5. For steel exposed to view on completion, provide materials having flat, smooth surfaces without blemishes. Do not use materials whose surfaces exhibit pitting, seam marks, roller marks, rolled trade names, or roughness. 6. Fabrication a. Surface Preparation: Remove mill scale and rust, if present, from uncoated steel, complying with SSPC SP 5/NACE No. 1, “White Metal Blast Cleaning,” or SSPC SP 8, “Pickling.” b. All steel shall be galvanized in accordance with ASTM A123. 7. Finishes a. Surface Preparation: Remove mill scale and rust, if present, from uncoated steel, complying with SSPC SP 5/NACE No. 1, "White Metal Blast Cleaning," or SSPC SP 8, "Pickling." b. Factory Priming for Painted Finish: Apply shop primer specified below immediately after surface preparation and pretreatment. c. Shop Primer: Manufacturer's or fabricator's standard, fast curing, lead and chromate free, universal primer, selected for resistance to normal atmospheric corrosion, for compatibility with substrate and field applied finish paint system indicated, and for capability to provide a sound foundation for field applied topcoats despite prolonged exposure. d. Baked Enamel Finish: Immediately after cleaning and pretreating, apply the manufacturer's standard two coat, baked enamel finish consisting of prime coat and thermosetting topcoat. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 19 OF 31 Comply with paint manufacturer's written instructions for applying and baking to achieve a minimum dry film thickness of 2 mils. 1). Gloss: Satin, unless otherwise noted. G. Stainless Steel 1. Stainless Steel Sheet: ASTM A 240 or ASTM A 666, stretcher leveled standard of flatness. Type 304 for interior applications and Type 316 or 316L for exterior applications. 2. All exposed edges must be softened or eased and not have sharp edges or corners. 3. Finishes a. Directional Satin Finish: No. 4 finish, 150 Grit, Horizontal Grain, unless noted otherwise. b. Non Directional: Angel hair Finish unless noted otherwise. c. Remove tool and die marks and stretch lines or blend into finish. Grind and polish surfaces to produce uniform, directionally textured, polished finish indicated, free of cross scratches. Run grain with the long dimension of each piece. d. When polishing is completed, passivate and rinse surfaces. Remove embedded foreign matter and leave surfaces chemically clean. H. Sign Panels 1. Provide smooth sign panel surfaces constructed to remain flat under installed conditions within a tolerance of plus or minus 1/16 inch measured diagonally from corner to corner. 2. Coordinate dimensions and attachment methods to produce message panels with closely fitting joints. Align edges and surfaces with one another in the relationship indicated. 3. Increase material thickness or reinforce with concealed stiffeners or backing materials as needed to produce surfaces without distortion, buckles, warp, or other surface deformations. 4. Continuously weld joints and seams, unless other methods are indicated; grind, fill, and dress welds to produce smooth, flush, exposed surfaces with welds invisible after final finishing. I. Welding 1. Welding materials and practices shall conform to the requirements of the latest edition of American Welding Society code for steel and aluminum. Shop welders shall be certified by AWS. Welding rods shall be of a composition compatible to the base metal being welded. 2. Fabrication shall be accomplished using the highest standards of workmanship. All pieces shall be saw cut and carefully fit together. All visible connections shall be full welded and ground flush and smooth. All visible surfaces and connections shall be without visible grounding marks, surface differentiation or variation. J. Hardware NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 20 OF 31 1. Anchor bolts shall conform to ASTM A576 with a minimum yield strength of 50,000 PSI. Hexagonal nuts and washers shall be furnished with each bolt. 2. High strength bolts (other than anchor bolts), nuts and washers shall conform to ASTM A325. 3. Nelson type threaded studs shall be low carbon mild steel with a minimum yield strength of 50,000 PSI. 4. Non ferrous metal or hot dip galvanized anchors and inserts for exterior installations and elsewhere as required for corrosion resistance and to prevent staining of surrounding surfaces. Use toothed steel or lead expansion bolt devices for drilled in place anchors. Furnish inserts, as required, to be set into concrete or masonry work. 5. Where mechanical fasteners and hardware are required, they shall be of adequate thickness, length and construction to properly secure the sign unit. Any visible portion of any mounting device shall be finished to match adjacent sign surface, unless otherwise specified. 6. All exposed screws shall be countersunk and painted to match adjacent surface unless otherwise noted. 7. Metal fasteners and hardware in contact with dissimilar metals shall have a protective coating or neoprene shields to prevent electrolytic action. K. Pin Mounts 1. Fabricate from threaded studs and permanently affix to the component to be installed. All studs shall be square to the face of the component. a. Epoxied, welded, or drilled studs shall be fabricated with no distortion or discoloration to exposed surfaces. 2. Use a minimum of four (4) studs per plaque, two (2) studs per dimensional letter. 3. Silicone adhesive shall be used to install pin mounts. Receiving hole shall be of sufficient size to allow positioning and shall have clean edges and neat appearance. a. Support sign components with removable tape or other mechanical means until permanent adhesives are set, without damaging surrounding surfaces L. Adhesives and Tapes 1. Adhesives required in fabrication and installation shall be compatible with the materials to be laminated or adhered and shall only be used as redundant to mechanical fasteners. 2. Adhesives shall be used in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer of the adhesives and the material to be laminated or adhered. 3. Surfaces on which adhesives are to be applied shall be smooth, clean and free of dust, dirt, grease, fingerprints or other foreign matter. 4. Adhesives shall be guaranteed not to deteriorate, discolor, delaminate or fail in adhesion for any reason including exposure to heat, sunlight, weathering or other environmental conditions. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 21 OF 31 5. Adhesives shall not change the color of, or in any way deteriorate, the materials to which they are being applied. 6. Visible joints shall be even and free from air bubbles and other defects. 7. Adhesive Tapes a. VHB mounting tapes for permanent installation shall be premium quality double coated acrylic tape such as manufactured by 3M (VHB Tape) or approved equal. Urethane foam tapes will not be allowed. b. Unless otherwise indicated, when used for permanent installation, adhesive mounting tape shall be 1/2" wide and 1/16" thick. Coverage shall be at least one continuous strip of tape at four inch intervals. No tape shall be closer than 1/4" from the edge of any component. 8. Construction Adhesives a. Silicone adhesives shall be clear, ready to use, high performance, premium quality materials, such as manufactured by General Electric (GE 1200), or approved equal. b. Epoxy adhesives shall be two component, thermal setting, premium quality materials such as manufactured by Devcon (Two Ton Epoxy), or approved equal. M. Tactile Signs 1. Interior Tactile Signs a. Photopolymer: 0.032 inch (0.8 mm) thick moisture resistant, non glare interior nylon photopolymer on ultraviolet resistant clear PETG sign base to create thicknesses as specified on Contract Drawings in single piece construction. Laminated photopolymers, added on characters, raster Braille, and engraved characters are not acceptable. b. Thermoformed: 1/4” Thick non glare acrylic, compression molded to achieve integral raised letters and integral raised Grade 2 Braille in single piece construction. Laminated photopolymers, added on characters, raster Braille, and engraved characters are not acceptable c. Assure compliance with the ADA Standards for Accessible Design: Chapter 7 and National Fire Protection Association 101. d. Process instructions for manufacturer approved methods, equipment, and fabrication techniques. Use only computer generated, professional grade film. Vellum film is not acceptable. e. Use Matthews or Carbit automotive grade acrylic polyurethane finishes. Lacquer based finishes are not acceptable. 2. Photoluminescent Tactile Signs a. Photoluminescent matte white rigid PVC sheet of premium quality such as manufactured by Permalight®, (Item No. 81 1026), or approved equal b. Compression molded to achieve integral raised letters and integral raised braille to assure compliance with the ADA Standards for Accessible Design: Chapter 7 and National Fire Protection Association 101. NYU LANGONE HEALTH + DESIGN CONSULTANT Specific Project Name Here Signage Technical Specifications Year MONTH Day Standards Manual V.4 PAGE 22 OF 31 3. Exterior Tactile Signs a. Etched Zinc Signs: 1/8” thick Alloy plate. 1). Zinc must be able to accept a chemical etching process for fabrication of raised numbers and letters with corresponding Grade II braille on metal background, to conform to 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. 2). All exposed