Dr. Hernandez, at Tamale Teaching Hospital. These experts are leading projects in medicine, pediatrics, mental health, and population health. “These NYU Langone specialists are identifying priorities based on their day-to-day experiences and their discussions with their Ghanaian colleagues, and then translating these priorities into programs and initiatives,” says Dr. Vedanthan. The established foundation of trust and relationship-building now facilitates short-term visits by other NYU Langone faculty and trainees as well. “It’s a partnership, not a project,” Dr. Hernandez says. “Building trust takes time and can be hard. But once you have that trust, what you can create together is really meaningful and impactful—and beautiful.” Obstetrics and Gynecology, Global Health Sasha Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology and population health. She serves as the Obstetrics and Gynecology Lead for AMPATH Ghana. Her research interests include global health, capacity building, increasing access to equitable reproductive health, and implementation research. Cardiology, Global Health Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH, is an associate professor of medicine and population health. His research interests include global health, cardiovascular disease, climate change and health, transdisciplinary implementation research, and capacity building. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations Endocrine educator Dr. Melissa Sum is rethinking the toolkit for specialty training. Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk Ongoing trials probe the relationship between cholesterol-lowering and vascular disease in diabetes. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery An expert discusses bariatric surgery, a well-tolerated and effective treatment option for adolescent obesity. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions An expert discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia, rare conditions that can inform treatments for more prevalent lipid disorders. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Osteochondral lesions of the talus often result in early-onset osteoarthritis in the ankle joint if left untreated. Due to the avascular nature of articular cartilage, which limits its healing capacity, these ankle injuries are typically managed through surgical intervention. However, surgical treatments alone often lead to the formation of fibrocartilage, which is less tribologically and mechanically robust compared to the native hyaline cartilage of the joint. Consequently, biologic adjuvants are increasingly being explored for their potential to enhance cartilage healing and promote a hyaline-like quality. In 2017, at the inaugural International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle, it was agreed that certain biologic adjuvants could be considered as part of a conservative management strategy for treating these ankle lesions. “Medicine is constantly evolving and improving. We still have to do quality basic science and clinical studies to show that these biologics are effective,” says NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon John G. Kennedy, MD . “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’re still going to operate. It’s just that now we’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” To help surgeons sort through the expanding roster of adjuvants for ankle cartilage injuries, Dr. Kennedy and a collaborator highlighted some of the most promising options Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons NYU Langone’s Foot and Ankle Center has long used platelet-rich plasma (PRP), an autologous product that is not only a potent anti-inflammatory but also a downregulator of metalloproteinases. Through that activity, PRP can help control joint homeostasis and stop cartilage destruction. Dr. Kennedy’s team has shown that a single in-office PRP injection is as effective as serial injections for giving patients with small chondral defects some symptomatic relief. He cautions, however, that the adjuvant doesn’t contain stem cells, contrary to some claims, and is more chondroprotective than chondrogenic. “It doesn’t produce a new joint or new cartilage,” he says, “but in small areas you can certainly affect your fibrocartilage infill, which may be helpful in the short term or medium term.” Concentrated Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrated bone marrow aspirate (CBMA), another widely used biologic, is typically extracted from a patient’s pelvic bone in an operating room, centrifuged, and then injected into the ankle joint. Unlike PRP, Dr. Kennedy says, CBMA contains a small quantity of stem cells. In the context of the joint, researchers believe that injected stem cells can be engulfed by macrophages or monocytes, which then become activated and contribute to a biological milieu known as the secretome. In the right environment, the secretome can have chondrogenic, chondroprotective, immune modulatory, and antibacterial effects. “We’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect.” “There are multiple downstream effects of a secretome within a joint, which is a much greater effect than we previously thought about these stem cells,” Dr. Kennedy says. “That’s a very exciting area of work here at NYU Langone: we’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect from patient to patient based on the spectrum of what they have in their bone marrow.” Micronized Adipose Tissue Based on research suggesting that fat cells can be chondrogenic, NYU Langone’s orthopedic surgeons have also been assessing micronized adipose tissue as a potential solution for post-traumatic osteoarthritis in the ankle joint. In the first study of its kind in the United States, Dr. Kennedy and colleagues showed that injected fat cells are safe and potentially beneficial in patients with post-traumatic osteoarthritis of the ankle. The micronized adipose tissue, he suspects, contains additional factors that may add to the effect. The team is investigating different formulations to increase the strategy’s effectiveness, and has seen promising results in patients with knee osteoarthritis as well. “We’re not growing new joints. We’re simply protecting that joint, removing the cause of the symptoms, and prolonging the life of the joint for as long as we can,” Dr. Kennedy says. Hyaluronic Acid and Other Injectables Another biologic, hyaluronic acid, acts like a chondroprotective adjunct with some added anti-inflammatory and chondrogenic properties when injected into the knee joint. “We use it as an adjunct to many cases involving an osteochondral lesion or long-term post-traumatic osteoarthritis, and the results of that are very encouraging,” Dr. Kennedy says. In addition, the medical center’s orthopedic researchers are collaborating on investigations of other injectable agents, like a lubricin mimetic. “Lubricin is the true WD-40 of the joint,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage is massively exciting for the future.” Ongoing clinical trials are assessing the effectiveness of a recombinant protein that mimics lubricin’s properties. “I think that’s going to be the next great breakthrough in terms of prolonging the life of many of these arthritic joints,” he says. As an acknowledged leader in the field, NYU Langone will host the 2025 International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle to review the latest progress and clinical results from around the world. “I think we’re really at the tip of the spear in many of these chondrogenic and chondroprotective biologics,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage, to me, is massively exciting for the future.” John G. Kennedy, MD, FRCS, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery. As director of the Foot and Ankle Center at NYU Langone Health, he specializes in sports injuries including cartilage injuries, Achilles tendon injuries, ankle instability, and ligament reconstruction. Latest in Orthopedics After a successful osseointegration and recovery, the patient is able to walk unassisted with the new titanium connector attached to his prosthetic leg. Osseointegration Enhances Post-Amputation Connection with Prosthesis In August 2022, a 46-year-old truck driver presented to NYU Langone Health’s multidisciplinary after his left leg had been crushed between a truck and loading dock and he had undergone a left transfemoral amputation. The man, active in sports prior to his injury, suffered from debilitating nerve pain and phantom limb syndrome and struggled with the fit and use of his traditional prosthetic. Orthopedic surgeons and center co-directors Omri Ayalon, MD Jacques Hacquebord, MD , performed a new two-stage osseointegration surgical procedure to implant a permanent titanium prosthetic connector in the man’s left femur to enhance the fit between his thigh and prosthetic leg. “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Compared to traditional socket prostheses, osseoanchored prostheses allow for increased range of motion, limb strength, proprioception, and osseoperception. In addition, the permanent implant increases comfort and eliminates skin irritations, ulcers, and perspiration; allows for weight gain and loss; and simplifies prosthetic attachments. “Osseointegration is basically fixing the prosthesis itself to the patient’s skeleton,” says Dr. Ayalon. “There’s no pressure on the skin or the soft tissue at all, so that gets rid of all of the soft tissue concerns of a traditional socket prosthesis.” In the first surgery, he and Dr. Hacquebord performed targeted muscle reinnervation and implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system. During a follow-up surgery in November 2022, the surgeons attached an abutment to the implant. The complex soft tissue surgery closed the gap between bone and metal, allowing the thigh to heal down to the distal femur and titanium connectors. By January 2023, the patient reported significant improvement in his pain, phantom limb symptoms, mood, and mobility, and he was successfully fitted with a full prosthetic in May 2023. The patient’s strength continued to increase with time and physical therapy until he was able to walk unassisted. “The patient is ecstatic. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” “He’s ecstatic,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “He’s driving, he’s walking, he was just outside shoveling snow. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” Based on the success, Dr. Ayalon adds, “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hand and Wrist Surgery Omri B. Ayalon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction, and associate director of the Hand Surgery Fellowship Program. He specializes in orthopedic surgery and hand and wrist surgery. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery and co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. He specializes in treating patients with severe hand injuries through reconstructive surgery and microsurgery. Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Surveys suggest that up to 70 percent of physicians 82 percent of nurses who work in the nation’s emergency departments (EDs) report symptoms of burnout—a condition associated with increased risk for medical errors, cardiovascular disease, and cognitive decline. Yet little is known about the risk factors for burnout or how it develops over time. Researchers at NYU Langone Health are working to increase that understanding, using “digital phenotyping” to identify markers predictive of burnout symptoms. In an NIH-funded prospective longitudinal study led by , the team will follow a cohort of 350 ED clinicians, using advanced computational methods to extract such markers from video and audio data. “A problem for the study of burnout is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills. My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities.” “A problem for the study of burnout, as with many other neuropsychiatric disorders, is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains. “My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities to identify stress-related mental health issues and enable timely interventions.” A Digital Phenotype for Burnout In the three-year trial, currently in its enrollment phase, investigators will conduct semistructured interviews about work experience, using a subset of artificial intelligence known as machine learning to analyze participants’ voice patterns, speech content, head movement, pupil dilation, gaze, facial expressions, and other digital biomarkers extracted from video and audio data. This digital phenotyping will then be used to predict evidence of chronic stress determined by neurocognitive tests, psychometric assessments, and physiological biomarkers—such as elevated blood pressure, inflammatory proteins in blood samples, and high cortisol concentrations in hair samples. As digital biomarkers emerge, they will be tested for accuracy in distinguishing between risk for clinically relevant versus nonrelevant burnout symptoms. The team will also assess the association of those biomarkers with the long-term job-related stress load of individual clinicians, such as levels of ED crowding and patient acuity, adequacy of staffing, and regularity of shift schedules. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” “By identifying objective, accurate, and reliable digital measures for burnout, we hope to promote low-threshold prevention strategies,” Dr. Schultebraucks says. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” Digital Tools for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Suicidality In addition to burnout, Dr. Schultebraucks and her research group are working to develop easily deployable digital tools for risk stratification, diagnosis, and treatment selection in other stress-related pathologies. Their approach embraces not just digital phenotyping but also clinical predictive analytics and computational medicine. Toward this effort, the team is currently conducting two other large studies. The first, funded by the NIH , focuses on patients admitted to an ED after a potentially traumatic event. This study’s overall objective is to develop and test a risk-prediction model of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) based on electronic medical records (EMRs) and digital biomarkers. Previous work by the team, showed that routinely collected data from EMRs, together with a brief psychometric screening, predicted nonremitting PTSD symptoms in patients after trauma. The researchers propose to use such digital biomarkers to substitute for psychometric self-reports in developing a prognostic model of short-term and chronic PTSD risk. The second study is part of a multicenter investigation, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation , with multiple principal investigators. Its aim is to predict suicidal ideation and behavior in psychiatric patients who were admitted to an inpatient unit after exhibiting such symptoms and who are about to be discharged. Dr. Schultebraucks and an interdisciplinary team that includes psychiatrists, psychologists, and linguists have developed an app that draws on daily psychometric assessments, video diaries, and other data to forecast the risk of relapse. “We want to learn not only whether digital biomarkers can predict suicidal ideation,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains, “but also how sensitive they are in monitoring changes in symptomology over time.” Answers to such questions are crucial, she notes, before these kinds of tools can be deployed in real-world settings. “Our goal is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention, and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Eventually, Dr. Schultebraucks hopes digital tools can help guide preventive and therapeutic strategies for populations ranging from firefighters to combat troops “Our overall goal,” she says, “is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD, is an associate professor of psychiatry and population health and co-director of the Computational Psychiatry Program. Her research centers on precision psychiatry, with a focus on applying advanced computational methods to improve individualized risk stratification and individualized treatment allocation. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics Dr. Kenneth A. Egol speaking at the screening of On the Shoulders of Giants at the Tribeca Film Festival. Source: NYU Langone Health. For clinicians seeking to advance their specialty, a grasp of its history is essential. One way to deepen that understanding is by examining the development of a single institution—an approach taken by the documentary On the Shoulders of Giants , which traces the heritage of NYU Langone Health’s Department of Orthopedics to the discipline’s most illustrious ancestors. The hour-long film grew out of a project by orthopedic surgeon Kenneth A. Egol, MD , a self-described history buff who led residents and students in cataloging biographies of the department’s clinical pioneers. “At NYU Langone, we often say we’re standing on the shoulders of giants,” says Dr. Egol, who serves as vice chair for academic affairs for orthopedic surgery and chief of orthopedic trauma. “But our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” “Our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” To tell that story, he and , chair of orthopedic surgery, turned to award-winning documentarian Peter Sanders , who had been under their care for several years—most recently for a midfoot fracture. “I look back on that as ‘the break that led to a bigger break,’” Sanders says. “I might never have become involved with this project if I wasn’t seeing these doctors as a patient.” The film was an official selection of the 2024 Tribeca X Award competition, a celebration of the year’s best brand-supported storytelling. It is now available to stream on multiple platforms. The Formative Years The saga begins at Bellevue Hospital in 1853, when Lewis Albert Sayre, MD , started his practice. Then, in 1861, he became the first professor of orthopedic surgery in the United States. Among Dr. Sayre’s outstanding students were brothers Henry and Herman Frauenthal , who in 1905 founded the Jewish Hospital for Deformities and Joint Diseases. By 1921, that entity had grown from a single brownstone in upper Manhattan to a multibuilding complex known as the Hospital for Joint Diseases (HJD) —one of the foremost patient care centers in the United States. From the beginning, the hospital was home to many of the field’s seminal figures: Emanuel Kaplan, MD , gained renown as a founder of the discipline of hand surgery. Henry L. Jaffe, MD , joined the faculty in 1924 and has been credited as the father of orthopedic pathology for his systematic classification of bone and cartilage tumors. Leo Mayer, MD , one of the original chiefs of service, was a leader in polio care in the 1920s and 30s. Harry Finkelstein, MD , developer of the Finkelstein test, was another original chief of service. Surgeon Michael Burman, MD , became a pioneer of diagnostic arthroscopy in the 1930s. In 1935, Marian Frauenthal Sloane, MD , Herman Frauenthal’s daughter, became the first female orthopedic surgeon in the United States to publish an article in a peer-reviewed journal. Henry Milch, MD , devised the Milch classification system for lateral condyle fractures in the 1950s Howard Rosen, MD , brought the principles of internal fixation, originally developed in Switzerland, to the United States. Paul Lapidus, MD , established America’s first orthopedic foot service and invented the Lapidus procedure for treating hallux valgus—it’s still in use today. Victor H. Frankel, MD , established the nation’s first biomechanics laboratory at HJD, and subsequently introduced the Ilizarov limb-lengthening technique to the United States. Melvin H. Jahss, MD , a student of Dr. Lapidus, published the classic textbook on disorders of the foot and ankles and went on to found the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Jacques Serge Parisien, MD , forged new paths in arthroscopic surgery and sports medicine. All these innovators appear in On the Shoulders of Giants, whether in archival photographs, vintage video footage, or interviews conducted for the film. Continuing the Legacy The oldest connection between NYU Langone and HJD runs through Bellevue Hospital, where faculty members have taught and practiced since the 19th century. The link became even closer in the 1990s, when HJD affiliated with NYU Langone. In 2006, the two institutions completed a full asset merger, with the HJD becoming the NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases—now named “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics, either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” As the documentary shows, the legacy of Lewis Albert Sayre lives on in NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Department of Orthopedic Surgery , which operates NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and provides services at numerous sites throughout the metropolitan area. The film introduces over three dozen current faculty members, orthopedic trainees, and administrators. Their demographics are more diverse than those of earlier generations, but their mission remains much the same. In one scene, Dr. Zuckerman illustrates that continuity through a diagram of a tree, whose roots represent Sayre and the Frauenthals, and whose trunk stands for as it exists today. “Emanating from that into the branches,” he explains, “is the clinical care we provide and the scientific discovery and innovation that we perform, and the education of residents and fellows.” The department’s residency program, Dr. Zuckerman adds, is the largest of its kind in the country. This, along with the robust fellowship programs, offers a comprehensive and immersive educational experience provided by NYU Langone orthopedics. As a result, “there are hundreds of NYU Langone orthopedic graduates providing patient care across the country,” says Dr. Zuckerman. “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” Kenneth A. Egol, MD, is the Joseph E. Milgram Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, vice chair of academic affairs in orthopedic surgery, and chief of the Division of Trauma and Fracture Surgery. His research and clinical interests center on patient outcomes following musculoskeletal trauma. Hip & Knee Reconstruction, Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, is the Walter A. L. Thompson Professor of Orthopedic Surgery and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research interests include outcomes of shoulder surgery, arthritis and shoulder replacement, hip and knee arthroplasty, geriatric hip fractures, and improving methods of orthopedics residency education. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The relationship between Alzheimer’s disease risk and age-related sleep changes—and how barriers to sleep health possibly drive Alzheimer’s disease–related disparities—is the focus of ongoing research led by Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH , an associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health and member of the Brain Aging and Sleep Center Dr. Bubu’s investigations offer a window into potential opportunities to target sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) before the onset of Alzheimer’s disease, potentially narrowing the disproportionate risk of Alzheimer’s disease in minority populations. “If we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients.” “We now know that around 15 percent of Alzheimer’s disease cases can be attributed to specific sleep problems,” says Dr. Bubu. “Clinically, that tells us that if we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients, who are twice as likely to experience sleep problems.” Sleep Apnea as a Risk Factor retrospective analysis led by Dr. Bubu found a dose–response relationship in incident Alzheimer’s disease risk as OSA increased, driven specifically by underlying factors involved in OSA: hypoxia, sleep fragmentation, and sleep duration. He notes, though, that the precise causal relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease onset remains under investigation. While the study indicated that patients with OSA were significantly more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to those without OSA, the risk was notably more pronounced in Black and Hispanic patients. Specifically, White patients with OSA were 1.7 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. In contrast, Black individuals with OSA were 2.2 times more likely and Hispanic patients with OSA were 1.8 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. Early intervention could potentially head off the development of the progressive disease. Suggesting opportunities for such intervention, from Dr. Bubu and colleagues has demonstrated a greater presence of Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers in cognitively healthy older patients with OSA, including amyloid burden and tau protein aggregation . Concurrent vascular risk factors, including hypertension, were found to further promote amyloid burden and global cognitive decline. Research into Disparities and Interventions Now, with over $8.5 million in funding from the National Institute on Aging, Dr. Bubu is applying a health disparities research framework to further investigate the effects of race on the relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease pathology. The five-year study will involve 300 race-, age-, and sex-matched participants—half with newly diagnosed OSA. Data on social determinants of health from the study could support prospective investigations of novel prevention strategies for Alzheimer’s disease that target stress management, inflammation, hypertension, and sleep quality. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Dr. Bubu’s ongoing research has also found that plasma strongly mirrors brain scans in revealing the presence of certain Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers. These biomarkers, including tau, point to a future role for blood-based screening, which could provide a simple tool to assess Alzheimer’s disease risk. In the meantime, his findings to date suggest an immediate clinical benefit to prioritizing sleep in the evaluation and management of patients—particularly Black patients. “The effects of social determinants on sleep—and the connection between sleep problems and neurodegeneration—are a critical piece of the whole health outcomes puzzle,” said Dr. Bubu. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Psychiatry, Neurology Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH, an associate professor of psychiatry, neurology, and population health, is director of the Aging Research in Sleep Equity and Dementia Prevention Program. His research explores the association between sleep disorders and dementia, and the social determinants of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement Ran Schwarzkopf, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health In a retrospective study of more than 20,000 patients undergoing total knee or hip arthroplasty, NYU Langone Health researchers reported the first validated decision-making tool that predicts discharge to home versus inpatient rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility. Within bundled payment models for total joint arthroplasty, costs are higher for discharge to rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility, but that level of care is often necessary for better patient recovery. “Sometimes, our patients are not physically or mentally ready to go home alone and take care of themselves,” says orthopedic surgeon and senior study author Ran Schwarzkopf, MD . “They need some environment to care for them until they’re able to do that.” Dr. Schwarzkopf led a group of colleagues from across the nation in developing an online prediction model consisting of nine preoperative parameters to identify high-risk patients (Figure 1). The focus on parameters easily pulled from the electronic medical record enables discharge planning to occur well in advance of surgery. Figure 1. The nine preoperative variables used in a new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities following total hip or knee replacement. ASA; American Society of Anesthesiologists. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. Compared to simple random selection, the clinical decision-making tool yielded a 79 percent improvement in positive predictive value and a 56 percent decrease in the number needed to screen to identify 1 true positive (Figure 2). Figure 2. The new tool performed better at predicting discharge destination compared to random selection, or the absence of a tool. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. The study also indicated that 15.5 percent of the patients qualified for rehabilitation, which Dr. Schwarzkopf notes is to be expected for a tertiary referral center that often sees patients with comorbidities. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers.” The tool, he says, merits consideration for clinical use because of its value for patient counseling, preoperative optimization, and discharge planning. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers,” he says. “In addition, it helps the system prepare better for where to do the surgery and what to expect for the patient after the surgery.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hip & Knee Reconstruction Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, is a professor of orthopedic surgery, associate chief of the Division of Adult Reconstruction Surgery, director of the Adult Reconstruction Research Center, and associate director of the NYU Langone Orthopedic Residency Program. He specializes in hip and knee conditions, with a particular interest in degenerative joint disease. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD (left) and Omri B. Ayalon, MD (right). Source: NYU Langone Health For an open fracture or neurovascular injury to an extremity that requires definitive soft tissue coverage through a flap, orthopedic researchers have agreed that it’s best to perform a free flap reconstruction as soon as possible. In reality, however, scheduling and other conflicts can delay the time to coverage. Some surgeons have maintained that improved technology has lessened the urgency. Others have pointed to the potential existence of a temporary “inflammatory period” during which reconstruction should be avoided. Within this time frame, it’s proposed that irritated blood vessels may heighten the risk of thrombosis and surgical failure. systematic review and meta-analysis led by orthopedic surgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health support the general consensus that immediate reconstruction within three days is most effective. Beyond that window, however, the study has suggested a relatively nonlinear relationship between time and outcomes. “Get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important.” “The most objective advice I can give other surgeons is get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important,” says Dr. Hacquebord, co-director of the multidisciplinary A Matter of Time Over 1,400 free flap reconstructions from 21 qualifying studies were included in the analyses. “One big takeaway is that the relationship between time and outcomes is nuanced,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “It’s not just the longer you wait, the worse the outcome.” Reconstructions performed between three and seven days after injuries showed significantly higher rates of infections, bone nonunions, and reoperations than did reconstructions done outside this window (Figure 1). Figure 1. Percentage rates of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation outcomes are plotted against four date ranges, which correspond to the number of days elapsed after the patient’s injury before surgeons performed the free flap reconstruction. Adapted From: Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. Effect of Timing on Outcomes of Free Flap Reconstruction Following Traumatic Injury to the Exremety: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Poster presented the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Feb 2024. Las Vegas, NV. By contrast, no clear trends were observed for rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications (Figure 2). Figure 2. Percentage rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications. Adapted from: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. In addition, the study showed no significant differences in reconstructions performed between 7 to 30 days or after 30 days postinjury. Further Research Required Dr. Hacquebord cautions that more investigation is needed to fully understand the implications of these findings for surgical interventions occurring after the three-day window. “What we can say is that the middle window of time is associated with a higher rate of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation,” he says. More-granular studies of the time to coverage and patient outcomes and complications could clarify whether an “inflammatory period” or other factors are contributing to the difference. For surgeries that cannot occur within that three-day window, he advises optimizing the patients and paying close attention to all intraoperative and postoperative findings as they relate to time. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease The president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology shares insights into new roles for the imaging technique. Obstetrics & Gynecology Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA The glenoid component is a weak link in total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA), and glenoid loosening is a common cause of failure. Computer-assisted navigation (CAN) can help surgeons precisely and accurately implant glenoid components and correct deformities. Although the method has surged in popularity, no studies had evaluated its intraoperative efficacy and safety during shoulder replacement until a retrospective review by NYU Langone Health researchers. Their study assessed 16,723 TSA cases (anatomic and reverse) performed worldwide with CAN, finding the technology to be extremely user-friendly: in 98 percent of cases, surgeons completed every step of the navigation procedure without abandoning it intraoperatively. “Computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve.” Mandeep S. Virk, MD The analysis, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery , also revealed that CAN is reliable and reproducible, with minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plan. The researchers reported a low complication rate in their series, with only nine fractures (0.05 percent) of the coracoid bone. “The take-home message is that computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve,” says lead author and orthopedic surgeon Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery “It’s a large database study including all TSAs performed with computer navigation up to the time of publication. The comprehensive design, I think, is the real hallmark of this study.” Computer-Captured Measurements Dr. Virk and colleagues have used the CAN system for TSAs since 2018. Prior to each surgery, surgeons plan out the procedure on a computer using the system’s software. The preoperative plan