Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 1 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To ensure adequate life safety protection: • When egress is obstructed • When a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system is impaired • When Life Safety Code deficiencies cannot immediately be corrected • During periods of construction and renovation To comply with federal, state, and local regulations, and NFPA 101: The Life Safety Code. TABLE OF CONTENTS Section Title Page 1.0 Application ......................................................................................................... 2 2.0 Introduction ........................................................................................................ 2 3.0 Responsibilities .................................................................................................. 3 4.0 Criteria for implementing a fire watch............................................................... 6 5.0 Criteria for selecting and implementing other Interim Life Safety measures (ILSMs) .............................................................................................................. 7 6.0 Building maintenance: ILSM risk assessment process ...................................... 9 7.0 Construction/renovation: ILS risk assessment process ...................................... 9 8.0 Implementation and monitoring of ILSMs ....................................................... 10 9.0 ILS and Interim Evacuation Plans .................................................................... 11 10.0 Standard safety precautions for in house operations and maintenance ............ 12 Appendix A: Sample Construction/ILS Permit Appendix B: Construction Safety Inspection Checklist Appendix C: ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Appendix D: ILSM Assessment Tool Appendix E: NYULH LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan Appendix F: ILSM Matrix Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 2 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Introduction The Joint Commission (TJC) requires that hospitals develop and implement an ILS policy. The policy must include written criteria for evaluating when and to what extent the hospital implements one or more of the following special measures to compensate for increased life safety risk: 2.1 Evacuating the building, or notifying the fire department and implementing a fire watch. 2.2 Posting signs identifying alternate exits. 2.3 Inspecting exits in affected areas on a daily basis. 2.4 Providing temporary but equivalent fire alarm and detection systems for use when a fire system is impaired. 2.5 Providing additional fire fighting equipment. 2.6 Using temporary construction partitions that are smoke tight and made of noncombustible or limited combustible material that will not contribute to the development or spread of fire. 2.7 Increasing surveillance of buildings, grounds, and equipment, giving special attention to construction areas and storage, excavation, and field offices. 2.8 Enforcing storage, housekeeping, and debris removal practices that reduce the building’s flammable and combustible fire load to the lowest feasible level. 2.9 Providing additional training to those who work in the hospital on the use of fire fighting equipment. 2.10 Conducting one additional fire drill per shift per quarter. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 3 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 2.11 Inspecting and testing temporary systems monthly, and documenting the completion dates of the tests. 2.12 Providing education to promote awareness of building deficiencies, construction hazards, and temporary measures implemented to maintain fire safety. 2.13 Training those who work in the hospital to compensate for impaired structural or compartmental fire safety features. 2.14 Implementing other appropriate interim life safety measures (ILSMs). 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Planning, Design, and Construction is responsible for Interim Life Safety (ILS) Plans for construction on the NYUWH main campus and at the Research and Academic Center (RAC), including:  Creating ILS plans.  Submitting the ILS plans to either the Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance and Emergency Management for review and approval. 3.2 NYULH LI Engineering is responsible for ILS Plans for operations and maintenance work on the NYULH LI main campus and at the RAC, including:  Creating ILS plans  Submitting the ILS plans to either the Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance & Emergency Management for review and approval. 3.3 Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) is responsible for the Interim Life Safety Program at locations other than NYULH LI and the RAC, including:  Developing the ILS program (the Program).  Training personnel to implement the Program.  Developing and issuing documents that incorporate appropriate ILSMs for construction and renovation projects.  Conducting quality assurance (QA) inspections of construction, renovation, and facilities maintenance projects to verify that appropriate ILSMs have been implemented. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 4 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 EH&S and the NYULH LI Fire Safety Officer are also responsible for:  Developing and issuing ILS Plans and illustrated Interim Evacuation Plans (e.g., when there is a need to compromise egress) that incorporate appropriate ILSMs. EH&S is also responsible for:  Presenting quarterly summaries of the results of QA inspections of construction and renovation projects to the Construction Safety Subcommittee of the Environment of Care Committee.  Conducting QA inspections of facilities maintenance projects and reporting the results to Facilities. 3.4 Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering), Information Technology (IT), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for compliance within their departments and divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Ensuring the Program is implemented on all construction, renovation, and maintenance projects.  Ensuring personnel who report to them: Implement the required ILSMs. Conduct regular ILS inspections of projects that require ILSMs.  Providing Security with current information on active projects (the Daily Security Site Inspection List) so Security staff can inspect exits in affected areas on a daily basis. In the buildings they maintain, Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for:  Conducting an ILSM Risk Assessment for TJC Survey related Plans for Improvement (SPFI) if a life safety code deficiency cannot be corrected within 60 days of a survey, and entering required documentation into the TJC website.  Conducting an ILSM Risk Assessment when building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies are not minor and/or cannot be corrected immediately (i.e., within 60 days).  Assessing the need for ILS Plans and Interim Evacuation Plans, and creating or requesting them in accordance with this policy.  Arranging for implementation of a fire watch (see Section 4). Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 5 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021  Functioning as the impairment coordinator, per Chapter 9 of the New York City (NYC) and New York State Fire Code, or applicable code in other municipalities  Ensuring their staff notify the authorities having jurisdiction when a fire protection system (standpipe, sprinkler, fire) is out of service In NYC, the Fire Department’s (FDNY’s) impairment unit (212.570.4300) At NYULH LI, the Nassau County Fire Marshal’s office (516.573.9900), with additional notification to a chief from the Mineola Fire Department for any fire pump impairment or extensive fire alarm system impairment. In other locations, the local fire marshal or fire department RED+F Design and Construction is also responsible for:  Summarizing data from daily inspections of construction/renovation projects and reporting it to the Construction Safety Committee. 3.5 Managers and Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, operations, maintenance, and cable management) are responsible for implementing and maintaining the Program on their projects. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Requesting ILS risk assessments in accordance with this policy.  Informing their contractors about the requirements of this policy.  Obtaining Construction and/or ILS Risk Assessments, Permits and Plans; ensuring Permits and Plans are posted in plastic sheet protectors at entrances to construction/renovation projects; and ensuring contractors comply with the terms of the permits and plans.  Notifying Facilities, Real Estate, or building management (as applicable): In advance of planned work which will result in impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system. Immediately of an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system resulting from an unscheduled event.  Arranging for implementation of a qualified fire watch (see Section 4) and ensuring that necessary notifications (e.g., to Facilities and Security, or building management) are made about the fire watch.  Conducting regular inspections of construction/renovation projects for which ILSMs are required. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 6 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 As a rule, daily unless otherwise specified, e.g., in the completed risk assessment, or Construction or ILS Permit. At least once a week, for inactive sites. More frequent inspections are required if necessary to maintain site safety. The Construction Safety Inspection Checklist is included as Appendix B.  Promptly correcting deficiencies found on their projects. 3.6 At locations other than NYULH LI and the RAC, Security and Loss Prevention are responsible for:  Inspecting projects daily using the Daily Security Site Inspection List.  Periodically reporting the results of daily inspections to RED+F Design and Construction, for incorporation into their inspection report.  On request, and where permitted by code (see Section 4.2), assigning their staff to conduct a fire watch, as applicable. 3.7 Department heads are responsible for:  Inspecting construction barriers within their departments as part of their daily leadership rounds, and reporting deficiencies to Facilities or Real Estate.  Ensuring their subordinates receive all training required by the Program, e.g., on Interim Evacuation Plans. 4.0 Criteria for implementing a fire watch 4.1 The Authorities Having Jurisdiction (e.g., in NYC, the FDNY; outside NYC, the fire department or fire marshal) shall be notified when a standpipe, sprinkler, or fire alarm system is out of service. 4.2 A fire watch is required unless the AHJ specifically indicates otherwise.  The area patrolled by each individual shall not exceed 50,000 square feet. Within NYC  During the first 4 hours of impairment, trained building staff (e.g., Security) may conduct the fire watch as long as the unprotected area does not exceed 50,000 square feet.  If the impairment exceeds 4 hours or the unprotected area exceeds 50,000 square feet, the fire watch must be conducted by individuals who have an FDNY Certificate of Fitness (C of F) for Fire Guard for Impairments Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 7 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 Outside NYC  For an impairment of any duration, staff shall implement an approved fire watch 4.3 Risk assessments for other common situations that could require a fire watch are summarized below. Each situation must be assessed for its specific risks.  Situation: Putting a shield over a single smoke detector in an occupied area for more than 4 hours to prevent false alarms from dust. The shield is removed once the dust producing activity is complete. Fire watch required? No. Rationale: Occupants and other active fire protection devices are present in the surrounding area.  Situation: In a building where the Facilities engineers receive notification of activated smoke detectors, placing smoke detectors offline (e.g., where personnel may generate dust in the affected area) to prevent notification to the local fire department during a scheduled event. (Devices are operational after hours.) Fire watch required? No. Rationale: Facilities engineers receive notification of activated smoke detectors and respond to investigate. Also, the fire alarm system pull stations and speaker/strobes remain active.  Situation: A scheduled shut down or drain down of the standpipe or sprinkler system or disabling of the fire alarm system. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: The standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system is not functional.  Situation: An unscheduled event, such as an unanticipated system failure or shutdown. E.g., shutting off a zone valve to the sprinkler system or disabling a fire alarm zone. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: The standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system is not functional.  Situation: A construction site that is neither fully sprinklered, nor has perimeter walls that are 1 hour fire rated from slab to slab. Fire watch required? Yes. Rationale: NFPA 241 requires that the perimeter of the construction site contains walls that are 1 hour fire rated unless the site is sprinklered in Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 8 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 accordance with NFPA 13. The NYC and NYS building and fire codes contain additional requirements. Note: A fire watch is acceptable for a short duration impairment, but is not a substitute for a construction site having an active sprinkler system or a perimeter fire rated partition. 5.0 Criteria for selecting and implementing other ILSMs 5.1 Routine operations and maintenance (O&M) work EH&S has conducted a risk assessment for routine in house O&M activities by Facilities’ employees (see Appendix C). Based on this assessment, Facilities has incorporated appropriate ILSMs into their Standard Safety Precautions for O&M work (see Section 10.0). There is no need for an additional ILS risk assessment and ILSMs for routine O&M work by Facilities’ employees. 5.2 Minor deficiencies As a rule, there is no need for an ILS risk assessment and ILSMs for minor building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies (e.g., burnt out exit lights, damaged doors or door hardware, missing or damaged ceiling tiles, small penetrations, illegible fire door labels, open junction boxes) that can be corrected within 60 days.  NYULH’s facilities are designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to confine a fire to the area where it starts, and to minimize the spread of smoke and fire.  Facilities has comprehensive building maintenance programs (BMPs) for all in patient facilities, and other buildings they operate. The BMPs incorporate regular, scheduled processes for inspecting, identifying, prioritizing, and correcting life safety code deficiencies. Critical or severe deficiencies receive the highest priority. The BMPs include: Written strategies to manage items covered by the programs. Documented schedules for the frequency of inspecting the items. Periodic monitoring with an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 9 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021  Real Estate schedules routine inspections for, and correction of life safety code deficiencies at locations they manage, none of which are in patient occupancies.  NYULH staff are well prepared to respond to fire incidents. All staff complete mandatory annual fire safety training. Staff participate in routine fire drills, per TJC requirements. Fire Response Team members participate in additional training. 5.3 TJC Survey Related Plan for Improvement (SPFI) Facilities or Real Estate conducts an ILSM Risk Assessment (for process, see Section 6 or 7) for any SPFI that cannot be immediately (i.e., within 60 days) corrected, and enters the documentation into the TJC website. 5.4 Other conditions PMs and managers evaluate the need for ILSMs (for process, see Section 6 or 7) whenever they identify conditions that could pose a threat to life safety. This includes:  When egress will be obstructed.  When a fire protection system will be impaired.  Whenever a Life Safety Code deficiency cannot be immediately (i.e., within 60 days) corrected.  During periods of construction and renovation. 6.0 Building maintenance: ILSM risk assessment process 6.1 When building maintenance related life safety code deficiencies are not minor and/or cannot be corrected immediately (i.e., within 60 days) and require a Time Limited Waiver (TLW) from the Centers for Medicare Services (CMS), a designated Facilities or Real Estate manager drafts an ILSM risk assessment.  The goal is efficient and effective mitigation of any increased risk.  The manager uses an Interim Life Safety Measures Assessment Tool (see Appendices D and E) or comparable form to document the assessment.  The risk assessment may include the rationale (e.g., existing mitigating features) for determining what, if any, ILSMs are needed. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 10 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.2 The manager works with the EH&S Fire Safety Program Manager or the NYULH LI Fire Safety Officer, or their designee to finalize the risk assessment. 6.3 As needed, the manager coordinates implementation of required ILSMs (e.g., training on life safety code deficiencies and/or alternate exits). 7.0 Construction/renovation: ILSM risk assessment process 7.1 During the planning of a construction or renovation project, the PM coordinates an ILS risk assessment. The goal is efficient and effective mitigation of the risk. 7.2 At NYULH LI main campus and the RAC, the PM uses the NYULH_LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan (Appendix E) to identify and document appropriate ILSMs.  The PM submits the document to Sr. Director of Engineering and Facilities or the Director of Environment of Care Compliance and Emergency Management for review and approval. 7.3 At other locations, the PM asks an EH&S Construction Safety Specialist (CSS) to conduct an ILS risk assessment. The CSS uses the ILSM Matrix (Appendix F) and professional judgment on a case by case basis, to identify appropriate ILSM and construction safety measures.  At the end of the process, the CSS issues the PM one or more of the following: A Construction Safety or Interim Life Safety Permit (a Permit). The permitting process is described in Section 8. A sample Permit is included as Appendix A. An Interim Life Safety Plan. An Interim Evacuation Plan.  Permit signatories The CSS creates a Permit and gives it to the PM for signature. The PM signs the Permit and obtains the following additional signatures, after which the CSS signs the Permit: o the contractor o the Program Director or Facilities’ Director o the divisional Vice President Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 11 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 8.0 Implementation and monitoring of ILSMs 8.1 The PM informs contractors of the Permit and ILSM requirements and pertinent Safety Policies (e.g., Construction Contractor Safety Requirements). 8.2 The PM coordinates implementation of the Permit and ILSM requirements (e.g. posting of signage, training on alternative exits, installation of temporary alarm system, provision of additional fire extinguishers, and informing affected departments). 8.3 During the project, the PM:  Inspects the project site regularly using the inspection checklist in Appendix B or a comparable form, and maintains documentation in the project file.  Works with contractors to ensure prompt correction of deficiencies identified during inspections.  Arranges for daily testing if there is a temporary fire alarm system. 9.0 ILS and Interim Evacuation Plans 9.1 When the following conditions arise at NYULH LI main campus or RAC, the PM prepares an ILS Plan and submits it for approval. At other locations, the PM or manager asks EH&S to prepare an ILS Plan:  The number, type, or severity of life safety code deficiencies places building occupants at noteworthy increased risk. E.g., when occupying new space in which there are numerous life safety code deficiencies on the “punch list”.  The planned work or an unscheduled event: Reduces the width of an egress corridor in a patient area to less than 4 feet or to the point where the corridor cannot accommodate common transport devices (e.g., stretchers or beds). Reduces the width of an egress corridor in a non patient area to less than 3 feet. Obstructs or temporarily renders inaccessible any part of the horizontal or vertical evacuation route(s) for an area, including the exit access, exit stair, and exit discharge. Impairs a fire protection system. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 12 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 9.2 The ILS Plan may include an Interim Evacuation Plan (i.e., a drawing showing temporary evacuation routes). 9.3 NYULH LI Engineering or an EH&S staff member with an FDNY C of F for Fire Safety Director shall review and accept each ILS Plan before it is finalized. 9.4 The PM or manager shall coordinate implementation of the requirements of the ILS Plan (e.g. informing affected departments and coordinating training on alternative evacuation plans). 10.0 Standard safety precautions for in house operations and maintenance (O & M) activities When small, routine O&M activities are undertaken by Facilities and/or Real Estate employees, the manager, foreman, and supervisor ensures that employees do the following: 10.1 Wear an employee ID badge above the waist with picture facing front at all times. 10.2 Do not disturb any suspect asbestos containing material. Ask the supervisor/ foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate testing and abatement (if needed). 10.3 If mold is observed, ask the supervisor/foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate an assessment and provide recommendations. 10.4 If a heat gun, torch, or grinder will be used to remove paint, ask the supervisor/foreman/manager to have designated departments (e.g., EH&S, NYULH LI Engineering) coordinate testing for lead containing paint. 10.5 Set up the work area so as to contain dust and debris. Use an enclosure, such as a room or control cube, or erect smoke tight barriers around the work area. 10.6 Do not block exits from the floor or work area. Maintain egress corridor width of 4 feet in a patient care area and 3 feet in any other area. 10.7 Do not block access to emergency equipment such as fire alarm pull stations, fire extinguishers, or emergency medical gas shutoff valves. 10.8 Run a HEPA filtered air cleaner in the work area if the work will generate dust. Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 13 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 10.9 If the work produces flame, sparks or slag, obtain a daily Hot Work Permit from the supervisor/foreman/manager, implement the required protective measures, and have the permit readily accessible. 10.10 Remove all oxygen and flammable gas cylinders from the work area when not in use and at the end of each day. 10.11 Schedule the project to minimize the impact of noise and vibration. 10.12 Follow NYULH’s tobacco free workplace policy. 10.13 Remove flammable and combustible materials from the work area when the work is finished for the day. 10.14 Remove accumulated waste before leaving for the shift. Related Safety Policies 104: Tobacco Free Facilities 111: Fire Incident Protocol 115: Fire Alarm System Testing and Maintenance 120: Construction Safety Requirements 122: Fire Prevention 127: Fire Drills 131: Fire Alarm System Impairment 143: Hot Work Permit Facilities Policy T.01: Penetrations in Smoke/Fire Walls/Slabs and Repair Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Appendix B Construction Safety Inspection Checklist Appendix C ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Appendix D ILSM Assessment Tool Appendix E NYULH LI ILSM Assessment and Precaution Plan Appendix F ILSM Matrix Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 2/2020 Reviewed by Z. Abatzis, Environmental Health and Safety M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities E. Cintron, Real Estate R. Cohen, Facilities Operations N. Ejaz, NYULH B, Safety Officer B. Farrell, Real Estate Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 14 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management T. Fascianella, NYU LOH, Safety Officer S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety D. Resnick, RED+F Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH, Engineering E. Tautel, IT Cable Management R. Zick, Security NYU Langone Hospital Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Summary of Revisions Revision Date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island February 2020 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 4.2 Clarifies requirements outside of NYC 5.1, 5.2 Incorporates information previously in Section 6 7.3 Incorporates information on permit signatories, previously in Section 8 8.0 Changes name from “Process for the Construction Safety/ILS Permitting” to “Implementation and Monitoring of ILSMs” Reviewed by Adds review by NYU Winthrop Hospital, Appendix E New June 2019 2.1, 2.2, 2.14 New 3.2 Adds Facilities responsibility for responding to TJC survey findings, and for ILS risk assessments for non routine maintenance 3.5 Adds responsibility for daily inspections of construction barriers 4.0 Adds fire watch requirements for areas outside of NYC 5.1 New Section 6 New Appendices Reorders Appendices Adds Appendix C: ILSM Risk Assessment for Routine Work by Facilities Maintenance Employees Safety Policy Manual Policy 145 Policy: Interim Life Safety (ILS) Program Page 15 of 15 Revised: March 26, 2021 March 2018 Throughout Updates logo and organizational references 5.2 Clarifies criteria for selecting and implementing other ILSMs 7.0 Clarifies Interim Life Safety and Interim Evacuation Plan 8.9 Clarifies need for daily hot work permit Appendix C Adds appendix Interim Life Safety Matrix June 2017 3.2 Clarifies that RED+F Design and Construction reports inspection data to the Construction Safety Committee 3.4 Clarifies that Security reports inspection data to RED+F Design and Construction. 4.0 Adds section, to address, more clearly, TJC requirement for criteria 4.2 Added last example February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone Removes reference to Lutheran Medical Center’s policy 1.0 Defines NYU Langone Review by Adds review by EOC Committees of HJD, Lutheran, and Lutheran Family Health Centers May 2016 2.2 Clarifies when Facilities notifies the FDNY impairment unit. 3.1 Clarifies when a fire watch and a certified Fire Guard are required. February 2016 Policy & General Information References Lutheran’s ILS program. 4.3 Adds information regarding signatories to the ILS Permit Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Appendix A Changes signature block in accordance with Section 4.3 Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 NYU Langone Health Interim Life Safety (ILS) PermitReason for Permit: Construction Project Location: Project Coordinator: Project Start Date: Contractor Performing Work: Project Completion: Supervisor’s Name: Telephone: Brief description of project: Demolition, abatement and renovation of existing space. The contractor shall comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, and NYULH Safety Policies. The Project Manager will review this permit with the contractor to ensure that the following construction safety and interim life safety measures are implemented on this project and will conduct daily hazard surveillance inspections: • The contractor shall comply with all requirements set forth in the site specific ICRA permit issued for this project. • The project shall be planned and scheduled to minimize the impact of noise and vibration for patients and staff. • Project Manager shall coordinate removal of all NYULH supplies and equipment (e.g. chemicals, compressed gas cylinders, appliances, etc.) from the project space prior to the start of work. • Contractor shall not disturb asbestos containing materials. Abatement must be coordinated through Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). • All construction personnel shall wear NYULH Security I.D. badges at all times. • All means of egress shall be kept unobstructed at all times. Exits shall be inspected daily. Stairwell doors shall not be propped or otherwise kept open. Exit signs with directional arrows shall be installed within the work area to aid in worker evacuation. The contractor shall not store any tools, materials or equipment outside the work area (e.g. in corridors, stairwells, etc.). • A mounted, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher with tag showing annual and monthly inspection record, is required for every 2,500 square feet of space. The distance between any 2 fire extinguishers shall not exceed 75 feet. A 10lb. ABC dry chemical extinguisher must also be immediately available by hot work or wherever flammable liquids or compressed gas cylinders are stored. • Hot work to be performed requires issuance of a daily NYULH Hot Work Permit. Contractor shall comply with all provisions of OSHA 1926 subpart J, the NYC Fire Code (including any storage and usage permit requirements) / Or Local Fire Code, and NYULH Safety Policy 143 (Hot Work). Compressed gas cylinders shall be removed from the job site at the end of each work day. All welding requires the use of an operable smoke eater at the point of the welding. A dedicated fire guard shall be in place at all times during hot work. Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 • The project site shall be maintained under 0.02” of negative pressure at all times with air exhausted out of the building. • The width of the corridor shall not be reduced to less than 4 feet nor can any established means of egress be changed or eliminated unless specifically authorized by NYULH’s Fire Safety Director along with issuance of Interim Life Safety and Interim Evacuation Plans. • Temporary hard and soft construction partitions shall be smoke tight. Hard partitions shall be constructed of non flammable material (drywall). Soft (plastic) partitions shall be fire retardant sheeting. • All construction materials introduced into this site by the contractor (e.g. plywood, plastic sheeting, tarps, etc.) shall be fire retardant or non combustible. Inspect daily to verify that flammable and combustible load is maintained at the lowest level feasible. • Shutdown of all existing utilities in the construction area (e.g. electric, HVAC, plumbing, etc.) shall be coordinated with NYULH Facilities Operations. A temporary lighting and power system shall be installed by a licensed electrical contractor. If any contractors require tie in of a temporary electrical panel, this work shall be done by NYULH Facilities Operations. No work shall be performed on live systems unless pre planned, specifically authorized by EH&S and Facilities Operations, and conducted in accordance with all NFPA 70e requirements. Live electrical panels shall be properly covered and locked at all times. All power tools and equipment shall be GFCI protected. • Contractor shall arrange for shutdown of the fire alarm, detection and/or suppression systems if the possibility of an accidental activation exists due to planned work activities (see NYU LH Safety Policy 145). Sprinkler heads and piping and fire alarm speaker/strobes, pull stations and their associated wiring, shall be protected against physical damage. Any damage caused to these systems shall be immediately reported to both NYULH Facilities Operations and the Project Manager. • The Project Manager shall notify EH&S a) in advance of work which will result in an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system or b) immediately of an impairment of a standpipe, sprinkler or fire alarm system resulting from an unscheduled event, arrange for implementation of a fire watch and ensure that necessary notifications are made to Facilities and Security. • NYULH Security Department shall be given advanced notice of all work to be performed after hours, work that needs to be performed in sensitive, controlled or restricted areas, and any work that may adversely affect patients, staff or the public. • All work on the building’s fire suppression systems shall be performed by a licensed plumber or fire suppression contractor in accordance with the NYC Building Code and/or local laws. • The PM shall notify the contractor that smoking is completely prohibited on campus, indoors and out. Contractor shall post an adequate number of “No Smoking” signs to comply with NYC Fire Code Section 1401.1, or local fire code. PM shall inspect daily for cigarette butts and follow up on problems. • Ground penetrating radar shall be used to ensure no striking of in slab utilities. Safety Policy 145, Appendix A Sample Construction Safety/Interim Life Safety Permit Revised: March 26, 2021 • Penetrations in floors, walls and ceilings, uncovered or created during the course of the project, must be fire stopped immediately utilizing NYULH Facilities Operations approved Hilti brand fire stopping products. • Chemicals and products used are to be low or no VOC unless specifically approved by the EH&S. Flammable or combustible liquids, chemicals and products shall be stored in an approved fire safety cabinet. Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) for all products shall be readily available on site. • Debris containers shall be wiped down and capped with plastic prior to leaving the job site. Debris removal and material deliveries to the site shall be made via the service elevators at times when minimal interaction with patients and staff is expected. • Construction personnel shall wear hard hats and use other personal protective equipment when the work calls for same. • Construction personnel shall use the right size and type ladder for the work they are performing. A frame ladders shall not be used in the closed position. Due to the potential electrical hazard metal ladders pose, only fiberglass or wood ladders shall be used. Ladders shall be inspected daily before use. Damaged ladders shall be thrown out. Workers shall not stand on the top 2 rungs of, stand backwards on or straddle, any ladder. Where the work does not allow 3 points of contact to be maintained on the ladder, another more stable work platform (e.g. bakers scaffold) shall be used. • All construction personnel shall be protected against falls from height greater than 6 feet at all times utilizing the hierarchy of controls. Use of a fall arrest system is a last resort and shall only be implemented where no other practical means (e.g. guardrail, aerial lift, or scaffold) exists.