be a candidate for open heart surgery, as well as people who are considered low-risk for complications due to their relatively young age and overall good health. We are pioneers in the use of TAVR in low-risk patients, and were part of the clinical trial that made the treatment available to this group. Our doctors work with you to determine whether TAVR is the best treatment for you. If another approach is better suited to your condition, our surgeons are also experts in all forms of cardiac valve surgery, including open heart surgery, and our outcomes exceed national averages. We also perform aortic balloon valvuloplasty, a transcatheter technique that is an option for some people who are not candidates for TAVR. Excellence in Transcatheter Mitral Valve Repair We offer nonsurgical mitral valve repair, including with MitraClip , to treat , and perform more of these procedures than any program in the Northeast. is a device that helps the valve’s flaps, or leaflets, to close more effectively. MitraClip is available for people with degenerative mitral valve regurgitation brought on by conditions such as mitral valve prolapse, or functional mitral regurgitation that is a result of the overworked heart growing larger and pulling at the leaflets so they do not form a proper seal. During the MitraClip procedure, your doctor accesses the mitral valve using a small incision in the groin. A clip is threaded through a catheter, and doctors place the device on the mitral valve. This reduces and in some cases eliminates regurgitation. Because of our vast experience, our doctors can perform a MitraClip procedure twice as quickly as most centers. A shorter procedure time reduces the risk of complications, and our patients are usually up and walking a couple of hours after the procedure and are back home the next day. Most of our patients experience a significant reduction in regurgitation, which relieves symptoms, increases longevity, and improves quality of life. In addition to MitraClip , we also perform mitral balloon valvuloplasty for people who have mitral valve stenosis due to rheumatic heart disease. We are also involved in numerous new technologies that are being developed to treat this condition. Advanced Mitral Valve Replacement transcatheter mitral valve replacement , in which our doctors guide a new valve through a catheter to the heart, where it can take over the work of the diseased valve. Transcatheter mitral valve replacement is available for people for are at high risk or are not candidates for open heart surgery, or those who have had prior mitral valve replacement and are in need of a new valve. NYU Langone is a pioneer in the use of transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and our doctors actively participate in clinical trials for investigational devices. All patients are screened to determine which device is most suitable to their diagnosis. Tricuspid Valve Repair and Replacement Tricuspid valve regurgitation occurs when the valve between the heart’s right atrium and right ventricle does not close properly. If severe and left untreated, patients with triscupid valve regurgitation may develop shortness of breath, swelling in the stomach, leg swelling, and pulmonary hypertension, all of which can be debilitating. We are currently enrolling high-risk surgical patients in clinical trials using new transcatheter tricuspid valve repair and replacement devices. We are located at NYU Langone’s in Manhattan. We also see patients at the following locations in Brooklyn, Queens, and on Long Island: To make an appointment at any of our locations, please call Our valve specialists provide the most appropriate treatment for your heart valve condition, including transcather procedures, open heart surgery, or watchful waiting. Director, Heart Valve Center Alan F. Vainrib Nonsurgical Heart Procedure Saves Mom During Pregnancy NYU Langone orthopedic experts provide surgical and nonsurgical treatments for people experiencing athletic-related or traumatic injuries, as well as degenerative conditions affecting the shoulder and elbow. These include rotator cuff injuries, dislocation and instability issues, , and fractures. Our surgeons are dedicated to the treatment of shoulder and elbow conditions, from sprains and strains to reconstructive surgery and joint replacement. Conditions we provide treatment for include: dislocated shoulder (shoulder instability), which occurs when the top of the upper arm bone becomes disengaged from the shoulder socket elbow sprain and fracture frozen shoulder , which is the tightening of the shoulder joint that makes it painful to move the arm golfer’s elbow, pain in the bone on the inner side of the elbow labral tear , an injury to the tissue that holds the arm in place little league elbow, pain in the elbow joint that occurs in young baseball players before the age of puberty shoulder tendinitis , tendinopathy, or tendinosis, also called tennis shoulder, which are tiny tears or inflammation in the tendons that connect the shoulder to the muscles of the rotator cuff and biceps shoulder sprain tennis elbow, pain in the bone on the outside of the elbow Procedures we perform include: adhesive capsulitis surgery for frozen shoulder, during which the arm is moved at the shoulder joint to relieve pain and stiffness stabilization shoulder surgery rotator cuff repair , a surgery to fix tears in the muscles of the shoulder and upper arm shoulder replacement and reverse total shoulder replacement, particularly for people with shoulder osteoarthritis tendon repair Female Pelvic Conditions & Treatments If you have a urogynecologic condition, such as recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs), , or bladder pain syndrome (interstitial cystitis), you may be searching for an experienced and compassionate doctor to help you. At NYU Langone’s Center for Female Pelvic Medicine, our specialists treat women for a wide range of conditions and provide you with many different treatment approaches. Urinary and Stress Incontinence Urinary incontinence is the unintentional loss of urine. Stress incontinence occurs when a physical activity—such as coughing or sneezing—puts pressure, or stress, on your bladder, causing urine to leak. It results from the weakening of the muscles and tissues that support the bladder. Pelvic organ prolapse happens when the muscles and ligaments that support your pelvic organs weaken over time. The weakening causes the organs—including the bladder, rectum, uterus, ovaries, and fallopian tubes or intestines—to slip out of place, or prolapse. The prolapsed organs then push against the vaginal walls, causing pressure, discomfort, or pain. Bladder Dysfunction Also known as voiding dysfunction, bladder dysfunction occurs when your bladder either does not empty completely, or it empties too frequently or “without permission.” Recurrent Urinary Tract Infections UTIs occur when bacteria invade and multiply in the urinary tract system, which includes the kidneys, bladder, ureters, and urethra. Women are more susceptible to UTIs than men because of their shorter urinary tracts. Some women experience recurrent UTIs, meaning that they contract the infection three or more times a year. Urologic Consequences of Neurologic Disease Certain neurologic conditions may cause UTIs and bladder dysfunction. A or spinal cord injury or chronic conditions such as multiple sclerosis may affect your bladder health as well. Bladder Pain Syndrome Bladder pain syndrome, also known as interstitial cystitis, is a chronic inflammation of the bladder wall that causes severe pain. The cause is unknown and doctors only arrive at a diagnosis of interstitial cystitis after ruling out all other urologic and pelvic conditions. Radiation-Induced Lower Urinary Tract Dysfunction Women who undergo radiation therapy as part of cancer treatment may find that the radiation leads to urogynecologic problems, such as incontinence, urinary frequency and urgency, difficulty emptying the bladder, and kidney problems. These problems may not occur until many years after radiation therapy is completed. Fistulas of the Urinary Tract A urinary fistula is an abnormal opening between the bladder and vagina, between the urethra and the vagina, or between the ureter and the vagina. Common causes of urinary fistulas include surgery such as a hysterectomy, radiation to the pelvis, or pelvic trauma. The fistulas cause urinary incontinence because the urine flows directly from the bladder or ureter into the vagina. Urethral Diverticulum Urethral diverticulum is a condition in which a small pouch forms next to your urethra. The pouch connects to your urethra and fills with urine, causing pain during or after urination, irritation, dribbling of urine, incontinence, recurrent UTIs, and painful intercourse. Treatments We Offer We offer a variety of treatment options for female pelvic conditions, such as medications, depending on your particular condition. We also work closely with NYU Langone physical therapists and physiatrists, or rehabilitation experts, to help you make lifestyle changes through exercises, weight loss, diet changes, and control of chronic cough, which can help relieve your symptoms. Your doctor may recommend physical therapy to relieve symptoms associated with pelvic floor disorders. Physical therapy can strengthen weakened muscles, improve the flexibility of tight muscles, teach self-care and relaxation techniques, and improve the coordination of your pelvic floor and abdominal muscles. Surgery is a treatment option for a variety of urogynecologic conditions, both common and rare, including , reconstruction of the lower urinary tract and vagina,  urethral dysfunction, and other bladder conditions. If you are concerned about how surgery may affect your fertility, talk to your doctor. There are a number of fertility-sparing surgeries available. We also offer uterine-sparing operations for women who are no longer in their childbearing years. In addition, several of the procedures we offer are so minimally invasive that you do not even need to enter an operating room. These include urethral bulking, a procedure used to manage urinary incontinence in which your doctor injects synthetic materials or collagen around the urethra to augment the urethral wall and increase resistance to urinary flow; transvaginal tape, which can support the middle of the urethra; a pubovaginal sling, which can stop urine leakage; and injections of botulinum toxin (Botox At NYU Langone, our gynecologic surgeons are committed to excellence through expertise. We use minimally invasive surgical techniques like laparoscopy and robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery. But the mastery lies in our ability to pair the right procedure with the right patient, ensuring that each person receives a distinct treatment plan best targeted to their individual needs. By using minimally invasive treatments, our patients experience faster recovery times, reduced pain, smaller incisions, and shorter hospital stays. These are some of the conditions we treat: heavy or painful menstrual periods ovarian cysts ovarian remnant syndrome adenomyosis, in which the endometrial lining grows into the muscular wall of the uterus adenomyoma, which is a benign tumor pelvic adhesions cervical insufficiency or incompetence congenital anomalies of the reproductive system NYU Langone gynecologic surgeons use the most advanced laparoscopic and robotic surgical techniques. Our specialists are experienced in urogynecology, pelvic reconstructive surgery, minimally invasive surgery, robotic surgery, and pediatric and adolescent gynecology. Your care begins with using the most accurate and advanced diagnosis strategies to develop a treatment plan customized to your condition and your care goals. We support our patients with access to fertility services, nutrition guidance, mental health services, and physical therapy. We also address the needs of the LGBTQ+ community, providing respectful and inclusive care that is focused on the whole person. Laparoscopic and robotic procedures use only small incisions and have a shorter recovery time than other methods. Those we perform include the following: excision of endometriosis, including deep, infiltrating endometriosis involving bowel, bladder, and extrapelvic sites myomectomy , the surgical removal of fibroids hysterectomy, the surgical removal of the uterus management of ovarian cysts or masses cerclage, to treat cervical insufficiency and help prevent miscarriage prolapse repair Our gynecologic surgeons use minimally invasive techniques whenever possible to achieve better outcomes for their patients. Hysteroscopic procedures, which use a light scope to examine the cervix and uterus, include the following: resection (removal) of endometrial polyp resection of submucosal fibroid resection of uterine septum lysis of adhesions to treat Asherman’s syndrome endometrial ablation We also perform transcervical fibroid ablation , an ultrasound procedure also known by the brand name Sonata that is used to shrink fibroids. Specialized Surgical Care For people living with endometriosis and fibroids, we offer an integrative care approach that addresses your treatment goals, including preserving or improving fertility. At our , we provide uterine-preserving treatments that include robotic-assisted myomectomy, uterine artery embolization, and radiofrequency ablation. Doctors at our specialize in treatments that align with a woman’s fertility goals. This includes conservative, fertility-preserving surgery that removes endometriosis, and hysterectomy that removes the uterus as well as all endometriosis for people who do not wish to maintain future fertility. To optimize patient outcomes, minimally invasive gynecologic surgeons collaborate with other specialists at NYU Langone, including those in reproductive endocrinology, infertility, maternal–fetal medicine, colorectal surgery, urology, vascular surgery, interventional radiology, pain psychology, and physical therapy. Our gynecologic surgeons specialize in minimally invasive laparoscopic and robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery. Patricia Gil Hye-Chun Hur Division Director, Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery We provide the full spectrum of gynecologic care, including family planning, pregnancy, menopause, and treatment for conditions that affect the uterus and reproductive system. NYU Langone’s orthopedic trauma team is the most experienced and highly trained in the New York City area, each year providing urgent and follow-up care to thousands of people with traumatic orthopedic injuries and fractures. We treat people age 16 and older. Our surgeons treat every level of injury, from sprains and fractures to life-threatening trauma. Because of the nature of traumatic injury, our orthopedists work closely with plastic surgeons neurosurgeons , and vascular surgeons to deliver the highest level of care. We use advanced techniques to care for injuries to nerves and blood vessels, as well as injuries involving soft tissue loss. Conditions we treat include the following: acute fractures of bones, including the ankle, foot, tibia, tibial plateau, knee , femur, femur shaft, distal femur, distal radius, ulna, forearm, humerus, proximal humerus, humerus shaft, distal humerus, clavicle, hip and pelvis shoulder and elbow stress and insufficiency fractures , which are tiny breaks that develop as a result of repetitive or high-impact activity fragility fractures, which usually result from minor trauma such as a fall from standing in people who have weak bones problem orthopedic trauma such as fractures that do not join or heal improperly , failure of hardware such as screws or a prosthesis, or fractures that involve muscle or other soft tissue fracture-related infections and osteomyelitis , which is an infection in the bone Among the procedures we perform are the following: fracture repairs and joint-preserving surgery bone grafts, in which a donated piece of bone is used to help repair a fracture, fuse bones, or fill in gaps in the bone caused by cysts or tumors fracture reduction or fracture setting, which aligns a broken bone so it may heal properly joint contracture releases for the treatment of immobile joints limb lengthening, in which surgery and medical devices can lengthen a limb over time osteomyelitis treatment to cure bone infection We also create treatment plans to improve bone health and increase bone mass. Our surgeons provide emergency and urgent care at the following locations: Trauma Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Trauma Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island We provide outpatient and ambulatory care at the following locations: NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery—Rutherford Place NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Garden City To reach one of our orthopedic trauma experts, call 800-FRACTUR or 800-372-2887 . In most cases, we are able to provide care the same day you call. In addition, our surgeons work as part of the interdisciplinary teams at NYU Langone’s Bone Healing Center Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center Limb Salvage and Restoration Center Doctors at NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services provide the most advanced, compassionate care for people interested in all types of genetic counseling and testing. We offer medical genetics evaluations that can identify and guide treatment of childhood and adult disorders, whether or not they are hereditary If you have been referred for genetic evaluation, you may have questions about the appointment and what tests you may have to take. Our goal is to provide you with an exact diagnosis. We share with you whatever is known about the condition, the cause or pattern of how it is inherited, and the course of the condition. We advise you on treatment options, including preventive measures and testing recommendations, and offer you information about support groups and educational opportunities to learn more about the condition. We may provide you with ongoing care or refer you to another specialist. We provide your referring physician with a detailed letter from our team summarizing your evaluation. Your records and diagnosis are not released to anyone else, nor are they discussed with an individual or group unless you give us specific permission in writing. That includes other family members, professionals from other institutions, and insurance companies. We encourage you to discuss anything that relates to your experience of having a child with a specific condition, your concern about having a hereditary condition yourself, or anything else that may help you feel more comfortable about your particular situation. Genetics Evaluation You may have been referred to us for a genetic evaluation for a number of reasons, including: Your child may have been born with a physical problem and the cause must be determined. Your child may not be developing either physically or mentally as expected for his or her age. You may have a condition that is suspected of being hereditary, or you may have a history of a hereditary condition in your family and want to know about its nature, the possibility for treatment, and the risk to other family members. Some evaluations can be completed in one session; some may require two or more. The entire evaluation may take anywhere from one day to several months. The number of sessions depends on the type of problem and the complexity of the evaluation. Your initial session can be expected to last one to two hours and subsequent visits are usually shorter. We also offer sessions for clinical genetic evaluations and genetic counseling at NYU Langone’s We start your genetic evaluation by getting a detailed family health and medical history and, if appropriate, perform a physical examination. For some patients, it may be important to examine other family members as well. We may recommend tests such as blood analyses and X-rays—though not all patients require tests—and a consultation with other specialists for the most thorough evaluation. Our program is in-network with many medical insurance plans, so please ask when you make your appointment. Most medical insurance plans cover genetic testing, but call your provider to make sure. We are able to get preauthorization for genetic testing under most circumstances—we do not begin testing until we’ve verified that it is covered by your insurance provider. NYU Langone’s orthopedic foot and ankle care program is one of the oldest in the United States, founded more than 45 years ago by a pioneer of the specialty, Dr. Paul Lapidus. Today, we have more than 10,000 patient visits and perform more than 800 surgical procedures each year. Our surgeons handle all conditions and injuries of the foot and ankle. In partnership with doctors at the Diabetic Foot and Ankle Center , we also treat people who have complex orthopedic issues connected to foot-related complications of VIDEO: Dr. John G. Kennedy discusses the different ways we use NanoScope technology to get our patients back on their feet quickly. Ankle replacement is available at . Advanced ankle arthritis may require an ankle fusion, which provides excellent pain relief, but no longer allows you to move your foot at the ankle joint. Total ankle arthroplasty, or ankle replacement, may be an effective option for some people with advanced arthritis to provide both pain relief and preserve motion. We also diagnose and treat people with ankle conditions using the NanoScope arthroscopy imaging system. Using this needle-sized instrument with an image-sensing chip at the tip, our surgeons can see inside the ankle joint to diagnose conditions such as arthritis and cartilage injuries and to perform minimally invasive procedures such as an ankle debridement to remove scar tissue or floating bone fragments. Procedures can be performed with local anesthesia in your doctor’s office, and you can follow along on a screen to get a better sense of what has been causing you pain. Conditions we provide treatment for include the following: Achilles tendonitis , which is inflammation of the tendon that connects the calf muscle to the heel bone foot injuries caused by complications of diabetes, including slow-healing wounds called ulcers foot and ankle arthritis foot, ankle, and toe fractures foot, ankle, and toe sprains caused by a tear in the ligaments hammertoe , or a toe that remains bent high arched foot, a condition in which too much weight is put on the ball of the foot, causing pain and stiffness metatarsalgia, or pain in the ball of the foot plantar fasciitis , inflammation of the tissue attached to the heel bone Procedures we perform include the following: amputation of leg, foot, or toe, often performed because of trauma or injury, infection, tumors, or lack of blood flow ankle fusion ankle replacement arthrodesis of foot and ankle, a procedure used to fuse the two bones together as a way to relieve pain from arthritis and other conditions corrective surgery for bunions , which are caused by excess bone in the area where the big toe connects to the foot fracture reduction, in which screws or other supportive devices are used to repair a broken bone NYU Langone adult reconstructive surgeons specialize in a full spectrum of joint care. We perform nearly 4,000 surgeries each year, a number that ensures you receive care from some of the most experienced surgeons in the field. Our team evaluates your joint-related condition and determines the best surgical approach for your body and lifestyle. Our surgeons are renowned for their expertise in performing joint replacements and minimally invasive surgeries that involve the knee, shoulder, and hip, as well as minimally invasive procedures such as anterior hip replacement and complex joint revision surgery. We also provide robotic and computer-assisted surgery for hip and knee replacement procedures. We perform reconstructive surgery for the following conditions: avascular necrosis, also known as , which results from a lack of blood supply to bones, most often in the hip and shoulder developmental defects of the hip and knee osteoarthritis, which causes pain, swelling, and reduced motion in the hands, knees hips spine foot and ankle gouty arthritis, caused by a buildup of uric acid in the joints osteitis deformans, also known as Paget’s disease, a bone condition that causes enlarged, deformed bones problems that develop with osteochondritis, also known as Legg-Calve-Perthes disease , a childhood condition that stops blood flow to the hip and can lead to early joint degeneration in adulthood posttraumatic arthritis, which occurs after injury to a joint, resulting in pain and swelling , which causes joint pain, swelling, and stiffness as a result of the immune system attacking otherwise healthy joints , an autoimmune disorder that causes the body to attack its own healthy joints, skin, and other organs the worsening of slipped-capital-femoral epiphysis, or SCFE, a childhood condition that can lead to early joint degeneration in adulthood elbow replacement surgery hip replacement surgery, also known as hip arthroplasty, as well as anterior hip replacement surgery, minimally invasive hip surgery, and robotic-assisted hip surgery joint replacement revision surgery of the hip, knee, shoulder, and elbow to correct problems from a prior replacement surgery knee and hip osteotomy, a surgery to realign the joint and heal damage caused by osteoarthritis knee replacement surgery, also known as knee arthroplasty, minimally invasive knee surgery, and robotic-assisted knee surgery shoulder replacement surgery, minimally invasive shoulder surgery, and robotic-assisted shoulder surgery Musculoskeletal oncologists at NYU Langone provide treatment for many types of bone and soft tissue tumors. We take a team approach to diagnosis and treatment, bringing together orthopedists and professionals in radiology, pathology, and plastic surgery. We also collaborate with surgical oncologists, medical oncologists, and radiation therapy experts at the Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Program at NYU Langone's to discuss your condition, consider your lifestyle and needs, and formulate the best treatment plan for you. alveolar soft-part sarcoma, a rare cancer that occurs in the legs angiosarcoma, a cancer of the blood or lymph vessels, which is also referred to as lymphangiosarcoma chondrosarcoma, a cancerous tumor at the base of the skull or the bone along the back of the eyes, including extraskeletal chondrosarcoma clear cell sarcoma, a cancer that begins in tendons and can spread to nearby lymph nodes desmoplastic small round cell tumor, which starts in the abdomen and can spread to other areas of the pelvis Ewing sarcoma, a tumor that forms in bone or soft tissue, including extraskeletal Ewing sarcoma extraskeletal osteosarcoma, a bone and cartilage tumor fibrosarcoma, a soft-tissue cancer most commonly found in middle-aged adults and seniors ganglioneuroblastoma, rare tumors that form in nerve tissue hemangiopericytoma, a blood vessel tumor leiomyosarcoma, cancer of the smooth muscle cells liposarcoma, cancer of the fat cells malignant fibrous histiocytoma, a soft-tissue tumor found most commonly in the legs malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor, also known as neurofibrosarcoma, a tumor that covers nerves and is associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 malignant schwannomas, cancer of the nerves metastatic bone disease, cancer that starts elsewhere in the body and then spreads to bone osteocartilaginous exostosis, also known as osteochondroma, a benign bone tumor osteogenic sarcoma, osteosarcoma, and other forms of in adults and rhabdomyosarcoma, a cancerous tumor found in muscle synovial cell sarcomas, cancer of the foot Our m usculoskeletal oncologists perform many types of procedures, including the removal of benign and malignant tumors of the musculoskeletal system. Other tests and procedures we perform include biopsies to remove suspect cells to test for abnormalities and limb-sparing surgery. NYU Langone has one of the largest hand surgery programs in the United States, providing comprehensive care for injuries to the hand, wrist, finger, and forearm. These conditions are often caused by arthritis; fractures and dislocations of the wrist and hand; lacerations of tendons, nerves, and arteries; and acquired conditions such as and other nerve compression disorders of the upper extremities. Hand evaluations are performed at our Hand Center, which offers the full spectrum of care for upper extremity–related injuries for patients of all ages. Our board-certified and fellowship-trained hand specialists evaluate and treat thousands of patients each year. Some of the most effective treatments do not require surgery—they involve hand therapy and the use of several types of splints created by our certified hand therapists. When surgery is necessary, the latest and most sophisticated techniques are used. More than 5,000 hand procedures are performed each year at NYU Langone. Learn more about the conditions we specialize in and the treatments we provide at our Hand Center View All Locations (17) Mammograms are X-rays of the breasts. There are two types reviewed and interpreted by NYU Langone radiologists: screening and diagnostic. Screening mammograms are done for women that have no symptoms, problems, or concerns, and have never had . This is recommended on an annual basis starting at age 40, unless a woman is at a high risk for breast cancer, in which case screening may begin earlier. Diagnostic mammograms are performed if additional images are needed after a screening mammogram, or if a patient has a new symptom or concern such as feeling a new lump, has a history of breast cancer, or is undergoing short-term follow-up for a finding that is likely benign. A mammogram delivers a small dose of radiation. Learn more about radiation safety at NYU Langone What to Bring to Your Breast Imaging Appointment Please bring any previous mammogram results, such as reports, films, or CD-ROMs, if they are available. On the day of your exam, bring your prescription if you did not fax it and your insurance card. Our Locations (17) NYU Langone Radiology—Fort Hamilton 8721 5th Avenue, 3rd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 917-536-9240 917-536-9263 NYU Langone Radiology—Ambulatory Care Garden City NYU Langone Opens New Radiology Location in Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Expands Breast Cancer Services View All Locations (19) As we grow older, our bones lose some of their calcium, which weakens them and makes them more prone to fractures. Mild bone loss is referred to as osteopenia, and more severe loss is known as Bone densitometry is an exam used by physicians at NYU Langone to diagnose bone loss. Your doctor may also use it as a tool to follow the results of any treatment initiated to address this bone loss. Preparing for a Bone Density Test You may eat normally on the day of the test. If you are taking calcium supplements, please avoid taking them for 24 hours prior to the exam. Wear loose, comfortable clothing without buttons, zippers, or snaps, if possible. Inform your doctor and the technologist if you have received barium or any other contrast agent or radioisotope during a CT or other scan in the past 10 to 14 days. If so, you may have to reschedule the bone density test for a later time. Please inform your doctor and technologist if there is a chance that you may be pregnant. Prior to having the test, we ask that you fill out this brief bone densitometry screening form During the Bone Density Test The established standard bone density test is dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, or DEXA. Measurements are most commonly taken of your lower spine and both hips. Occasionally, the test may include the bones in the forearm. The exam is performed with you comfortably lying down on your back. During the spinal portion of the examination, your legs are raised and resting on a soft foam cushion, which straightens your spine. When examining your hips, your feet are placed in a brace to rotate your hips inward. The scanner slowly passes above the areas of interest as it collects information that is used to make a diagnosis. The exam usually lasts for about 15 minutes. Our Locations (19) Our genetic counselors have graduate training in both medical genetics and counseling and are certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling. Your counselor can help you consider the factors that influence your decision-making and provide support. Jill Borsuk Abrams, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Borsuk completed her bachelor’s degree at Cornell University and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at Northwestern University. She is board-certified by the American Board of Genetic Counseling (ABGC). Her area of clinical specialty is pediatric genetic counseling. Katherine Daley, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Daley completed her bachelor’s degree at the University of Pennsylvania and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at Sarah Lawrence College. She has been board-certified by the ABGC since 1999. Her area of interest is pediatric genetic counseling. Rachel Rabin, MS, CGC, Genetic Counselor Ms. Rabin completed her bachelor’s degree at Tulane University and her master’s-level training in genetic counseling at LIU Post. She is board-certified by the ABGC. Her clinical specialty is pediatric genetic counseling. 212-263-8346 212-263-8524 At NYU Langone’s Vein Center, our vascular surgeons offer minimally invasive procedures to treat painful and unsightly varicose veins and spider veins, as well as deep venous conditions such as May–Thurner syndrome, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) , venous ulcers, and pelvic congestion syndrome. Our goal is to improve your quality of life as well as provide an optimal cosmetic appearance. Varicose and Spider Vein Treatments We offer the full range of varicose vein treatments, including the following: thermal ablation using radiofrequency and laser heat to collapse the vein nonthermal ablation using specialized glue and foam to stop blood flow to the vein microphlebectomy, which uses very small incisions to remove varicose veins After your initial varicose vein treatment, we offer sclerotherapy to remove any residual spider veins. A very small amount of a specialized solution is placed in the remaining vein, causing it to collapse and be reabsorbed by the body. Treatment for Deep Venous Conditions Procedures to treat deep venous conditions are performed at our dedicated Outpatient Vascular Surgery Center. We offer the most advanced diagnostic tools and treatment techniques, including intravascular ultrasound, which uses soundwaves to create images of affected veins, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open up any compressed or closed veins. These treatments require only mild sedation, allowing for a rapid return to your everyday activities. Our internationally renowned surgeons are committed to excellence in patient care, . We treat the full range of venous conditions, and are engaged in almost every national clinical trial into new treatments and therapies. Our goal is to make you feel better, improve your quality of life, and have you looking your best. Our surgeons are world-renowned for their expertise in minimally invasive vein procedures. Katherine Teter We have locations across New York City, as well as Long Island and Westchester County. 844-888-8301 Sports Cardiology Sports Gastroenterology Sports Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Sports Pulmonology Sports Rehabilitation Sports Rheumatology Athletic Training Services Center for Women’s Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Center Sports Performance Center Sports Performance & Wellness Lectures Registration Form Our Partners ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Complete Care for the Athlete We provide primary and specialty care services and sports, health, and fitness testing for athletes and other active people. Leaders in Rehabilitation Rusk Rehabilitation has ranked among the top 10 hospitals in the nation by since 1989. NYU Langone Sports Health experts know that athletes and other active people have unique lifestyle considerations and goals when it comes to getting and staying healthy. It’s why we offer a range of specialized care services and programs designed to meet all your health and wellness needs—and get you back in the game after illness or injury. Subscribe to the Sports Health Newsletter Get the latest news and advice from Sports Health, and information about upcoming events. Subscribe VIDEO: No matter your sport or activity, no matter your health concern, NYU Langone Sports Health experts have you covered with first-in-class care. Our team comprises sports experts across specialties—including , dermatology, endocrinology, exercise physiology, gastroenterology , orthopedic surgery, physical medicine and rehabilitation , occupational and physical therapy, pulmonary medicine rheumatology , and sports medicine. Together, they provide complete care for athletes of all ages and levels, including treatment and prevention strategies for injury or illness, customized rehabilitation programs, and sports performance enhancement and training. Our dedicated clinical coordinator guides your or your child’s care with the specialists on our team with the goal of providing you with a seamless experience. They answer your questions and help you make appointments with the appropriate providers on our team. Contact our clinical coordinator at SportsHealth@NYULangone.org Whether you’re a runner with a skin rash, a soccer player coping with gastrointestinal issues, or a casual weekend basketball player with an ankle sprain, you’ll get comprehensive, multidisciplinary care from the experts at NYU Langone’s Sports Health. Our Specialty Care Programs Tips for Staying at the Top of Your Game A Patient’s Guide to Shoulder Replacement Surgery: Podcast Martial Artist Doing What He Loves After Hip Replacement Our orthopedic experts provide world-class care through our specialty programs. NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons and primary care sports medicine doctors care for people with acute and chronic sports-related and overuse injuries through the Through the , we provide injury care, physical therapy, and obstetric–gynecologic care, as well as training advice designed to help women reach their athletic goals. Pediatric sports medicine specialists provide