a bachelor’s degree in athletic training from Dominican College and is a registered and licensed athletic trainer. She has worked in many different clinical settings, helping to expand her knowledge of various methods and treatment plans used in sports rehabilitation programs. Ms. Cooper is also licensed in acupuncture and herbal medicine by the State of New York and is recognized as a Doctor of Chinese Medicine by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine. She also graduated from Pacific College of Oriental Medicine and is skilled in all primary Chinese medicine modalities, including acupuncture, moxibustion, herbal formulas, cupping, gua sha, and tui na. In her role as an athletic trainer, she provides community outreach concerning the prevention, evaluation, management, treatment, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Anthony Jones, ATC, CSCS Mr. Jones is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from Stony Brook University and certification as a strength and conditioning specialist. Before working at NYU Langone, he worked with the athletic training program at NYU Langone Hopsital—Long Island. Anthony has experience with various high school programs and at the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division III level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he is responsible for managing injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries in conjunction with other members of the sports health team. He also supports outreach opportunities as well as sports health and Concussion Center initiatives. Timothy Muse, ATC Mr. Muse is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from the University of New Hampshire. Before working for NYU Langone, he worked as the head athletic trainer at the secondary school level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he is responsible for managing injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of athletic injuries in conjunction with other members of the Sports Health team. He also supports outreach opportunities and Sports Health and Concussion Center initiatives. Pediatric Care Team Molly Bucciero, MS, OTL/L Pediatric Occupational Therapist Ms. Bucciero is a registered and licensed occupational therapist with advanced training in visual rehabilitation. She evaluates and treats children from birth to age 21 who have visual conditions and visual symptoms related to both traumatic and nontraumatic brain injuries. MeganConklin, PT, DPT Program Manager, Pedatric Therapy Services Dr. Conklin is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy and is the pediatric physical therapy supervisor at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. She has advanced training in pediatric vestibular rehabilitation, and evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and TBI. Iona D’Sa, CCC-SLP Speech–Language Pathology Supervisor Ms. D’Sa has extensive pediatric experience, particularly in the area of childhood brain injury. She is responsible for program development, goal setting, and education of speech–language pathologists and other team members on the topics of pediatric brain injury occurrence, speech and language symptoms, assessment and intervention, and outcome measures. Jessica Hubert, PT, DPT, NCS, CSCS Dr. Hubert is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric and neurologic physical therapy. She is a certified strength and conditioning specialist and is a certified brain injury specialist. She evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and traumatic and nontraumatic brain injury. Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT Physical Therapy Supervisor Dr. Lam is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy. She oversees clinical programming for pediatric concussion at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. She has advanced training in both adult and pediatric vestibular rehabilitation. She evaluates and treats children and teenagers who have vestibular symptoms and traumatic and nontraumatic brain injury. Carol Rosen, PhD Dr. Rosen provides neuropsychological evaluations and psychotherapy to children, adolescents, and young adults with various medical conditions. She also consults with schools to help her patients return to the classroom after a concussion. Dr. Rosen has published in the areas of self-concept and emotional–behavioral functioning of children with brachial plexus birth injury as well as the effects of chemotherapy on cognitive functioning. Many rehabilitation services are available at our 4,000-square-foot , a unique space in New York City that brings together multiple specialists to ensure you receive comprehensive care for your injury. We also provide concussion care on Long Island and in Brooklyn. Our space was designed for people who’ve had concussions: Lighting is dim, colors are tranquil, and there are no televisions or other distractions that could be uncomfortable for someone recovering from a concussion. The Concussion Center is staffed by physical therapists, occupational therapists, psychologists, social workers, and speech–language pathologists who specialize in concussion treatment. We provide vision rehabilitation to improve visual, perceptual, and motor skills, such as reading, writing, computer use, and other work- and school-related activities. Vocational therapy is also available to help people return to the workplace after a concussion. We also offer general orthopedic physical therapy for musculoskeletal injuries related to concussion, vestibular rehabilitation to maximize the body’s natural ability to compensate for symptoms of dizziness and balance disorders, and an exertional therapy program to help you return to sports and activity. Problems with understanding or producing written and verbal language are addressed as well. Our speech–language pathologists provide therapies that maximize memory and attention skills and aid in the understanding of language. The goal is to help people reclaim their independence by teaching strategies that can be used at home, work, and in school. In addition, we offer neuropsychology and rehabilitation psychology services, including cognitive and psychological assessment, cognitive remediation, and individual and group psychological interventions. Stem Cell Treatments in Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Specialists at NYU Langone’s use stem cell therapies as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for musculoskeletal injuries and conditions. Stem cells are a special type of cell. Some types, given the right conditions, can develop into different types of cells, such as muscle, bone, cartilage, blood, or nerve cells. Evidence suggests that for some conditions, injecting stem cells into the damaged tissue reduces inflammation and pain, improves function, and may help the tissue to heal and regrow. Stem cells can also interact with other blood cells to stimulate the immune system and act as powerful anti-inflammatory agents. Adult Mesenchymal Stem Cells At NYU Langone, we use adult mesenchymal stem cells, which are retrieved from bone marrow or fat tissue, and then concentrated into a solution that is injected directly into damaged tissue. Our experts use these stem cell injections to help treat orthopedic conditions, including the following: damage to, or fracture of the cartilage of the ankle, knee, or elbow; also called osteochondral injuries During a stem cell therapy procedure, your doctor may retrieve stem cells from fat tissue, also called adipose tissue, or your own bone marrow. To take stem cells from your bone marrow, the doctor thoroughly numbs an area at your pelvic bone and then uses a syringe to extract bone marrow fluid, also known as bone marrow aspirate. The solution is concentrated into a serum that is injected directly in the affected tissue. Fat tissue is also an abundant supply of stem cells and other factors. Your doctor removes fat tissue from your abdomen after numbing the area or while you are under anesthesia. The stem cells are separated from the fat and then injected into the affected joint or tissue. After stem cell therapy, your doctor may recommend that you avoid taking anti-inflammatory medications for up to several weeks. Your doctor may also advise you to limit activity while the injury heals. Depending on your condition or injury, you may experience improved function and pain relief within six weeks. You doctor will explain what to expect after treatment. Financial Assistance for Dancers provides medical care to injured dancers who may not otherwise be able to pay for treatment. Care at our is provided by physicians who donate their time and professional services. Some costs may be covered by public or private sources. International students may also qualify for financial assistance. Resources for Dancers During COVID-19 The following organizations and funds offer assistance to individual dancers and artists, organizations, or both. Alliance of Artists Communities Emergency Relief Programs American Guild of Musical Artists COVID-19 Resource COVID-19 Freelance Artist Resources Dance/NYC Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information and Resources for the NYC Dance Community Dance/NYC COVID-19 Dance Relief Fund National Coalition for Arts’ Preparedness and Emergency Response Resources New York Foundation for the Arts Emergency Resources Rauschenberg Medical Emergency Grants The Dance Union NYC Dancers Relief Fund Financial Counseling Patient financial counselors are available to discuss any outstanding financial responsibilities not covered by insurance. We can help you apply for assistance from government programs or from our financial assistance program You can reach a patient financial counselor by calling or by visiting us in the lobby of the Vilcek Institute of Graduate Biomedical Sciences at 560 First Avenue, Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 5:00PM. Special Assistance Fund In 1997, the LuEsther T. Mertz Advised Fund at the New York Community Trust made a challenge gift to the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries to create an endowment that would ensure a long-term solution for providing dancers with access to healthcare when they don’t have insurance or other financial means. Dancers with a proven financial need are eligible for support by this endowment if they complete an application and submit proof of income, savings, and expenses. To find out more about the special assistance fund and to receive an application, please call Medicaid Office Locations If you are interested in seeing if you are eligible for Medicaid, a federal healthcare program for people who meet certain income guidelines, please view a list of office locations in the New York metropolitan area. Pancreatic Disease Program Clinical Care Team The clinical care team at NYU Langone’s provides comprehensive care to people with pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis, pancreatic cysts, and other conditions of the pancreas. Our experts are conveniently located in New York City and on Long Island. The Pancreatic Disease Program is led by esteemed leaders in gastroenterology, medical oncology, and surgery. Advanced Endoscopy Gastrointestinal Oncology, Medical Oncology Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Surgical Oncology, General Surgery Gastroenterology and Advanced Endoscopy Seth A. Gross, MD Gastroenterology, Advanced Endoscopy Gregory B. Haber, MD Eileen Janec, MD Lauren G. Khanna, MD Jessica Widmer, DO Gary B. Deutsch, MD Surgical Oncology, Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Melanoma Surgery Greg Sacks, MD, MPH, PhD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Surgical Oncology John D. Allendorf, MD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Endocrine Surgery Megan D. Winner, MD Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Medical Oncology Nina Beri, MD Jennifer Chuy, MD Shun Yu, MD Radiation Oncology Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD Fauzia Shaikh, MD Christopher G. Gharibo, MD Radiology Hersh Chandarana, MD Abdominal Imaging, Radiology Chenchan Huang, MD Abdominal Imaging Nutrition and Psychology Our registered dietitian, Arielle Leben, MS, RD, CDN, works closely with the people we treat to offer personalized nutrition guidance about making healthy food choices, meal planning, and dietary supplements. Our clinical psychologist, Jessica A. Gerson, PhD, provides care to people with pancreatic conditions and those who have had or will have pancreatic surgery. She offers short-term individual psychotherapy and runs support groups. A left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is a mechanical device that is surgically implanted in the body to help a heart that has been weakened by or cardiogenic shock to pump blood through the body. It is designed for people with advanced heart failure who are currently awaiting a or those who are not transplant candidates. Video: Making Heart Failure a Manageable Condition , our team offers commercially available long-term devices. In recent years, LVADs have become smaller, quieter, and more portable, significantly improving the quality of life for patients. Your cardiac specialist performs an extensive medical evaluation to determine your eligibility for an LVAD . Prior to surgery, our experts explain the details of LVAD surgery and provide information on your recovery and rehabilitation plan. Our heart failure surgeons are specially trained and certified to implant LVADs. The devices are implanted and connected to the left ventricle, or bottom left heart chamber, and the aorta, the main artery leaving the heart. A cable that powers the pump exits the body through the abdomen and connects to a controller and battery packs, which are recharged nightly. When the surgery is complete, the LVAD takes over the pumping function of the left side of the heart, working in tandem with the right side of the heart to pump blood through your body. Recovering from LVAD Surgery The procedure to implant an LVAD takes place at in Manhattan or in Mineola. After surgery, your recovery begins in the intensive care unit, where our cardiac experts monitor your health. As you regain strength, you may begin with rehabilitation experts from NYU Langone’s . Your hospital stay may last from two to four weeks. Doctors from NYU Langone’s carefully evaluate people who have symptoms of advanced to determine if they are candidates for this lifesaving, heart-assisting device. Heart failure symptoms can include severe fatigue, shortness of breath with limited activity, and a frequent buildup of fluid in the body that has led to repeated hospitalizations. For people with advanced heart failure who are awaiting a , an LVAD may be surgically implanted and remain in place for several years until a donor heart becomes available. For people who are not candidates for a heart transplant, an LVAD can be permanently implanted, with the goal of extending a person’s life as well as improving quality of life. Reasons for ineligibility for a heart transplant can include other major health issues that may interfere with the success of a transplant. An LVAD may not be recommended for people with major brain injuries, serious infections, severe kidney failure, or other life-threatening conditions. Platelet-Rich Plasma Injections in Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine use platelet-rich plasma alone or in combination with other treatments to help musculoskeletal injuries and conditions heal more quickly and reduce pain and inflammation. Platelets, along with red blood cells and white blood cells, are one of the solid components of blood. These sticky cell fragments cause blood to clot; growth factors, found in platelets, play an important part in how the body heals itself. Plasma is the liquid part of blood. It is mostly water, but also contains proteins and other nutrients. Platelet-rich plasma, or PRP, is made by combining a concentrated solution of platelets with plasma, which your doctor injects directly into the damaged tissue. There is evidence suggesting platelet-rich plasma can improve function and reduce pain in people with the following acute or chronic conditions: damage to, or fracture of, the cartilage of the ankle, knee, or elbow; also called osteochondral injuries Platelet-Rich Plasma Treatment To receive platelet-rich plasma, your doctor takes a small amount of your blood from a vein in your arm and then uses a device called a centrifuge to separate the platelets and growth factors from other parts of the blood. This solution is placed in a syringe, and your doctor injects it directly into the affected tissue, using ultrasound guidance if necessary for precision and accuracy. This is an in-office procedure and usually takes no more than 30 minutes. After the treatment, you may experience soreness at the injection site for a few days. Your doctor may advise you to avoid anti-inflammatory medications for up to several weeks after the procedure. This is because the platelet-rich plasma injection stimulates the body’s inflammatory response, a key part of healing that these medications could block. After a platelet-rich plasma injection, your doctor may also advise you to limit or avoid activity for up to six weeks, depending on the injury or condition, to allow it to heal. How soon you experience relief, and how long that relief lasts, depends on several factors, including the severity of your injury or condition. Your doctor will explain what you can expect. At NYU Langone’s Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, the Joint Preservation Registry aims to advance personalized medicine in orthopedic and musculoskeletal care. Currently focusing on cartilage damage and osteoarthritis of the knee , the registry captures and combines clinical, biomarker, and outcome data over a five-year period to improve the treatment of knee osteoarthritis. The goal is to identify patients who may benefit from joint-preserving procedures, and those who may consider total joint replacement as a treatment option. Rheumatologist Dr. Jonathan Samuels examines a patient. All patients of who have knee complaints are encouraged to enroll. As an observational study, participation does not require any changes to standard procedures. Study participants are not required to come in for extra visits, nor are they turned away from coming into the clinic as part of a study exercise. Patients continue to participate in their own treatment decisions, and can rest assured that time with their physician is not disrupted. Participants are asked to answer a brief survey via email once a year. The survey asks about at-home treatments used for their condition, the development of new complaints, and the long-term outcome of their condition. All patient data is de-identified to protect the confidentiality of all study participants. As part of the registry, our researchers are analyzing: the effectiveness of alternative, nonsurgical treatments the relationship between individual patient characteristics and the response to particular treatment alternatives, as captured by patient-reported outcome scores the potential for using biomarkers to make treatment decisions for an individual patient the use of advanced radiologic imaging and high-strength MRI units to characterize joint damage Patients interested in participating in the Joint Preservation Registry should discuss participation with their NYU Langone physician. At NYU Langone’s Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, part of , we provide treatment for an array of joint-related conditions. Our team provides treatment for a wide variety of joint-related conditions. We treat injuries that affect the following areas of the body. Knee Conditions We provide treatment for , as well as anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) , posterior cruciate ligament injuries, and medial collateral ligament and lateral collateral ligament injuries. We care for cartilage and meniscus defects, patella instability, osteochondritis dissecans, and other types of knee deformities. Hip Conditions We treat patients with a variety of hip conditions, including osteoarthritis of the hip , hip cartilage injuries, osteonecrosis, dislocation, instability, and We also provide treatment for femoral acetabular impingement and other disorders of the acetabulum, developmental and congenital hip dysplasia , snapping hip, and piriformis syndrome, more commonly known as compression of the sciatic nerve near the hip joint. Shoulder Conditions osteoarthritis of the shoulder shoulder dislocation and instability. Among the other shoulder conditions we treat are acromioclavcular joint injuries, thoracic outlet syndrome Multi-Joint Arthritis We also provide treatment for all inflammatory arthritis conditions affecting more than one joint, including osteoarthritis, , gout, and At the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, we use a range of nonsurgical and surgical treatments to relieve pain and restore joint function without the immediate need for a total joint replacement. Depending on your particular condition, we may recommend oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), glucosamine, chondroitin sulfate, or topical anti-inflammatory gels and creams. Corticosteroid, or cortisone, is a type of medication that greatly reduces inflammation and can be used to manage a variety of acute and chronic conditions. We perform injections with imaging, such as ultrasound or fluoroscopic guided techniques. Other options include injecting hyaluronic acid—the substance that cushions and lubricates joints—directly into the joint to help ease pain; platelet rich plasma therapy, which involves using a component of a patient’s own blood to heal damaged parts of the joint; stem cell therapy that delivers a patient’s own stem cells into arthritic or injured joints to provide long-lasting relief from pain; and physical therapy. Alternative therapies are also available, such as acupuncture and Active Release Techniques (ART). Surgical Treatments If you require surgery, we offer a number of advanced options. These include surgical microfracture, in which tiny holes created in the bone introduce fresh blood and bone marrow to the site of an injury; procedures that transfer healthy cartilage to the site of a damaged or injured joint; meniscus repair and transplantation; a range of surgeries to realign or repair damage to the hip or knee; and total or partial joint replacement when the time is right. NYU Langone certified athletic trainers provide services to youth, high school, college, university, and professional teams. They also offer services to performing arts groups in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens, Long Island, and Westchester County. Among the services our athletic trainers provide are the following: sports injury management, including providing immediate care when an injury occurs and continuing care throughout recovery design and implementation of injury prevention programs creation and supervision of rehabilitation programs that allow athletes to safely return to their sport coverage of sports events, competitions, and practices, providing first aid and emergency care of acute injuries, such as sprains, fractures, and concussions management of concussion, including injury assessment, monitoring athlete recovery progress, and return to sport following concussion protocols sports performance enhancement through programs that target conditioning, strength training, and corrective exercises health and wellness education covering subjects including topics such as hydration, injury prevention, nutrition, and rest and recovery collaboration with healthcare professionals to ensure comprehensive care for athletes Athletic trainers and physical therapists with our , provide numerous outreach, educational, research, and clinical services to the performing arts community through our . We treat performers at their theater or studio and provide early interventions for orthopedic injuries. We offer the performers we care for priority referrals into NYU Langone’s extensive medical network for further evaluation and care when necessary. View our ever-expanding list of dance clients and meet our team of athletic trainers Community Outreach & Education NYU Langone athletic trainers also provide education to athletes, students, parents, coaches, teachers, school nurses and the community about a variety of health-related topics that affect student athletes, including the following: cardiac conditions in sports concussion education emergency action plans heat stroke, heat exhaustion, frost bite and hypothermia musculoskeletal injuries To learn more about the full array of services we provide, contact Matt Manu, program manager, at 646-825-0472 Our Athletic Trainers Mr. Manu is a certified athletic trainer with experience in secondary school and professional settings. He holds a master’s of public administration from LIU Post and a bachelor of science in athletic training from Hofstra University. In his role as Program Manager, he oversees the day-to-day operations of the Athletic Training Program and outreach for Sports Health and the Mr. Jones earned his degree from Stony Brook University and is certified as both an athletic trainer and strength and conditioning specialist. He has experience with various high school programs and at the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division III level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of sports injuries, and educates coaches, parents, and athletes about sports injuries and injury prevention. Mr. Muse is a certified athletic trainer with a degree from the University of New Hampshire. Before joining NYU Langone, he worked as a head athletic trainer at the secondary school level. In his role as an athletic trainer, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation of sports injuries, and educates coaches, parents, and athletes about sports injuries and injury prevention. David Dorismond, MS, ATC Mr. Dorismond graduated from Stony Brook University with a bachelor’s degree and from Western Kentucky University with a master’s degree in recreation and sports administration. He is a certified athletic trainer. He had worked at both high school and collegiate levels, supporting athletes in injury prevention, first aid, emergency care, rehabilitation, concussion management, and health education. In his role, he provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. EleniGeorgiadis, ATC Ms. Georgiadis earned her bachelor’s degree in athletic training from Hofstra University and is a certified athletic trainer. Before joining NYU Langone, she worked as head athletic trainer at Oyster Bay High School and has experience at both the secondary school and collegiate levels, as well as in physician clinics. In her role, she specializes in injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. JadaTyson, ATC Ms. Tyson graduated from Stony Brook University with a bachelor’s degree and is a certified athletic trainer. Before joining NYU Langone Health, she served as head athletic trainer at the secondary school level and worked as a physician extender at an orthopedic clinic. She has experience working with collegiate athletes at various tournaments and is proficient in fitting custom orthopedic durable medical equipment such as knee braces and orthotics. In her role, she provides injury prevention, acute care, and rehabilitation. Sports Health Partners experts offer education programs, sports training and performance services, and medical support through partnerships with organizations and events throughout New York City and beyond. Bike New York As the official healthcare partner of , we work to ensure the health and safety of their members and riders who participate in the annual TD Five Boro Bike Tour and other events such as the Discover Hudson Valley Ride and Twin Lights Ride. We provide education opportunities and expertise through seminars, workshops, and programs on topics such as group training, youth cycling, proper helmet fit, and injury prevention. Brooklyn Italians Soccer Club We are proud to be official team doctors as well as official medical services provider to the storied . In addition to providing medical coverage for the league during all matches, our certified athletic trainers and doctors offer the team educational content as well as injury prevention advice and general sports health guidance. Life Time Through our partnership with , the sports health team collaborates on health and wellness initiatives and programs, and work with Life Time members to meet their fitness and performance goals. We are also proud to be the official healthcare partner of one of Life Time’s flagship events, the New York City Triathlon , helping athletes plan and prepare for race day. We offer training, recovery, and injury prevention tips, as well as performance services to help athletes achieve their personal best. Our specialists provide medical services and support during this iconic race. USA Football Together with , we work to enhance the health, safety, and wellbeing of young athletes as part of our Team Health initiative. Our experts provide guidance and recommendations for youth football leagues, coaches, and parents with the goal of creating the safest possible environment for players to build their skills while fueling their passion for the game. USA Nordic As an official medical services provider of , our Sports Health experts ensure the safety and wellbeing of the U.S. National and U.S. Junior National teams for ski jumping and Nordic combined. Our clinical team provides preseason physicals, preventive care, and injury care, and our offers performance testing and nutrition education. Our sports health team also partners with USA Nordic on community and educational events to encourage involvement and knowledge of Nordic skiing. Photo: USA Nordic Sport Sports Rehabilitation Services NYU Langone’s sports rehabilitation team, part of , is renowned for their skill and expertise in helping athletes and active people of all ages return to their chosen sport or activity after a musculoskeletal injury, surgery, or other procedure. For every person we see, our physiatrists—doctors who specialize in physical medicine and rehabilitation—collaborate with our psychologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, or certified hand therapists, to create a treatment plan that helps you recover strength, agility, and overall fitness, and prevent future injury. We also provide pre-surgery treatment plans designed to make recovery after surgery easier and faster. Our experts create a rehabilitation plan that accommodates your specific sport and needs. Our experts provide care to children and adolescents through the . We provide care to dancers and dance companies through our Our physiatrists use the most sophisticated diagnostic tools, including musculoskeletal ultrasound, nerve condition studies, and electromyogram. These tests help doctors discover the source and extent of your injury or condition, measure the electrical activity in a nerve, and test how the nerves and muscles work together. In addition to working with our rehabilitation team, your treatment plan may include image-guided injections, acupuncture, bracing, and medications to reduce pain and inflammation or speed healing. We also provide guidance about how to manage changes to your training regimen caused by injury, surgery, or pain, and offer guidance about how to avoid future injury. Experts at our provide world-class conditioning and strength-training expertise to help you return safely to your sport at peak physical and mental readiness. Our team offers if you prefer not to travel or would rather receive care in the comfort of your own home or another location that is most convenient for you. Sports Injuries We Treat Our team provides rehabilitation services for a complete range of musculoskeletal injuries and conditions. Below are some of the most common we treat. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks Rusk Rehabilitation among the top 5 programs in the nation for rehabilitation. Head, Neck, and Spine Sports Injuries compression fractures nerve impingement radiculopathy Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist, and Hand Sports Injuries Hip, Knee, Ankle, and Foot Sports Injuries , posterior cruciate ligament (PCL), and medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries foot and ankle sprains iliotibial band syndrome knee dislocations and patellar tendinitis, also called jumper’s knee runner’s knee Our team also provides rehabilitation services for sports injuries and conditions of the hips, shins, feet, and ankles, including of the shoulder, elbow, knee, and hip. In addition, we provide rehabilitation services for illness or injury that results from overtraining or overreaching, which is a period of increased training. We also provide care for people with osteoarthritis of the , elbow, wrist, hand or ; stress fracture or stress reaction, which is an injury to the bone that occurs prior to a stress fracture; and tendinopathy in the heel, knee, shoulder, ankle, elbow, wrist, or hand. Additional Resources for Sports Rehabilitation NYU Langone’s Sports Health team regularly presents lectures and workshops that highlight ways for athletes to recover from and avoid injuries. Learn more about our Sports Health events Our Sports Rehabilitation Experts NYU Langone physiatrists, sports physical therapists sports occupational therapists , provide gold-standard care to athletes, dancers, and all active people. Julia L. Iafrate, DO Sports Medicine, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Maria Janakos, MD Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Sports Medicine Charles Kim, MD Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Pain Management Alex Moroz, MD, MHPE Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Orthopedic Rehabilitation, Sports Medicine Salvador E. Portugal, MBA, D.O. Renat R. Sukhov, MD Pediatric Rehabilitation Sports Pulmonology Services Healthy, strong lungs are essential for peak performance in all sports and activities, from basketball and soccer to hiking and cross-country skiing. Pulmonologists and cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialists on NYU Langone’s team specialize in caring for the lungs of athletes and other active people. We treat the full range of respiratory conditions, all while focusing on your fitness as well as your overall health. In U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone is tied for No. 1 in the nation for pulmonology and lung surgery. Screening and Diagnostic Tests Pulmonologists at NYU Langone use a battery of sophisticated screening and diagnostic tools and tests, including the following: chest X-ray CT scan echocardiography, to screen for pulmonary hypertension, the term for high blood pressure in the vessels leading from the heart to the lungs fractional exhaled nitric oxide testing, which doctors use to detect and measure inflammation in your airways lung diffusing capacity testing, which measures how well your lungs exchange gases oxygen titration, which measures your oxygen needs at rest and during exercise plethysmography, a test that measures total lung capacity and that may be used to detect blood clots in the arms or legs lung ultrasound, a scan to find fluid in or around the lungs or a collapsed lung six-minute walk testing, which measures aerobic capacity and endurance spirometry, which measures how much and how quickly you move air out of your lungs pre and post spirometry, which is spirometry done before and after you have been given an inhaled medication screening for sleep-related breathing disorders, including cardiopulmonary stress test, to monitor pulmonary health and fitness in athletes and to gauge training improvements Our pulmonary medicine specialists diagnose and treat a full range of acute and chronic respiratory symptoms and conditions in athletes and other active people, including the following: chest injuries, such as lung bruise and rib fractures coughing or shortness of breath that occurs during exercise exercise-induced bronchospasm, also called exercise-induced asthma, a condition in which the airways tighten and make breathing difficult during or after exercise high-altitude pulmonary edema, a condition that causes excess fluid in the lungs in some athletes when they ascend to altitudes higher than 6,000 feet (1,800 meters) interstitial lung diseases, including and pulmonary lower respiratory infections, such as bronchitis and pneumonia We also offer treatment and training guidance for people living with chronic lung conditions who wish to become more active or participate in sports. Advanced Treatments Our team provides the most advanced treatment options available for your specific lung condition. These may include lifestyle recommendations, over-the-counter or prescription medicines, medical therapies such as airway clearance or oxygen therapy, or mechanical therapies, such as the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device. During or after the treatment of your lung condition, we may recommend you receive pulmonary rehabilitation , offered through , from a sports health cardiopulmonary rehabilitation doctor. These experts help you regain full pulmonary function and offer guidance about how to manage changes to your training routine while you recover. When you are full recovered, exercise physiologists at our can help you reach your maximum potential. Our Sports Pulmonology Medicine Experts NYU Langone pulmonologists and cardiopulmonary rehabilitation specialists are expert at working with athletes and other active people. Eric E. Bondarsky, MD Pulmonary Medicine, Critical Care Ezra E. Dweck, MD Bashar M. Mourad, DO Sports Rheumatology Services At NYU Langone, our rheumatologists have expertise in caring for athletes and active people of all ages with arthritis and autoimmune disorders that affect the joints and soft tissues. We offer a combination of nonsurgical approaches—medications and physical therapy to lifestyle modifications—to keep you on the playing field. Our goal for you is optimal health and performance in your chosen sport or activity. Our rheumatology experts offer the most sophisticated treatments available for a wide range of injuries and conditions. Treatment for Athletes with Arthritis Our experts treat all forms of arthritis in athletes, including the following: osteoarthritis of in adults juvenile arthritis in children gout, a type of arthritis in which crystals of a substance called uric acid deposit in the big toe or other joints, causing pain and swelling For these and all conditions we help people manage, we use conservative nonsurgical treatments. These may include anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive, immunomodulatory, or pain relief medications, as well as therapeutic injections of corticosteroids, hyaluronic acid, or other natural substances that can reduce inflammation or speed healing. Description: U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the country for rheumatology. We may also recommend lifestyle-focused therapies. Depending on factors including your sport and goals, these may include strength-training or cross-training; sports-focused physical therapy and rehabilitation, offered through ; acupuncture; or guidance about nutrition and weight management. Throughout the treatment process, we collaborate with specialists on the Sports Health team to give you sport-specific training advice and recommendations to help you maintain fitness. For some people with arthritis, surgery may be recommended. In this case, we refer you to a member of NYU Langone’s sports orthopedic surgery team Treatment for Athletes with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Our rheumatologists provide medical treatment as well as athletic training advice for with systemic lupus erythematosus and other connective tissue diseases. Our team helps you navigate the complexities of these disorders while remaining fit and active. In addition, we have special expertise in caring for pregnant athletes with lupus. Our Sports Rheumatology Team Brian D. Golden, MD Philip J. Kahn, MD Pediatric Rheumatology Jonathan Samuels, MD Our experts are at the forefront of the latest research and innovation in sports medicine and exercise science. They’re also athletes and coaches themselves, with a deep understanding of their patients’ drive to stay active and achieve their personal best. “My medical team accommodated my insane schedule and bent over backward to make sure that I was able to achieve my goals as an athlete.” —Miye D’Oench, Right Wing, Metropolitan Riveters,