woman in her 40s presented with fecal incontinence subsequent to a fourth-degree laceration during vaginal delivery in her home country. The patient had seen several providers without relief prior to travel to the United States, where she was referred for urogynecology consultation with Christina M. Escobar, MD . Examination revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum, with no rectal tone. Traumatic cloaca is a rare presentation, as precipitating injury is typically repaired during childbirth. The condition creates a single cavity involving the rectum and vagina, severely disrupting patient quality of life. “Because it’s so rare, providers often don’t diagnose traumatic cloaca, or may be unsure where to refer patients, leaving women suffering from fecal incontinence,” Dr. Escobar says. “This patient had gone from consults with gynecologists to a colorectal surgeon to urogynecology, but we brought all three specialties together to restore her anatomy.” To plan the reconstruction, Dr. Escobar collaborated with NYU Langone Health colleagues , a specialist in female pelvic medicine and reconstruction, and Marsha A. Harris, MD , a colorectal surgeon with pelvic floor expertise. Dr. Harris takes a special interest in women’s health, frequently partnering with colleagues in gynecology and urology to repair pelvic floor dysfunction. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” Christina Escobar, MD The approach involved dissection of the rectovaginal septum and sphincteroplasty; multidisciplinary collaboration was critical to identifying, isolating, and repositioning the structures. “There is a major advantage to having a urologist, gynecologist, and colorectal surgeon side-by-side working on these adjacent areas,” says Dr. Rosenblum. Following overnight observation, the patient was released with a care plan in place. “This is a patient who was told her problem was not fixable, who lived with fecal incontinence for 14 years,” says Dr. Escobar. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” A Cloaca-Like Deformity Secondary to Obstetric Trauma A clear demarcation of vaginal and anal mucosa. A preoperative physical exam revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum measuring 6 centimeters in length and representing a cloaca. Endoanal Ultrasound Reveals Full Extent of Clinical Findings Endoanal ultrasound demonstrates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. An endoanal ultrasound, the preferred imaging for surgical planning, confirmed findings of the patient’s digital rectal exam, revealing significant separation of the external from the internal anal sphincter. Re-Approximation of the Rectal-Vaginal Structures Surgeon’s view of the reconstruction to re-approximate the internal (A) and external (B) anal sphincter. For the reconstruction, an initial horizontal incision was made and the rectum and vagina separated. The internal and external anal sphincter were identified and dissected, then re-approximated. A Successful Reconstruction Surgeon’s view of the completed cloacal repair, with drain in place. Once the internal and external sphincter were repaired, the previously mobilized rectal mucosa was advanced under the reconstructed sphincter and attached to the perianal skin. The tissues were closed and a drain was placed. Christina M. Escobar, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and associate director of Simulation in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Experts at the reported performing nearly 40 percent more oocyte retrievals in 2021 compared to the preceeding year. While somewhat surprising given the pandemic, the trend is in accordance with both experts and models pointing to the rapidly growing interest in egg freezing and in vitro fertilization (IVF). “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate,” says Frederick L. Licciardi, MD , director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the fertility center. Dr. Licciardi and colleagues recently reported in Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology that the pandemic did not influence outcomes Considering the growing demand in assisted reproductive technology (ACT), infertility specialist Jennifer K. Blakemore, MD , says she and colleagues are focused on making treatments less stressful and more accessible. “Infertility doesn’t care who you are, where you are, and what kind of funds you have, it affects everybody,” says Dr. Blakemore. “The more ways we can provide patients with information on the expanding options and opportunities related to reproductive health, the better.” “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate.” The Need to Address Stress Stress as a side effect of assisted reproduction is an important part of discussions with patients. “I tell patients ahead of time, ‘This is going to be stressful for you, it’s normal.’” says Dr. Licciardi. While high levels of stress are anticipated in patients undergoing IVF, the center’s previous research revealed egg freezing to be at least as stressful as IVF . Younger and younger women are seeking the service for diverse, stress-provoking reasons, listing concerns related to age, health status, career stage, and a lack of immediate prospects for a partner. To further examine stress in egg freezing, Dr. Licciardi is leading an ongoing study involving surveys and interviews with patients before and after oocyte cryopreservation. “I’m hoping these studies will help providers who are offering egg freezing understand the complex decisions and intense stress their patients are facing,” Dr. Licciardi says. “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” Dr. Blakemore recently authored a review in Fertility and Sterility highlighting the need for individualized and comprehensive counseling for those seeking oocyte cryopreservation. “Patients need to be cautioned and counseled that we don’t have perfect statistics yet on things like how frozen eggs work 10 to 20 years from now and all of those different aspects,” Dr. Blakemore says. However, retrospective studies of the center’s oocyte thaw outcomes are beginning to address these unknowns, suggesting egg freezing may be superior to IVF for delayed childbearing. Expanding Access to Specialized Fertility Care Despite exciting advances in ART, disparities exist in accessing and utilizing these specialized services. NYU Langone investigators have recently reported on sociodemographic differences in the use of fertility services among women with cancer as well as the utilization of planned oocyte cryopreservation among Black obstetrician gynecologists One new study from fellow Ashley Wiltshire, MD, used a unique case of primary ovarian insufficiency in a 36-year-old Black woman to shed light on how systemic barriers hinder some patient’s abilities to reach their fertility goals. The authors outline recommendations including full spectrum fertility coverage as well as noting the importance of providers committing to address inequities in fertility treatment. “We can do a better job of educating ourselves—internal medicine providers, OBGYN providers, primary care physicians and beyond—with more information on fertility statistics and services in order to reach more people and provide better care,” says Dr. Blakemore. Frederick L. Licciardi, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the NYU Langone Fertility Clinic. His research interests focus on in vitro fertilization, oocyte donation, and embryo development. Jennifer L. Blakemore, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of resident research in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Her research focuses on endometriosis and infertility in women. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA Methotrexate, the first-line medication for rheumatoid arthritis, works as a monotherapy in only about 50 percent of patients , necessitating a trial and error approach to find the right combination of medications for each patient. If methotrexate fails to control a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis after three months, as a general rule of thumb, clinicians try a different strategy. “That’s a critical amount of time during which someone’s disease is potentially progressing and becoming more destructive,” says rheumatologist Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Supported in part by NYU Langone Health’s Clinical and Translational Science Awards Scholars Program , Dr. Blank is exploring whether differences in the gut microbiome may help predict the responsiveness of a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis to methotrexate. In addition, she’s assessing whether strategic alterations to the microbiome might enhance the medication’s effect. A Consequential Microbial Shift Prior research led by rheumatologist , director of NYU Langone’s Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity, found that certain gut microbial DNA signatures predict methotrexate responsiveness . From those results, Dr. Blank and Dr. Scher hypothesized that some gut microbes may be metabolizing methotrexate into metabolites and preventing the drug from reaching a patient’s joints. “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Dr. Blank says. Another question is whether the microbiome could be pushed into a more immunoregulatory state, one that reduces the “leaky gut” phenomenon that can spur inflammation. Based on data from animal studies of rheumatoid arthritis and from clinical trials in inflammatory bowel disease and pediatric obesity, Dr. Blank narrowed her focus to microbes that produce short-chain fatty acids as their fermentation products. These bacterial products have been shown to ameliorate inflammatory arthritis in mice by reducing inflammation at the joint and decreasing inflammatory T helper 17 cells while increasing systemic regulatory T cells. One short-chain fatty acid, butyrate, seems to have the most significant effect. In humans, some evidence suggests that butyrate supplements yield a positive feedback loop that shifts the gut toward more butyrate-producing microbes A New Focus on Butyrate Combined, the findings point toward the possibility that supplementing methotrexate with butyrate in patients with new-onset rheumatoid arthritis might shift the gut microbiome toward a state of reduced inflammation and even decreased methotrexate metabolism, helping to explain the microbial signature predicting methotrexate responsiveness. In a pilot trial involving 16 patients newly diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and receiving methotrexate, Dr. Blank and colleagues are testing just this question. As part of the study, the researchers aim to determine whether butyrate supplementation correlates with an increase in T regulatory cells and a decrease in inflammatory T cells, like the shift seen in mice. In addition, the research could reveal the role of butyrate producers in the methotrexate response signature. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically, it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” So far, gut microbiome analyses from eight of the patients have revealed lower microbial alpha diversity than healthy controls at baseline. After four months of butyrate supplementation, however, their microbiomes are showing significant shifts toward higher alpha diversity, compared with historical controls of rheumatoid arthritis patients given methotrexate alone. In particular, Dr. Blank and colleagues found a relative increase in the bacterial taxa known to produce short-chain fatty acids like butyrate. “I think what’s happening is that you’re creating more diversity of microbes, which then out-compete some of these other microbes that are metabolizing the methotrexate into inactive products,” she says. “You’re essentially pushing the pathogenic microbes out of the way.” Testing a Potential Adjunct Therapy Supported by a grant from the Arthritis Foundation , Dr. Blank is expanding her focus with a small pilot study on patients whose first-line methotrexate therapy is starting to fail. Before switching the patients to a new regimen, she’s assessing whether butyrate supplementation and a corresponding shift in the gut microbiome might prolong methotrexate’s efficacy. If her pilot trials yield promising results, Dr. Blank hopes to partner with other academic centers on a placebo-controlled clinical trial to assess the benefits of supplementing methotrexate with butyrate. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically,” she says, “it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD, is an instructor of medicine who specializes in rheumatology. Her research focuses on the role of the gut microbiome in pathogenesis and amelioration of inflammatory arthritis, particularly, rheumatoid arthritis. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting This June, our researchers and physicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is Partnering with Patients: The Cornerstone of Cancer Care and Research Friday, June 2 Clinical Science Symposium New Partners for EGFR-Mutant Lung Cancer : 1–2:30 pm Saturday, June 3 ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin Alfa Monotherapy in Patients with Advanced Mucosal and Cutaneous Melanoma Abstract: TPS9592 Poster Board: 355a : 1:15 pm The Validity of a Machine Learning Algorithm in Predicting Response to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Melanoma Faisal Fa’ak, MBBS 9523 286 Ultrasensitive Detection and Monitoring of Central Nervous System Tumors from Plasma Using Personalized Whole-Genome CTDNA Profiling 2064 421 Long-Term Outcomes of Pembrolizumab (Pembro) in Combination with Gemcitabine (Gem) and Concurrent Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy (RT) as Bladder Sparing Treatment for Muscle-Invasive Urothelial Cancer of the Bladder (MIUC): A Multicenter Phase 2 Trial Minas P. Economides, MD 4509 3 pm Sunday, June 4 Large Scale Evaluation of Pulmonary Nodule Workup: A Real-World Study of Over 150,000 Patients in New York State Vamsidhar Velcheti, MD, FACP, FCCP 8559 186 : 8 am Monday, June 5 Education Session Defining the Patients at Risk for Developing Pancreatic Cancer Diane M. Simeone, MD : 9:45 am Where Do We Stand with Immunotherapy for Small-Cell Lung Cancer? Sally C. M. Lau, MD, MPH : 3 pm Oral Abstract Presentation Preliminary Results From the Female Asian Nonsmoker Screening Study (FANSS) Elaine Shum, MD 8510 : 11:30 am The Interventional Radiologist’s Perspective Ryan M. Hickey, MD 4:30 pm SpotCheck: A Skin Cancer Diagnostic Clinical Trial Comparing Dermoscopy-Enhanced Telemedicine to In-Person Evaluation Jenne P. Ingrassia 1604 198 1:15 pm Tuesday, June 6 Disparities in Outcomes Among Hospitalized Unhoused Patients with Cancer in the US Kanan Shah, MD 6502 8 am Publication Only Abstract Real-World Clinical Outcomes in a U.S. Asian Population with Stage IV NSCLC Treated with Osimertinib (Osi) Stratified by EGFR Subtype Abstract : e21128 NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts presented their research at the 2024 American Urological Association (AUA) annual meeting in San Antonio, Texas. See below for notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. Panel Discussion: 49-Year-Old Woman with Symptomatic Large-Volume Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma NYU Presenter: 8:00–8:25AM Implementation Determinants: What Gets in the Way of Evidence-Based Practice? Urologic Oncology Research Symposium Danil V. Makarov, MD 1:18–1:27PM Optimizing Dissemination of Urological Research NYU Presenters: 4:08–4:18PM Update in Management of Upper-Tract Urothelial Carcinoma American College of Osteopathic Surgeons (ACOS) 9:30–10:30AM Barriers to Peri- and Post-Menopausal Women Using Vaginal Estrogen Therapy Include Cost and Fear of Side Effects Poster and Podium, PD24 Sabrina Stair, MD 11:20–11:30AM Response to Primary Chemoablation with UGN-102 in Patients with New or Recurrent LG IR NMIBC: Post Hoc Analysis of the ATLAS Trial Poster and Podium, PD30-09 2:20–2:30PM Unmet Sexual Health Needs and Preferences of Female Partners of Patients with Prostate Cancer Poster and Podium, PD28-12 2:50–3:00PM Five-Year Oncologic Outcomes Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) PD39: Prostate Cancer: Localized: Ablative Therapy II Eli Rapoport, BS NYU Moderator: 7:40–7:50AM Panel Discussion: Tricks and Tips of Penile Prosthesis Surgery 9:55–10:25AM Genetic Testing in Prostate Cancer: The Role of the Urologists International Prostate Forum 11:10–11:25AM Crossfire: Controversies in Urology: MUS vs. Bulking in a 55-Year-Old Woman SUI 2:10–2:40PM Upper Urinary Tract: Buccal Graft Update After 10-Year Experience Society of Urologic Robotic Surgeons (SURS) Brian Chao, MD Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation In March 2017, urologic oncologists , initiated a prospective outcomes registry to capture both oncological and functional outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PGCA). Now, these researchers report encouraging oncological outcomes in the largest and most rigorous five-year follow-up study for primary PGCA conducted to date. Among 298 patients with localized, intermediate-risk disease who elected primary PGCA, the five-year freedom-from-failure rate was 91 percent. In addition, rates of freedom-from-recurrence of in-field, out-of-field, and overall clinically significant disease were 79 percent, 74 percent, and 58 percent, respectively. [Read a case report from the study here “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “We now counsel men with intermediate-risk disease who are considering cryoablation that, at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole gland treatments,” says Dr. Lepor. “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” Results from the study will be presented at the upcoming 2024 Annual Scientific Meeting of the American Urological Association (AUA). Building Upon Early Success Previously published data revealed high rates of functional recovery following primary PGCA. The researchers published early functional outcomes in The Canadian Journal of Urology in June 2022 and in in January 2023. Notably, they observed no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries, an improvement in lower urinary symptoms, and less adverse impact on sexual function following primary PGCA when compared to whole-gland treatments. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” “Sexual function and incontinence outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following whole gland interventions,” says Dr. Wysock. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” With respect to early oncological outcomes, the researchers have demonstrated primary PGCA to reliably ablate the index lesion and support a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years. Need for Active Surveillance According to the researchers, the findings emphasize the importance of active surveillance following focal therapy. They explain that many of the clinically significant recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, making them amenable to active surveillance based on the ProtecT trial Regarding the surveillance protocol, Dr. Lepor recommends PSA testing, multiparametric MRI, and a surveillance prostate biopsy at specified intervals following primary PGCA. He currently performs for-cause biopsies based on digital rectal exam, PSA kinetics, and suspicious MRI lesions. “A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field clinically significant recurrences requiring intervention,” Dr. Lepor explains. “Most cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage radiation therapy.” Advancing Focal Therapy To date, 459 men who underwent primary PGCA have enrolled in the prospective cohort study, Dr. Lepor says, and these five-year data strengthen support for the use of focal therapies in men with high-volume, low-risk and intermediate-risk clinically localized prostate cancer. “In 2012, I was confident focal therapies would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate-risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority,” Dr. Lepor says. Now, after a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following focal therapies, and specifically cryotherapy , Dr. Lepor believes PGCA should be widely available to men with localized, intermediate-risk disease. While NYU Langone offers a range of focal therapy techniques, including high-intensity focused ultrasound, radiofrequency ablation, and electroporation, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies are performed using cryotherapy due to its superior oncological outcomes. “Cryotherapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes,” Dr. Lepor says. Herbert Lepor, MD, is the Martin Spatz Chair of the Department of Urology, chief of urology, and director of the Smilow Comprehensive Prostate Cancer Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in urologic oncology, with expertise in radical prostatectomy and focal ablation. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ A 57-year-old male presented with a history of treated thyroid cancer and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). His international prostate symptom score (IPSS) was 25 and an upper tract ultrasound revealed a 160-gram prostate. Some improvement in urinary symptoms was seen with tamsulosin and finasteride. However, the impact of treatment on sexual health was significant. Intermittent self-catheterization was also required for high postvoid residual volume, and the patient did not wish to continue this. An office cystoscopy confirmed bladder outlet obstruction secondary to benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), a common cause of LUTS, and the patient was counseled on surgical options. After considering GreenLight, transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), anatomical endoscopic enucleation of the prostate (AEEP) with Holmium, Aquablation, and simple robotic prostatectomy, the patient elected for the Aquablation procedure. The following Case of the Month illustrates how Aquablation safely and effectively treats a very large prostate size normally managed by simple prostatectomy or AEEP, but with lower rates of urinary incontinence and ejaculatory dysfunction. The case also exemplifies why I consider Aquablation to be the Swiss Army knife of surgical therapies for BPH. Aquablation received de novo clearance from the FDA for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The technique is appropriate for all prostate sizes, including very large prostates >150 mL, and is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction. The technique significantly improves IPSS and surpasses all other BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. In the case presented here, the patient reported an IPSS of 25 before treatment. After Aquablation, his IPSS dropped to 4, and he reported preserved erectile and ejaculatory function; his only medication was finasteride. When the patient first presented to our care, he experienced nocturia three times per night, urinary frequency every two hours, urinary urgency, and a weak urinary stream. He achieved significant improvement in LUTS on tamsulosin but eventually went into acute urinary retention requiring Foley catheterization. At that time, an upper tract ultrasound confirmed the presence of two normal renal moieties, a normal-appearing bladder, and an enlarged prostate with a large median lobe. He then increased tamsulosin to 0.8 mg daily, started finasteride, and subsequently voided spontaneously. However, high postvoid residuals required self-catheterization four times daily. An office cystoscopy was completed, confirming a normal anterior urethra and trilobar prostate hyperplasia. Urodynamic study was not performed due to his cystoscopic findings, prostate size, and lack of relevant comorbidities. Digital rectal exam demonstrated a large, smooth prostate. The PSA was 2.1 ng/dL. The patient elected for Aquablation after being counseled on his surgical options. He did not wish to continue intermittent catheterization, did not tolerate the retrograde ejaculation of tamsulosin, and wished to preserve his erectile and ejaculatory function. Aquablation: The Clinical Trials Treatments of bladder outlet obstruction range from medical therapy to minimally invasive procedures to open surgery. The goal of surgical therapy is simply to reduce outlet resistance. However, techniques must be effective in symptom score reduction and durability and be associated with minimal peri- and postoperative complications. Other goals should be a short learning curve and minimal sexual dysfunction. Among the newer, novel resective techniques is Aquablation therapy, delivered by the PROCEPT BioRobotics’ AquaBeam Robotic System. It has attracted attention as a minimally invasive technique that is as effective and safe as other resective treatments, but with minimal to no negative impact on erectile or ejaculatory function. The Aquablation procedure. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. Aquablation employs a robotically controlled, room-temperature waterjet to remove obstructing prostate tissue . The AquaBeam Robotic System received de novo clearance from the FDA in December 2017. It is indicated for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The safety and efficacy of Aquablation therapy with the AquaBeam Robotic System have been rigorously investigated. The WATER study was a randomized, pivotal trial comparing Aquablation therapy against TURP. It showed that Aquablation provided the same durable outcomes and lower surgical retreatment rate as TURP at five years for prostate sizes 30 to 80 mL while maintaining a superior ejaculatory profile. The WATER study enrolled 181 patients ages 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH across 17 sites in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand, demonstrating superiority and noninferior primary efficacy results compared to TURP . Other studies have demonstrated noninferiority and even superiority to TURP The WATER II study enrolled 101 male patients with prostates 80 to 150 mL between the ages of 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH at 16 sites in the United States and Canada. The WATER II study demonstrated significant improvement in both symptom scores and urinary flow rates, with similar length of stay reported in the WATER study A meta-analysis of four clinical trials (WATER, WATER II, OPEN WATER, and FRANCAIS WATER) with 425 patients (volumes 20 to 150 mL) and a one-year follow-up showed an average IPSS improvement of 16 points, 20.5 mL/second urinary peak flow rates, 3.3-point improvement in quality of life, 0 percent erectile dysfunction, 0.5 percent incontinence, and only a 10.8 percent incidence of ejaculatory dysfunction Based on the above data and other sources, the American Urologic Association included Aquablation therapy in its 2019 Practice Guidelines for the “Surgical Management of Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Attributed to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia” . Today, Aquablation therapy provides a minimally invasive option in a field already populated by Optilume, iTIND, UroLift, Rezum, GreenLight, TURPs, AEEPs, and simple robotic or open simple prostatectomies. It has a short learning curve of about 10 to 20 cases and a high level of predictability and reproducibility Aquablation: The Procedure The patient’s Aquablation procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia . An SIUI Apogee 2300 biplane transrectal ultrasound was first inserted for optimal prostate imaging. The 24 Fr handpiece was then inserted transurethrally into the patient’s bladder and then mounted on the bed-mounted robotic articulating arm. Using real-time prostate visualization and PROCEPT planning software on the CPU, the waterjet angles and a surgical contour were planned and the waterjet robotic ablation begun. As the waterjet moved from median lobe to prostate apex, adenomatous tissue was removed with a pendulum-like motion. Once the jet reached the ejaculation safety zone, its pattern was converted to a “butterfly-cut” mode to avoid injury to the ejaculatory ducts on the prostatic urethral floor. A second full pass was performed, and then the handpiece was removed. A 26-Fr resectoscope was inserted, clot evacuation was done, and focal bladder neck cauterization was performed. Minor resection of treated prostate tissue was resected and sent for pathology. Finally, a 24 Fr 3-way Coude catheter was inserted and the patient was observed on traction. Postoperative continuous bladder irrigation (CBI) was performed until the following day. Post-procedure prostate cavity and catheter insertion. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. The patient was discharged on postoperative day one and passed a trial of void on postoperative day two with a postvoid residual of 120 mL. At a six-week follow-up, the patient had no complaints. He had a negative urine culture and an IPSS of 4. He had preserved erectile and ejaculatory function, and his only medication was finasteride. One of the three distinctive and attractive features of Aquablation is its versatility. Some procedures are only appropriate for certain types of prostate sizes or configurations. Aquablation has real potential to dominate the BPH minimally invasive therapy market because of its ability to be the Swiss Army knife of BPH surgical therapies. It can safely and effectively treat all prostate sizes (20 grams and up) and can also treat various forms of bladder outlet obstruction, including high-riding bladder necks, prostates with median lobes of any size, lateral lobe compression, very long prostates, prostate synechiae, and overhanging anterior prostate tissue. It is also safe and effective in patients with prior treatments, such as UroLift, Rezum, brachytherapy, and external beam radiation. Another enticing feature is Aquablation’s ability to treat all prostate sizes. Until now, surgical management options for men with very large prostates (>150 mL) were limited to simple prostatectomy (open, laparoscopic, or robotic) and AEEP (Holmium and thulium). These surgical options are associated with increased surgical risks, such as increased operative time, risk of bleeding, transfusions, ejaculatory dysfunction, and a prolonged indwelling catheter time . The proliferation of AEEP has been limited due to its steep learning curve and a relative paucity of training opportunities. After earlier reports of bleeding in the WATER and WATER II trials, PROCEPT developed an optimal hemostasis technique of focal bladder neck cauterization that included removal of frondular ablated tissue at the bladder neck as well as any targeted focal cautery of any obvious arterial bleeding. In April 2021, a study of more than 2,000 patients undergoing this technique yielded a transfusion rate of 0.8 percent for treated prostates with volumes of 20 to 363 mL . Further meta-analysis of the WATER, WATER II, and OPEN WATER trials report a composite transfusion rate of 0.1 percent The other complication deserving of discussion is ejaculatory dysfunction. Aquablation preserves anterograde ejaculation rates in over 90 percent of men, better than any other resective BPH procedure. It is important to note that Aquablation is the only procedure where de novo ejaculatory dysfunction remained low despite larger prostate sizes (80 cc to 150 cc) . This potential complication is getting more discussion time preoperatively, now that men and their partners are more educated about which treatments are associated with ejaculatory dysfunction and which ones are not. The days of treating urologists downplaying the importance of male orgasmic function in their patients are numbered as more men are understanding that retrograde ejaculation and anejaculation are often inferior in sensation to anterograde ejaculation. Conclusion Physicians counseling patients with obstructive BPH should be aware of Aquablation therapy as it is able to comparatively improve IPSS scores, has superior durability to TURP, has minimal complications, and is superior to other resective BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. Aquablation is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction and is appropriate for any prostate size. The learning curve is short, and operative times are consistent and reproducible. 1. Zorn et al. (2022). Aquablation treatment for benign prostate hyperplasia: Current standardized procedure. Journal of Endourology. 2. Oumedjbeur et al. (2023). Aquablation versus TURP: 5-year outcomes of the WATER randomized clinical trial for prostate volumes 50-80 mL. Canadian Journal of Urology. PubMed 3. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation of transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. BJU International. 4. Gilling et al. (2020). Three-year outcomes after Aquablation therapy compared to TURP: Results from a blinded randomized trial. Canadian Journal of Urology 5. Bhojani et al. (2023). Aquablation therapy in large prostates (80-150 mL) for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia: Final WATER II 5-year clinical trial results. Journal of Urology. 6. Elterman et al. (2021). Meta-analysis with individual data of functional outcomes following Aquablation for lower urinary tract symptoms due to BPH in various prostate anatomies. BMJ Surgery, Interventions, & Health Technologies. 7. Dornbier et al. (2020). The new American Urological Association benign prostatic hyperplasia clinical guidelines: 2019 update. Current Urology Reports. 8. El Hajj et al. (2022). Learning curve in aquablation: An international multicenter study. World Journal of Urology. 9. MacRae et al. (2016). How I do it: Aquablation of the prostate using the AQUABEAM system. 10. Nguyen et al. (2020). Operative time comparison of Aquablation, Greenlight PVP, ThuLEP,