Monitor shall be provided with a silence pushbutton to deactivate the alarm horn during an alarm condition. Product • The following manufacturer product lines are acceptable. Match the manufacturer to existing adjacent spaces. o Critical Room Control o TSI Pressura o Setra Flex Execution • Room pressure monitor shall be located outside of room served at entrance door. • Provide a local alarm light, horn and silence switch located within the room served. Horn and light shall be activated if a door is maintained in the open position for a continuous 3 minute time period. Silence switch shall allow the user to silence the horn; however, the light shall remain energized until the door is closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 517 2023 • If project has multiple rooms requiring pressure monitoring, monitoring shall be capable from one monitor. Multiple room monitoring only applies to auxiliary rooms not separate rooms or Operating Rooms/OR support spaces. f. Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensors General • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be 1/10th DIN RTDs Product • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be manufactured by o ACI o BAPI Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Combos by Application: Duct mounted averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of duct area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 518 2023 o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Preheat coil discharge sensors • General o Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Duct mounted non averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 18" or half the width of the duct o A NEMA 3R electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K 2W D 18 Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 519 2023 Liquid insertion type • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Mount sensor in a thermowell with #" #" gap between the end of the sensor and the end of the thermowell. The void between the two shall be filled with thermal grease. • Freezestats General • Low Air Temperature Thermostats for Air (freezestats) shall be sized to provide complete coil coverage as defined below to ensure each coil has one or more dedicated switches and no two coils share a temperature switch. o The coil area must be covered by freezestats leaving 6 inches from each edge of the coil. o The maximum vertical distance between each pass of capillary shall be no more than 8 inches. o Switch actuation shall occur if any 12 inch length of capillary senses a temperature below set point. o Capillary length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. o If capillary is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o If multiple freezestats are provided, each device shall only cover its percentage of coil. For example, if there are two (2) freezestats, each covers . If there are four (4) thermostats, each covers . Product • These thermostats shall be 2 position automatic reset type. Execution • Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. • Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. • Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. • Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Low temperature shutdowns shall be manually reset via operator command from a workstation. • The elements shall be suspended at least 6 to 8 inches downstream of the preheat coils. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 520 2023 • Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Thermowells Immersion temperature measurement • All thermowells shall be type 304 stainless steel • 3/4" NPT external thread, 1/2" NPT internal thread • Lagging extension shall be equal to insulation thickness • Insertion length shall be 1/3 to 3/4 of internal pipe diameter, but not more than 6" • Thermowells shall be rated for maximum system pressure, temperature and fluid velocity. • Internal bore of thermowells shall be sized to exactly fit the diameter of the sensing element to be installed. g. Weather Stations General • For use with cooling tower or economizer control. • Provide detail on ordering instructions to specify desired customized outputs to BAS. Product • Manufacturer: Viasala • Model No.: HMS110 Execution • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. h. Actuators General (by application) • Valve Actuators o All two position actuators shall be provided with open and closed limit switches for remote monitoring at the BMS. o Actuators shall be factory mounted to valve body and factory tested to ensure proper operation. o Actuators shall be provided with manually operated declutchable handwheels for overriding the actuator in both emergency and normal operation. o Actuator shall be provided with an external position indicator. o Tandem mounted actuators are not acceptable. o Actuators, limit switches, manual override handwheels, position indicators, etc., that are located outdoors shall be constructed for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 521 2023 outdoor use. All electrical devices shall be weatherproof and NEMA 4 rated. All exposed valve components (i.e., stem, shaft, gear operators, handwheel, etc.) shall be constructed of non rusting metal or factory coated with rust inhibiting paint. • Damper actuators serving automatic louver dampers o Tandem mounted actuators shall not be provided o Housing shall be NEMA 2 o Manual override shall be provided o Include external direction of rotation switch o Ambient temperature operation shall be 22°F to 122°F o Storage temperature shall be 40°F to 176°F o Actuators shall be UL listed o Two Position  Actuators in two position (open/closed) service shall be 120 VAC electrically actuated spring return type. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. o Modulating  All automatic louvered damper actuators in modulating service shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC electrically actuated spring return type, and shall be fully proportioning, unless otherwise specified. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. Product • Valve Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Bray, limitorque, EIM • Louvered Damper Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Belimo • Control Valve Actuators Preheat coil • Return: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal Position: Open Steam to or water to water heat exchanger • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 522 2023 Chilled water coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed Reheat coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed i. Current Instruments • Current Sensing Switches General • Switches shall have field adjustable sensitivity for detecting AC current levels. • Relay contacts shall be Form C rated for 5A at 120VAC Execution • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. j. Signal Transducers i. Relays Time Delay Relay • General o Time delay trigger and function shall be specified to meet the application requirements. • Product o Manufacturer: Magnecraft o Model: TDR Plug In Terminal (Ice Cube) • General o Relays shall be plug in terminal type with a DPDT configuration o Contact material shall be silver cadmium oxide • Product o Manufacturer: Idec o Model: RH Series NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 523 2023 • Execution o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. Self Enclosed Relay (Relay in Box) ii. Networks a. Network Hardware • Switches General • Quantity of 10 gigabit ports is required • A minimum of 24 ethernet ports is required. For large buildings, 48 ports is preferred. • Switch must include redundant hot swappable power supplies Approved Products • Manufacturer: Juniper o Model:EX 2300 or EX 3400 • Manufacturer: Netgear o Model: Netgear Pro Series • Manufacturer: Blackbox o Model: Gigabit Managed LG8 Series • Manufacturer: Cisco o Model: Catalyst 9500 • Routers General • BACnet router between MS/TP and B/IP (BACnet over IP) as well as a BBMD (BACnet Broadcast Management Device) for transportation of BACnet broadcasts over an IP network with several subnets. • Routers shall comply with the latest version of ASHRAE Standard 135 for communications. • Routers shall be UL864 listed when connected to BACnet MS/TP network segments that contain UL864 listed devices being used in a smoke control application. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 524 2023 • Device shall be capable of routing BACnet packets over Layer 3 IP network and shall support both the router and BBMD networking options. BBMD shall support registration of Foreign Devices. • Devices shall be password protected with additional security settings. iii. Piping & Panels a. Panel Enclosure General • The enclosure shall be made of steel or extruded aluminum with proper bracing for rigid wall or floor mounting. The enclosure shall not be attached to any piece of building equipment. All associated controller equipment shall be mounted in this enclosure such as controllers, power supplies, relays, switches, etc. • Hinged door shall contain a key operated lock. Lock shall be a cam style, in order for all the cores to be accessed via a master key. • Enclosures shall have a removable perforated backplane where all devices, din rail, and Panduit shall be secured and mounted. Product • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. • Accepted panel manufacturers: o Unity o Hoffman o Hammond Execution • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. b. Terminal Block General • All control panels shall be provided with a terminal strip for field wiring Product • Terminal blocks shall be 300 volt rated, medium duty, channel mounted, with numbered marking strips. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 525 2023 c. Labeling General • Provide an engraved nameplate for each enclosure, mounted on the face of the door, indicating the controller tag, device instance, system served and branch circuit number and electrical panel tag from which the enclosure is fed. • The control panel has to be labeled for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to be labeled. All control enclosures/panel have to be labeled with equipment tags that have controllers inside that enclosure. • All labeling of controller devices, controllers, transformers, relays, wire, tags, etc. shall match labeling on approved as built drawings • Each control device (IE. Relays, fuses, etc.) mounted within enclosure shall be marked with a nameplate cross referencing it to the control diagram. • Wiring shall have identification sleeves at each termination at the terminal strip individually identified per control/interlock drawings, with adequate clearance for field wiring. d. Panels General • Enclosures shall be provided with space for future addition of instruments. Fully loaded enclosures shall not be acceptable. Enclosures shall be oversized by . • Separate terminal blocks shall be installed for 120 volt AC wiring and for low level signal wiring within enclosures. Terminal blocks for line voltage wiring shall be separated from low level signal wiring by a barrier partition. • Each enclosure shall be provided with a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door, which shall be used to contain “as built” control diagrams serving the respective system. Plastic sleeve to contain controller directory indicating all input and output points labeled as per “as built” drawings. • Provide a 120 volt, 60 hertz duplex convenience outlet within each enclosure. Convenience outlet shall be provided with dedicated circuit breaker protection 5 Amp maxdisconnect switch and fuse. Execution • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 526 2023 • All wiring shall be contained neatly within plastic panduit. o Low voltage and line voltage wiring shall be routed through separate panduits. • Enclosure shall be provided with all required transformers and a main circuit breakerfused disconnect ON/OFF power switches. Disconnect shall be used to disconnect all power serving the enclosure. • All transformers shall be mounted within an enclosure. Transformers will not be permitted to be installed out of enclosures. • For pressure switch alarms, provide a manual reset pushbutton switch with indicating light mounted on the face of the enclosure door. o Pushbutton shall allow an operator to reset a pressure alarm. The system shall remain off until manually reset via the pushbutton. e. Fused Disconnect Switch (Panel Mount) General • A 20A disconnect switch shall be provided to protect the panel mounted duplex receptacle. • Include indicating light, 10A fuse, and 4x4 box with cover. Execution • Disconnect switch shall be independently fused such that a blown fuse will not interrupt controller power. a. Control Panel All materials used for the control panel must be UL listed and wired up under the standards of the National Electrical Code. The BMS subcontractor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers, power supplies, transformers, relays, terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. See figure CPL 01 for references. If the control panel has an external power source, see Figure CPL 04 as a reference. The Control Panel must consider the following points: • Circuit Breaker (CB) The control panel must have a main circuit breaker (CB) whose label will be: CB MP. This CB must be selected according to the total load that will be used in the control panel; see figure CPL 01A for a power diagram. • Power Supply (PS) If power supplies are used to feed 24 VDC to the controllers, the power supply must have a circuit breaker in the primary circuit and NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 527 2023 another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrent. See Figure CPL 01A for the power diagram. • Transformers (TX) Each 120 / 24 VAC transformer used in the control panel must have a circuit breaker in both the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrents. See Figure CPL 01A for a power diagram. • Single Terminal and double level terminal block i. Single terminal block Use single terminal blocks for the 120 VAC main power supply connections to the control panel as well as the low voltage connections after the power supply and transformers. See Figure CPL 02 for details of the terminal block and circuit breakers for 120 VAC (TB P1) and for low voltage 24 VAC and 24 VDC (TB P2), and Figure CPL 1A for a wire diagram reference. ii. Double level terminal block Inputs and Outputs: All the signals from the field devices must be connected to these terminals. There should be a strip of double level terminal blocks for inputs and a strip of double level terminal blocks for the output signal for the field. See Figure CPL 03 TB 01 as references. The top level has an odd number for a positive signal, and the bottom level has an even number for a negative signal. Field Power devices: A double level terminal block strip; check terminal block TB FPW shown in figure CPL 03 to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimal of two double terminal block for 24VAC (T3) blue color and two double terminal block for COM (T4) yellow color. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 528 2023 • Layout Spaces The control panel has to consider the following table for the minimum and maximum space to install the DIN rail that holds the terminal block strip, circuit breaker, control relays, and controllers, as shown in figure CPL 01 as a reference. Reference InchMIN MAXA55.5B56C12D12E55.5 • Labels The control panel has to have labels for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to have wire labels. • Wire duct The control panel layout drawing has to indicate the width and height of the wire duct (Panduit), as shown on Figure CPL 01 as a reference. The wire duct has to be selected according to the manufacturer's recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 529 2023 Figure: CPL 01 Reference InchMIN MAX A 5 5.5 B 5 6 C12D 1 2 E55.5 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 530 2023 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 531 2023 Figure: CPL 02 Figure: CPL 03 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 532 2023 Figure: CPL 4 Reference InchMIN MAX B 5 6 E 5 5.5 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 533 2023 iv. Power Systems & Equipment (AHU's, Chillers, etc.) fed from emergency power sources shall have their associated DDC controllers and DDC devices fed from the same emergency source. All control power, 24V or otherwise, shall be protected with a line filter, surge suppressor, electrical breaker, and control fuse (last two need discussion). a. Control Transformer General • Transformer shall be sized as follows for optimal performance and overheat issues. o Control Panels: Total VA of all controllers in the panel on the same power loop x 1.5 = Transformer size o Controllers with actuator: Total VA of all controllers and actuators on the same power loop x2 or x3 based on total devices = Transformer size Product • Manufacturer: Functional Devices, Inc. • Models: o 50VA Part No.: TR50VA005US o 75VA Part No.: TR75VA005 o 100VA Part No.: TR100VA005 b. Uninterruptible Power Supply for Network Hardware General • The UPS shall be monitored at the nearest network switch via an IP network wire in conduit. Product • Manufacturer: Schneider APC • Model: SUA500PDRI H Execution • Ensure UPS is wired as per manufacturer's specifications. v. Wire General • All wiring to be in accordance with manufacturer requirements, local and national electric codes, and latest NYC Building Code. • Cables for 120/24 VAC wiring, communications wiring and low level signal wiring (i.e., 4 20ma, 0 10v) shall always be run in separate raceways. • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be plenum rated cable. • All wiring in Mechanical Equipment Rooms, communications or electrical closets shall be in approved raceway (conduit, EMT, etc.). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 534 2023 • Wiring within inaccessible ceilings shall be installed in conduit. • Wiring within drywall cavities or enclosure or beneath raised floor construction shall be in conduit. • The supporting of wiring from other equipment, mechanical ductwork or piping shall not be acceptable. Provide individual supports for conduit and free air plenum cable. • No 300 volt insulated (rated) wiring shall terminate within or occupy any enclosure containing conductors operating at a voltage greater than 300 volts. This particularly applies to any analog or digital I/O wiring entering 460 volt motor starter enclosures or motor control centers. • Wire jacket colors shall comply with the Wire Jacket Color Requirements. • Wire jacket/insulation must be compatible with duct seal putty. • BMS conduit color labelling shall be Orange background with Black lettering BMSBlack on OrangeTEXT Products • See subsections for product requirements Execution • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be bundled together and protected from mechanical damage. • Wiring shall be independently supported from the building structure with bridal rings and clips. • All control wiring internal to the panel shall be wired from the I/O of the controller to the terminal strip. Under no circumstance will field wiring be terminated from inputs or outputs directly to the controllers. • Terminations shall be mechanically and electrically secure. Twist type wire nuts shall not be acceptable. Insulated tinned copper lugs shall be provided. • Perform continuity and point to point testing for all wiring installed. • Wire stripping and terminations shall follow the correct installation procedure as shown below: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 535 2023 a. Analog & Digital Signal Wire General • Wire jacket/insulation shall be compatible with duct seal putty. Product • 3 Conductor Shielded o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 2335# the last digit(s) indicates the color • 2 Conductor Shielded o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 232# the last digit(s) indicates the color b. IP Network Wire General • All CAT 6 cable runs shall not exceed 100 meters in length. Product • Manufacturer: Belden • Model: 7882A D151000 c. Non IP Network Wire General • This section applies to cabling used in the following applications o ARC156 o MS/TP Networks o Modbus CommunicationRTU Product • Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. • Model: 043006AL S d. Power Wire See NYU Langone Health Electrical Design Guidelines for power wire requirements at voltages equal to and above 120 Volts. e. Wire Labels & Labeling General • All wires terminating at each field device, terminal box, field equipment cabinet, DDC control unit, or any other terminals shall be identified by labels. • Identification shall be consistent with the tagging indicated on the approved shop drawings. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 536 2023 • All communication wiring shall be tagged with the previous and post devices on the network. • The same identification code shall be carried through from the field device to the final termination point. Product • Brady clip sleeve type non metallic wire markers or equivalent. Execution • After identification is complete, the wire markers shall be anchored using a single layer of non yellowing clear Mylar tape. H. Smarts i. Alarms General Requirements: • All digital input points shall be alarmed on change of state from normal state. Include a 60 second time delay on make unless specified in Alarm Parametersfor deadband. • All analog input points shall be alarmed. Provide adjustable deadband to prevent nuisance alarms. Include a 300 second time delay on make and appropriate deadband unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • Nuisance alarms (i.e., repeating alarms) will be corrected during warranty period. Nuisance alarms are considered alarms that repeat due to poorly configured alarms or if smart alarms are not installed and cause unnecessary lower tier alarms. • All systems that are capable of automatic restart after a shutdown/alarm condition shall be able to have remote alarm clearing and acknowledgement ability through the BMS. Local clearing of alarms shall only be necessary with systems that can only be reset locally. • For projects on the Manhattan Main Campus and Long Island Main Campus, alarming shall be integrated in to Virtual Facility Alarm Triage. Smart Alarming: • Smart alarming feature shall be implemented when an equipment failure will trigger multiple secondary alarms causing unnecessary data transmission and operator alarm acknowledgement. Smart alarming shall be utilized to prevent unnecessary alarming of points. • Smart alarms shall be implemented for the following systems: o Air handling units o Chilled, condenser and hot water systems o Secondary water systems o Rooms that are monitored via door contacts and room pressure monitors o The following are some examples: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 537 2023  Air Handling Unit Run Failure On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on or air handling unit shut down due to a safety device, or if an air handling unit is off, provide a software program which shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and humidity sensor associated with the air handling unit. On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on, an alarm should trigger for the fan status loss, but no pressure sensor alarm or supply air temperature alarm or normal room temperature alarms. On failure of an air handling unit with more than one (1) fan, one (1) alarm shall generated for failure. All individual fan fail alarm will disabled. All VAV boxes or other terminal units reliant on airflow from the AHU will have their alarms disabled upon air handling unit failure to run or has not proven status. All safety devices (pressure switches and freezestats) shall remain active and capable of alarming. In general, space temperature alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall be disabled. However, extreme room temperatures or freezing preheat temperatures should annunciate (Note: There may be critical rooms such as cold rooms which will continue to be monitored for alarm.) All space pressurization alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall continue to be monitored for alarm. Upon a smart alarm activation, the alarm message must read that this is a smart alarm and some alarms have been suppressed. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Secondary Water System Failure On failure of all pumps associated with a secondary water system, provide a software program that shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and flow sensor associated with the water system. All alarms associated with equipment that is disabled (i.e., off) shall be inhibited from operating. When a piece of equipment is off, all alarms associated with the equipment, as well as alarms associated with areas served by the equipment or secondary equipment served, shall be disabled. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 538 2023 alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Filter Alarm All filters shall be provided with a differential pressure transmitter that shall be monitored at the BMS. Dirty filter alarms shall be generated when the differential pressure across the filter has exceeded setpoint (adj.). Filter alarms based off runtime are not acceptable. Alarm Parameters: • Alarm parameters shall be structured as follows: AlarmDelay on Make (seconds) Delay on Break (seconds) Multiple Fan Array Fail Individual360060Multiple Fan Array Fail Unit3000Single Office Fan Fail6000Single Lab Fan Failure3000Single Critical Fan Failure600Pump Failure600Fan/Pump VFD Common Alarm1800600Fan Filter846003600Fan Temperature 60060Fan/Pump Pressure (Static/DP)30060Fan AirFlow72003600VAV Room Temperature60060VAV AirFlow3600600Leak Detector6010Freeze Detector6010 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 539 2023 Alarm Syntax: • Alarm syntax shall be structured as follows: o Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm, Contact Shop o Example: **** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm Contact Energy Shop • Return to Normal syntax shall be structured as follows: o Return to Normal (Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm) o Example: Return to Normal (**** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm) • Priority Designation: o ***** 5 Star Alarms:  Animal Facility/Vivarium Related Alarms  Animal Facility/Vivarium Fan failures, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Labs ABSL 3 Fan Failures, Space Temp/Humidity, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Fan Failures Affecting Operating Room, Isolation Rooms, Protective Environment Rooms (Fans include air handling unit supply, return, and exhaust fans)  Emergency Power Related Alarms  Medical Air System Alarms  Compressed Air Systems  Procedure Rooms Alarms  Data Center Alarms o **** 4 Star Alarms:  OR Temperature and Humidity Alarms  OR Fan System Failures  OR Reheat System Alarms  Sump Pit Overflow Alarms  Ejector Pit Overflow Alarms o *** 3 Star Alarms:  Vacuum System Alarms  General Reheat and Perimeter Space Alarms  General Lab Fan Failure Alarms  Sump Pit Alarms  Ejector Pit Alarms  Walk In Box Alarms o ** 2 Star Alarms:  Office Fan Failure Alarms  General Lab Temperature and Humidity Alarms  General Lab Airflow Alarm o Non Critical Alarms:  Office Temperature and Humidity Alarms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 540 2023 • Critical vs. Non Critical: o The designation “Critical” shall be included in the alarm syntax only for 2, 3, 4, and 5 star alarms. For all other alarms not listed above, the designation “Non Critical” shall be used. • Building Abbreviations (for NYULH Main Campus): o Alumni Hall ALH o Berg BRG o Coles Student Laboratory Coles o Energy Building EB o Greenberg Hall GBH o Medical Science Building MSB o Millhauser Mil o Tisch Hospital TH o Schwartz Health Care Center HCC o Science Building SB o Skirball Institute Skirball o Smilow Research Center SRC o Kimmel Pavilion KP • Floor: o Identify floor where alarm is active (e.g., 2nd Floor, Lobby, roof) • System: o Utilize equipment tag or designation (e.g., AC3 7, AHU TH 18 1, Walk In Box Room 225, Filtration Water Holding Tank) • Alarm: o Identify actual device in alarm (e.g., Cooling Tower Trip Alarm, Fan Failure Alarm, Common Alarm, High Humidity Alarm). • Contact Shop: o Energy Shop  All BMS Related Communication Alarms and Outages  All BMS AHU, VAV, HW System Alarms (Energy to Reassign Post Control Signal Confirmation/Verification)  All BMS AHU Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop)  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop) o HVAC Shop  All CHW FCU Related Alarms  All Pneumatic Related Alarms  All HVAC (AHU, FCU) Filter Related Alarms  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  All Low and Medium Steam Pressure Alarms, including HW System DP Alarms  All AHU Related Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  Building Engineers  All CHW Plant Related Alarms Building to reassign these alarms when applicable  All Fire System Alarms  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 541 2023  All High Steam Pressure Alarms  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Plumbing Shop is Primary) o Plumbing Shop  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Pump Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Medical Air System Alarms o House Electricians  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Power Related Alarms