as Huntington’s disease and High Intensity Focused Ultrasound For people who have essential tremor or Parkinson’s disease with severe tremor, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a noninvasive approach that counters abnormal brain signals associated with the condition. HIFU works by sending a focused ultrasound beam from an external transmitter into the brain to destroy the neural tissue that is causing the unwanted motor symptoms. VIDEO: Under the care of Dr. Alon Mogilner at the Center for Neuromodulation, Vincent receives high intensity focused ultrasound to successfully treat his tremors. To confirm that symptoms can be reduced without unwanted side effects, our doctors precisely map the brain area, and then apply test doses to produce a temporary lesion. Once the target is confirmed, multiple 30-second treatment doses of HIFU are given while you are inside an MRI machine. This outpatient procedure takes just a few hours to complete. Following the procedure, symptoms improve immediately, and you can return to your normal activities. NYU Langone’s Center for Neuromodulation is one of only two facilities in New York state that offer this procedure. Spinal Cord Stimulation Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a surgical procedure used to manage chronic pain in the arms, legs, and back that may result from many conditions, including complex regional pain syndrome and . Electrodes are placed over the lining of the spinal cord, known as the dura, to deliver stimulation. SCS is performed in two separate stages: a trial procedure, followed by a permanent implant if the trial is successful. Each stage takes between one and two hours, and the vast majority of these surgeries are done as an outpatient. Stage one involves implanting trial electrodes, via small needles, which are then connected to an external battery and programmer. We ask you to try the stimulation at home for a week and assess its ability to provide pain relief. The electrodes are easily removed in the office approximately one week later. If the trial demonstrates a significant improvement in your pain, permanent implantation can take place during a short surgical procedure. The trial electrodes are removed and permanent ones are put in place and connected to a pacemaker-like device that is implanted under your skin. After the procedure, you are taught to use the device to control pain as needed. Adjustments to the strength and location of stimulation can be easily made via a handheld remote control. Peripheral Neurostimulation Peripheral neurostimulation (PNS) is a surgical procedure used to treat patients with chronic headaches or facial pain. Electrodes are placed under the skin of the scalp or area of the face where the pain is occurring and then connected to a pacemaker-like device that is also implanted beneath the skin. Electrical stimulation is applied to the affected area, which multiple studies have proven to be highly effective in decreasing the severity and frequency of headache or facial pain The outpatient PNS procedure is performed in two separate hour-long stages. The first stage uses trial electrodes, with a number of stimulation programs administered over the next few days. If this trial demonstrates a significant improvement in your headache or facial pain, permanent implantation can take place. In stage two, a permanent set of electrodes are implanted and then connected to a small pacemaker-like device that is inserted under the skin in the chest, abdomen, or back. The specific device used is tailored to each person’s needs. After implantation, we teach you how to use the device to control pain as needed. Adjustments to the strength and location of stimulation can be easily made via a handheld remote control. Intrathecal Pump Placement In patients with debilitating spasticity, such as children with cerebral palsy or adults after , as well as people with or spinal cord injury, a small catheter can be placed into the spinal fluid and connected to a medication pump under the skin. This pump delivers highly potent baclofen, a medication that helps relax muscles and stop cramping. We have doctors located throughout Manhattan. When you are diagnosed with a tumor in your sinuses, nose, pituitary gland, or the frontal lobes of your brain, we understand that you may feel overwhelmed. The idea of having surgery in this delicate area that is home to nerves related to balance, facial movement, hearing, and sight can cause many people to feel anxious or worried. Rest assured that the medical team at NYU Langone’s Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center has the experience and skill to provide you with the best treatment for your condition. Dr. Chandra Sen Dr. Richard Lebowitz , who have a combined 40 years of experience focused specifically on using anterior skull base surgery to remove tumors such as meningiomas , craniopharyngioma, juvenile angiofibromas, chordomas, and esthesioneuroblastomas. We also treat patients with non-tumorous conditions, such as cerebrospinal fluid fistulas and mucoceles. In all, we perform more than 100 such procedures each year. Otolaryngologist Dr. Richard Lebowitz analyzes scans on his computer. The Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center team includes neurosurgeons as well as otolaryngologists, also known as ear, nose, and throat specialists, who are experienced in both open craniotomy and endoscopic endonasal surgery. The craniotomy approach requires opening the skull to perform surgery, a procedure that creates visible incisions and generally requires a longer hospital stay and recovery time. Many patients qualify for a less invasive approach: endonasal endoscopy. Instead of opening the skull to access the tumor, a tiny camera attached to a long, thin, lighted tube is inserted into the nasal and sinus cavity, so it can relay images of the tumor site to a television screen. The neurosurgeon inserts small tools through the nasal cavity and removes the tumor using those images as a guide. The minimally invasive endoscopic approach means that, unlike open craniotomy surgery, there is no visible scarring, and many patients are back to work within two to six weeks. Our neurosurgeons and cancer experts treat patients with malignant and benign tumors that occur in the delicate area at the base of the brain. Learn More About Skull Base Tumors For tumors that require radiation therapy, we use Leksell Gamma Knife Icon™ radiosurgery , which allows us to deliver targeted, precise doses of radiation therapy to a brain tumor. During your first visit to the Anterior Skull Base Surgery Center, we review your symptoms, imaging studies such as CT and MRI scans, and any other pertinent test results to assess the best treatment approach for your condition. Depending on your specific problem, your surgeon then refers you for consultation with other members of your healthcare team as necessary, including otolaryngologists, endocrinologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, and neuro-oncologists. During your treatment, you are cared for by our neurosurgery nursing team that specializes in caring for patients after brain surgery. Most skull base tumors are benign, but if follow-up cancer treatment is required, we connect you with NYU Langone’s . If you need help with walking or balance after surgery, the experts at NYU Langone’s renowned can help. We accept most insurance plans. Our office staff is happy to help you work with your insurance provider to ensure that you get the care you need in a way that is financially viable for you. Our neurosurgeons and otolaryngologists work together to provide the best treatments for conditions of the anterior skull base. Hepatobiliary & Pancreatic Surgery Liver Tumor Program Liver Transplantation Pancreatic Cancer Center Pancreas Transplantation 250+ Pancreatectomies Annually As one of the nation’s highest-volume centers for pancreas surgery, we’re able to deliver superior outcomes. Pancreatic Robotic Surgeries We perform more robotic-assisted pancreatic surgeries each year than any other health system in New York State. Leaders in Liver Transplants Our one-year patient survival rate for liver transplants is the highest in New York State. NYU Langone hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgeons are renowned worldwide for their skill and expertise in caring for people with benign and cancerous conditions that affect the liver, pancreas, bile duct, and gallbladder. Our mastery of open, minimally invasive, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted procedures, along with our relentless dedication to quality, enable us to treat all disorders of these organs, including the rarest and most highly complex, with outstanding outcomes. Excellence in Cancer Care We are part of Perlmutter Cancer Center, an NCI-Designated Comprehensive Cancer Center. We provide care for people with cancers of the bile duct , gallbladder, . Our surgical team at the has built a reputation as being among the best in the nation for pancreatic procedures. Our surgeons routinely perform the robotic Whipple operation and removal of tumors with major blood vessel involvement—often those that other hospitals consider inoperable. Highly specialized surgeons at our can perform essentially any operation necessary to treat cancer, ranging from robotic liver resections to liver transplantation. Histotripsy for Liver Cancer We are the first hospital system in New York City to offer this groundbreaking technology. Histotripsy, a noninvasive form of focused ultrasound, destroys liver tumors on a subcellular level, offering unprecedented precision. The team at NYU Langone’s specializes in treating people with , pancreatic cysts, pancreatic tumors, and pancreatic cancer. They also offer genetic testing and counseling for people who may be at increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer due to family history or other risk factors. Members of our team are part of the —where we offer exceptional care that incorporates the latest technological advancements in living donor liver , liver–kidney, , and kidney–pancreas transplants. Our high-volume liver transplant program performs 100+ transplants annually. We have the highest one-year patient survival rate in New York State, and a 100 percent one-year survival rate for people receiving a liver from a living donor. provides Hispanic and Latino children and adults with culturally conscious care. Liver transplants for children are offered by the Excellence in Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer Our program is among the few worldwide specializing in advanced vascular techniques: these allow us to remove tumors most other programs thought were inoperable. Our team is skilled in the most advanced minimally invasive and robotic surgical techniques, which we offer at all of our locations: . Our operating rooms are among the most technologically advanced in the nation, with many featuring imaging systems that reveal tumors on a microscopic scale. We are the highest-volume robotic pancreatectomy program in New York State and one of the highest-volume robotic hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery programs in the nation. We are among the only teams in the world to offer vascular reconstruction after partial or total pancreatectomy for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. This complex procedure can in many cases lead to remission of the disease. In addition, we perform all surgical procedures to treat disorders of the liver, pancreas, bile duct, and gallbladder, including the following. biliary tract surgery, including Kasai procedure, or portoenterostomy , for children with biliary atresia gallbladder surgery hepaticojejunostomy, or Roux-en-Y procedure, for bile duct injuries and tumors, palliative bypass, and choledochal cysts procedures for liver cancer and liver metastases including open, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted liver resection and portal vein embolization procedures for pancreatic cancer , including open and robotic Whipple procedures, also called pancreaticoduodenectomy; pancreaticoduodenectomy with vascular reconstruction; distal pancreatectomy; and total pancreatectomy pancreatic enucleation for people with benign and some cancerous pancreatic tumors islet cell transplant for people with certain types of diabetes For for which surgery is recommended, we specialize in a wide range of procedures , including endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and debridement and drainage procedures such as pancreatic cyst gastronomy. We create an individualized treatment plan for every person we care for, drawing on our expertise in endoscopic and surgical treatments as well as medical therapies. In addition, we offer patient education and ongoing monitoring and support for patients and loved ones. We provide survivorship groups and palliative care to ensure long-term health monitoring and improvements to quality of life. As a National Pancreas Foundation Center of Excellence, we lead the nation in the prevention, early detection, and treatment of pancreatic cancer. Our Leading-Edge Research Our team are leaders in basic, translational, and clinical research aimed at learning more about and discovering new treatments for pancreatic cancer and other hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases and conditions. Our Centers & Programs Our experts aim to transform the prevention, early detection, and treatment of pancreatic cancer for patients. Our experts specialize in diagnosing and treating conditions that affect the pancreas. Our team of experts provides innovative treatments for people who have liver, gallbladder, and other biliary tract tumors. Our experts provide advanced care for people with diabetes who may benefit from a pancreas transplant. We provide specialized liver transplant care and other surgical procedures for adults and children. We provide culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino children and adults. New Section Chief of Pancreas Surgery Named One Split Liver Transplant Saves a Toddler & a 63-Year-Old Become a Living Liver Donor Support the Living Liver Donor Program Make a monetary donation to support our living liver donor program. The number of people added to the national liver transplant waiting list grows each year. But the number of available livers from deceased donors stays about the same. As a result, people who need lifesaving liver transplant surgery to treat cirrhosis, liver failure, , and other conditions often face long wait times. , our doctors perform living donor transplants to treat many kinds of liver disease. This approach creates shorter wait times and improved health for liver recipients. Organ Donation by Living Liver Donors For a living donor transplant, donors provide part of their healthy liver—up to 70 percent—to a recipient. The livers of both the donor and recipient regrow to full size approximately three months after the surgery. There is no financial or medical benefit to donating a part of your liver, but helping another person live can be rewarding. We conduct an extensive evaluation process to minimize the risks to the donor, ensuring safety above everything else. Any healthy individual can be a donor, not just immediate family members. Nondirected donation involves donating to a stranger. Another option is paired exchange, in which living liver donor and recipient pairs collaborate to find compatible livers for each recipient. Benefits of Living Liver Donation Some patients, such as those with liver cancer or certain blood types, may benefit more from a living donor liver transplant than they would from a transplant that came from a deceased donor. In addition, when an organ is received from a deceased liver donor, surgery must occur on a rapid timeline. Living donation allows the liver recipient to prepare for surgery. The surgical date can be planned around your schedule, as well as the schedule of your medical team and the recipient. Doctors can also schedule surgery at a time when the recipient is doing well medically. The healthier the recipient is before transplant, the better the outcome usually is. The goal is to perform liver transplant early in the disease process, before other organs and systems are affected. This allows for a safer procedure, speeds the recovery process, and improves surgical outcomes. Living Liver Donor Consultation All prospective donors complete a series of medical examinations and interviews with our staff to determine whether they are appropriate candidates for living liver donation. The consultation may include the following: blood tests to check for a compatible blood type and conditions such as fatty liver disease or , which exclude candidates from donating , such as X-rays and MRI or CT scans to ensure the liver has a portion large enough to donate and has a good blood supply an evaluation from a cardiologist that includes an electrocardiogram (EKG) to check the electrical activity of the heart and an echocardiogram, an imaging test to assess the heart valves and pumping action pulmonary function tests to check lung health a meeting with a social worker or psychologist to ensure the donor understands and is prepared for the process a discussion with a transplant surgeon and hepatologist about the procedure and recovery a meeting with an independent living donor advocate, who ensures that the liver donor’s interests are represented When the living liver donor evaluation is complete, our transplant team meets with the prospective donor to discuss test results and candidacy. If the team agrees, the surgery is scheduled based around the donor’s and recipient’s schedules. What to Expect from Living Donor Surgery NYU Langone surgeons are experts at performing living liver donor surgery. This procedure consists of a partial hepatectomy—the surgical removal of a portion of the liver. During liver donor transplantation, your doctor makes an incision across the abdomen to carefully remove a part of the liver, along with the gallbladder. The donor surgery takes about six to eight hours. The transplant team will stop the procedure if they think your liver is not suitable for the recipient. After the surgery, you recover in a surgical intensive care unit (ICU) overnight and then are transferred to a regular hospital recovery room for about five days. After returning home, you continue to see your NYU Langone doctors for regular follow-up appointments to ensure you are healing well. Most people are able to go back to their daily activities six to eight weeks after the procedure. If you are interested in becoming a living liver donor, you can complete a confidential health screening for liver donations to begin the process. To learn more about liver donation or to speak with a liver donor team specialist, call and then select option 4, or email LivingLiverDonorTeam@NYULangone.org Leksell Gamma Knife Icon™ radiosurgery, available at NYU Langone’s Center for Advanced Radiosurgery, is the most established form of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), a dedicated and minimally invasive method of treatment for brain tumors, blood vessel malformations, and other brain disorders. It requires no surgical incision in order to reach the target area. Gamma Knife is used on lesions and abnormalities in the brain. Gamma Knife radiosurgery is unlike any other form of SRS because it is used exclusively for the brain. Surgeons use MRI or other high-resolution brain imaging to create a three-dimensional picture of the targeted part of the brain. The Gamma Knife then delivers small beams of radiation that concentrate within the target. The radiation is delivered with a high degree of precision. Radiation oncologist Dr. Joshua Silverman and neurosurgeon Dr. Douglas Kondziolka review images. The Gamma Knife has no moving parts for radiation delivery, which reduces the margin for mechanical error. The Gamma Knife Icon The Gamma Knife Icon™ is the newest, most sophisticated version of SRS, both for the device and the software that powers radiation dose planning. The Icon™ system features advanced patient treatment and safety features, including a newly remastered, more flexible dose delivery system that allows physicians to administer doses to one or more targets in the brain while the patient is in the same treatment position. The team at the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery can provide noninvasive treatment to multiple brain lesions simultaneously in a single procedure. Patient Benefits: Safety and Effectiveness The Gamma Knife allows surgeons to perform brain surgery without opening the skull, and the affected tissue can be targeted with extreme precision, while sparing the surrounding healthy tissues. Because a surgical incision is not required, the risks associated with open brain surgery, including acute hemorrhage, spinal fluid leakage and infection, are reduced. Patients typically receive sedation and are able to communicate during treatment as well, thereby eliminating the risks associated with general anesthesia. As a result, patients who undergo Gamma Knife radiosurgery are less likely to experience complications that with conventional open brain surgery, and tend to report back with positive outcomes. The procedure usually does not require an overnight stay, and the majority of patients are discharged home the same morning. While patients must come in early to register at the hospital, most are finished in time for lunch, and although individual patient outcomes may vary, patients can often resume their normal activities the day after treatment. In contrast, conventional open brain surgery typically requires hospitalization for several days or longer. By avoiding this hospital stay, radiosurgery also helps reduce the cost of treatment. Are There Alternative Treatment Options? The alternatives to Gamma Knife radiosurgery include conventional brain surgery, radiation therapy, and other techniques of radiation delivery, such as proton therapy, or machines such as Cyberknife or modified linear accelerators. Gamma Knife is the most established, well-researched, and validated form of radiosurgery. To help you determine the best treatment for your tumor or condition, your neurosurgeon and radiation oncologist explain the options available to you. For instance, in the majority of cases, when intracranial radiosurgery is indicated, we believe Gamma Knife is the best choice. This belief is reflected in the general medical literature, and is also documented by our own published results. We see patients at locations in Manhattan, Westchester County, and on Long Island. At NYU Langone’s Center for Esophageal Health, our experts provide highly specialized care for people who have complex conditions of the esophagus and persistent, challenging symptoms that require advanced diagnosis and treatment. Our expertise allows us to offer leading-edge diagnostic testing, innovative therapies, and surgical options to people whose symptoms—chronic heartburn, regurgitation, belching, throat discomfort, difficulty swallowing, or non-cardiac chest pain—recur despite prior treatment. We also specialize in diagnosing and treating the underlying conditions that can cause those symptoms, including Barrett’s esophagus , hiatal or paraesophageal hernia , eosinophilic esophagitis, and or other swallowing disorders. “I had been in pain and suffering for so long, I had forgotten what it felt like to be normal. Thank you so much for making me feel better and giving me my best life back.” Rikki, Age 57 No matter which esophageal health issue brings you to us, our multidiscliplinary team—including gastroenterology motility experts, advanced endoscopists, surgeons, nurses, nutritionists, and psychologists—provides advanced, comprehensive, and integrated care that supports your overall health and wellbeing. A Personalized Approach to Care Our team understands that no two people—or their symptoms—are alike. We carefully review your medical history, perform a thorough physical exam, and use the most sophisticated diagnostic tests available to understand the relationship between your symptoms and the functioning of your gastrointestinal tract. We use all of this information to determine the cause of your symptoms, and then we partner with you to create a personalized treatment plan for your health needs. Our experts partner with you to create a personalized treatment plan for your health needs. We also coordinate with your referring doctor and, when needed, specialists in other areas, such as allergy medicine; cardiology; ear, nose, and throat medicine; physical therapy; pulmonology; sleep medicine; and speech and swallowing therapy, among others, to accurately diagnose the underlying cause of your symptoms. Specialized Diagnostic Capabilities Our experts use highly specialized diagnostic techniques and leading technology to provide an accurate diagnosis. In addition to general upper gastrointestinal diagnostic testing, such as barium esophagram and upper endoscopy, we use tests including the following: high-resolution esophageal manometry with impedance, which allows doctors to examine the esophageal sphincter, a ring of muscles that form a valve between the esophagus and stomach, as well as how the esophagus functions during swallowing 24-hour pH impedance testing, which measures the extent to which stomach contents move into the esophagus over a full day 48- to 96-hour wireless pH testing, which measures and records the level of acidity in your esophagus over multiple days functional lumen imaging probe evaluation, also known as FLIP, a minimally invasive procedure that measures the diameter and contractions of the esophagus advanced techniques to diagnose Barrett’s esophagus, including WATS 3D brush biopsy, which may detect early esophageal cancer, and confocal laser, which provides precise and detailed imaging during a biopsy endoscopic ultrasound, also known as EUS, which can provide images through the wall of the esophagus not seen with standard upper endoscopy We offer a full range of treatment options, including diet and lifestyle recommendations, complementary and integrative medical approaches, behavioral psychology treatments and counseling, physical therapies such as swallowing therapy, and the latest available prescribed medications. Our examinations and diagnostic testing may also lead us to recommend other innovative treatments and surgical options. Our doctors specialize in advanced endoscopic and minimally invasive surgical procedures including the following. Treatments for GERD laparoscopic and transoral incisionless fundoplication, in which doctors partially or completely wrap the top part of the stomach around the lower esophagus to prevent the backflow of acid minimally invasive hiatal hernia and paraesophageal hernia repair, during which the surgeon brings the portion of stomach that herniates into the chest back into the abdomen, tightens the diaphragmatic opening, and performs a partial fundoplication minimally invasive LINX® Reflux Management System magnetic sphincter augmentation, a procedure in which a magnetic ring is placed around the lower esophagus to stop the backflow of stomach contents Stretta® endoscopic radiofrequency treatment, which uses low-frequency energy to thicken the muscles of the esophagus, which then form a natural barrier to acid In most cases, you can go home the same day or within 24 hours after these procedures. Treatments for Barrett’s Esophagus cryotherapy, in which extreme cold is used to destroy damaged tissue endoscopic mucosal resection, also called EMR, a minimally invasive procedure used to remove abnormal or precancerous tissue from the lining of the esophagus endoscopic submucosal dissection, also called ESD, a procedure in which a liquid is injected under abnormal tissue to raise it and make it easier for doctors to remove radiofrequency ablation, in which high-energy radio waves are used to destroy precancerous tissue Treatments for Swallowing Disorders endoscopic Botox® therapy, a treatment in which the doctor injects Botox® into the lower esophageal sphincter to relax the muscles and make swallowing easier endoscopic dilatation, in which doctors use a balloon-like instrument or tubes to enlarge the esophagus and ease swallowing endoscopic stent placement, in which the surgeon places a hollow tube into the esophagus to make swallowing easier myotomy, in which the doctor cuts some of the muscles in the esophagus to ease swallowing; our doctors are experts in minimally invasive Heller myotomy and peroral endoscopic myotomy, also called POEM If your treatment plan involves weight loss or a procedure, we work closely with our bariatric surgeons and other experts at NYU Langone’s to provide you with care and support. Depending on your symptoms, diagnosis, and other health needs, our doctors may also recommend you participate in one of our , which provide access to investigational therapies. For people who need further evaluation or treatment for esophageal , we collaborate closely with our experts at the To make an appointment with one of our gastroenterologists, call 212-263-3095 . For an appointment with one of our surgeons, call 212-263-7302 Our team provides state-of-the-art, advanced diagnosis, treatment, and care for people who have esophageal symptoms and conditions. Surgical Director Abraham R. Khan Shreya Chablaney Esophagus Doctor Tamas A. Gonda Advanced Endoscopy Specialist Seth A. Gross Gastroenterologist Gregory B. Haber Justin R. Henning Lauren G. Khanna Rita M. Knotts Xavier Pereira Colon Cancer Screening & Prevention Program View All Locations (10) Our experts provide comprehensive, coordinated treatment and seamless care for people with even the most complex colorectal cancers. Cancers of the colon and rectum are sometimes called , or just colon cancer. At NYU Langone, we’re working to help prevent colon cancer and to detect it at its earliest stages, when it’s highly curable. Most colon cancers develop from precancerous growths called polyps. Precancerous polyps and early colon cancers often cause no symptoms. This is why colorectal cancer screening is key to early detection and prevention. Several types of screening tests are available, including colonoscopy, which is the most comprehensive method to screen for colon cancer. NYU Langone gastroenterologists like Dr. Mark Pochapin specialize in colonoscopy screening for the prevention and early detection of colon cancer. Current guidelines recommend that people who are at average risk for colon cancer begin screening at age 45. Those with certain risk factors—including a family history of advanced polyps, called adenomas, or colorectal cancer—should begin screening at an earlier age, in accordance with their health provider’s guidance. Screening Options for Colon and Rectal Cancers According to the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer Screening, people age 45 or older should consult with their provider to choose one of the following first-line colorectal cancer screening options: FIT test At NYU Langone’s Colon Cancer Screening and Prevention Program, our gastroenterologists are highly trained and skilled in performing colonoscopies. Through this screening, they can detect and remove polyps before they turn into cancer, or detect colon cancer in its earliest stages. Our gastroenterology offices and procedure centers are conveniently located throughout New York City and Long Island. Two other screening tests, the FIT test or FIT kit, and the multitarget DNA stool test, called Cologuard, can be performed at home. A follow-up colonoscopy is only required if test results are abnormal. Learn more about colonoscopy, other screening tests, and how and when we screen for colon cancer . Your primary care provider or a gastroenterologist can help you decide which option is best for you and schedule a screening. A Modern Approach to Colon and Rectal Cancer Screenings At NYU Langone’s Colon Cancer Screening and Prevention Program, we are dedicated to studying the newest technologies—including innovations in artificial intelligence—to help make colonoscopy and other screening methods even more effective. Our experts collaborate closely with referring physicians, primary care physicians, and other specialists to ensure a comprehensive, compassionate, and patient-centered approach to care. If you receive a diagnosis of colon cancer, our experts at NYU Langone’s can partner with you to create a highly specialized, personalized plan for treatment, care, and support. Our Locations (10) NYU Langone Gastroenterology Associates 240 East 38th Street, 23rd Floor, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-3096 NYU Langone at Great Neck Medical 488 Great Neck Road, Great Neck, NY, 11021 516-482-6747 516-482-4851 NYU Langone Nassau Gastroenterology Associates 1999 Marcus Avenue, Suite 300, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-466-2340 516-466-7661 NYU Langone Brooklyn Endoscopy & Ambulatory Surgery Center 1630 East 14th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-336-9100 718-336-2328 Age 45 or Older? Time to Be Screened for Colorectal Cancer. Raising Awareness for Colorectal Cancer Screenings Cohen Foundation Gift Expands Colorectal Cancer Screening Black Americans Urged to Get Regular Colon Cancer Screening Study Shows Promising Results for Cuff-Assisted Colonoscopy Dr. Mark Pochapin Explains New Colon Cancer Screening Rules Doctors Use New Tool to Remove Gastrointestinal Lesions Tips for Colorectal Cancer Screening Email: voicecenter@med.nyu.edu 646-754-1207 Care for the Performing Voice Treating Dysphagia Testing Offered At NYU Langone’s Voice Center, our team of experts are dedicated to providing evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment for a wide range of conditions that affect swallowing and the sound and quality of the voice —including sore throat, infectious and inflammatory disorders, vocal cord paralysis, and vocal cord cancer—and offer a level of expertise not available anywhere else in the region. We perform research related to voice, swallowing, and airway disorders. Learn About Our Laryngology Research Our fellowship-trained laryngologists, together with our experienced speech–language pathologists, work as a team to evaluate and treat conditions that include problems with swallowing, acid reflux, and chronic cough, as well as tremor, aging voice, injuries related to overuse of the voice, and , including cysts, polyps, and nodules. Our multidisciplinary clinic provides a comprehensive approach to your health needs. We’re transforming lives through quality care and rehabilitation in dysphagia. Researchers work together to find new treatment pathways for patients with complex laryngeal disorders. Our experts are dedicated to providing individualized care for every voice problem. We work to empower you on your journey to recovery. We believe that providing compassionate care makes a difference. Together, we make a difference in the world of voice and swallowing disorders. We specialize in caring for the performing voice . Our team works with professional singers and actors across genres, as well as singers in training, amateurs, and other performers. We also treat other professionals who rely on their voice to perform their jobs, such as teachers, lawyers, and religious leaders. NYU Langone’s Voice Center provides a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to treating dysphagia , which is difficulty swallowing. Our swallowing specialists evaluate many swallowing-related problems on an outpatient basis. An evaluation at the center might include clinical examination, flexible endoscopic evaluation of swallowing, or a videofluoroscopic swallow study, followed by swallowing therapy. If your condition requires surgical care , our physicians are experts in conventional and novel approaches to surgery. Community Events The Voice Center hosts community events and classes throughout the year. For more information about our upcoming programs, please call 646-754-8642 VoiceCenter@NYULangone.org Our specialists provide evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment for a wide range of conditions that affect swallowing and the sound and quality of the voice. Aaron M. Johnson Co-Director Matina Balou Speech Pathologist Natalie Chiappetta SLP Shirley Gherson Paul E. Kwak Media Inquiries If you are a member of the press who would like to arrange an interview or learn more about the Voice Center, please contact media relations. Contact Media Relations Our Neurofibromatosis Specialists After your first visit at NYU Langone’s , our experts work with you and your family to create an individualized treatment plan. You may be referred to specialists within NYU Langone, all of whom possess the same passion for the care of individuals and families affected by NF and schwannomatosis. Learn more about our team of neurofibromatosis experts. Neurology Dr. Allan E. Rubenstein Dr. Kaleb H. Yohay Dr. John Golfinos Dr. Chandra Sen Dr. David Harter Otolaryngology Dr. Sean O. McMenomey Dr. J. Thomas Roland Jr. Genetics Dr. John Pappas Dr. Sheel Sharma To make an appointment, please call 212-263-1260. CTEPH Care Our team of specialists has extensive experience diagnosing and managing chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), a rare but potentially life-threatening condition that can develop after , which is a blood clot of the arteries in the lungs. We provide expert and thorough , including medical, interventional, and surgical therapy that we personalize to each patient. The CTEPH program is led by Roxana Sulica, MD , a nationally recognized pulmonologist with decades of pulmonary hypertension experience who is director of the NYU Langone Pulmonary Hypertension Program, and Justin C. Chan, MD , who has extensive expertise in pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, a highly specialized surgery and effective treatment for the condition. Our team of doctors includes highly trained pulmonologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, interventional and heart failure cardiologists, chest radiologists, and vascular interventional radiologists, and intensive and critical care specialists. We work closely with you to diagnose and manage CTEPH with a care plan tailored to your medical needs. Physical therapists specializing in pulmonary may also be a part of your care plan. Scientific investigation is also an important part of our CTEPH Program. We collaborate with international CTEPH experts on research to advance our understanding of the condition and to improve treatment options. What Causes CTEPH? CTEPH is a rare form of pulmonary hypertension, which is elevated blood pressure in the lungs. The condition occurs when blood vessels in the lung have been blocked by a clot for a long time. The clots that trigger CTEPH often form elsewhere, most commonly in the leg, a condition known as . A clot in the leg can travel to the heart and lung and become lodged in the lung vessels. This is known as a pulmonary embolism. A clot can also form from within the lung: this