glioma Optic nerve edema Optic neuritis Optic neuropathy Orbit tumor Orbital fracture Orbital pseudotumor Orbital tumor Orchiectomy Organizational skills Oropharyngeal cancer Our approach to Oropharyngeal Cancer Orthopedic implant failure Orthostatic hypotension Osgood-schlatter disease Osteitis pubis Osteoarthritis of spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Hip Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Knee Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder Osteochondritis dissecans Osteoid osteoma Our approach to Osteonecrosis Osteopenia Osteoporosis & low bone mass Our approach to Osteoporosis & Low Bone Mass Otosclerosis Our approach to Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cyst Ovarian failure Ovarian insufficiency Ovarian tumor Overactive bladder Pain in lumbar spine Pain in the arms Pain in the ear Pain trigger point Painful leg and moving toes syndrome Pancoast tumor Our approach to Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic cyst Pancreatic disease Pancreatic mass Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor Pancreatic stone Pancreatic tumor Our approach to Pancreatitis Pancytopenia Panic disorder Panniculitis Papillary thyroid cancer Papilledema Paradoxical vocal fold movement (pvfm) Paraesophageal hernia Paraganglioma Paranasal sinus disease Paraneoplastic neurological syndrome Parasitic disease Parasomnia Parathyroid adenoma Parathyroid disease Our approach to Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Parkinsonism Parkinson's disease Our approach to Parkinson’s Disease Parotid disease Parotid tumor Patella fractures Our approach to Patella Fractures Patent ductus arteriosus Pectus carinatum Pectus excavatum Pelvic congestion syndrome Pelvic infection Pelvic inflammation Pelvic ligament injury Pelvic mass Our approach to Pelvic Organ Prolapse Our approach to Pelvic Pain Pemphigus Penile adhesions, skin bridges Penile curvature Penile prosthesis Peptic ulcer disease Pericardial disease Pericardial effusion Perimenopause Perinatal depression in mother Periodic fever syndrome Periodic limb movement disorder Peripheral nerve injury Peripheral nervous system tumor Peripheral neuropathy Our approach to Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral vascular disease Peritoneal cancer Personality disorder Pervasive developmental disorder Pessary problems Petit mal seizure Peyronie's disease Phantom limb pain Pharyngeal tumor Pheochromocytoma Phimosis Phobia Our approach to Anxiety Disorders in Children Photosensitivity Physiological shock Pigmentation disorder Pilar cyst Pilocytic astrocytoma Pilonidal cyst Pineal tumor Piriformis syndrome Pituitary adenoma Pituitary apoplexy Pituitary disorder Our approach to Pituitary Tumors Plagiocephaly Our approach to Plantar Fasciitis Plantar pain Platelet disorder Pleomorphic adenoma Pleural disease Pleural effusion Plexiform neurofibroma Pneumothorax Polycystic kidney disease Polycystic ovary syndrome Our approach to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Polycythemia vera Polygenic hypercholesterolemia Polymyalgia rheumatica Polymyositis Polyneuropathy Pompe disease Popliteal entrapment syndrome Portal hypertension Portal vein thrombosis Post concussion syndrome Post thoracotomy pain Post-mastectomy lymphedema Post-mastectomy pain Post-polio syndrome Post-traumatic headache Our approach to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Posterior cortical atrophy Posterior tibial tendon dysfunction Posterior urethral valves/anterior urethral valves Postherpetic neuralgia Postmenopausal bleeding Postnasal drip Postpartum depression Postpartum incontinence Postpartum thyroiditis Postprandial distress syndrome Pouch failure Pouchitis Prader-willi syndrome Preauricular pit Precocious puberty Prediabetes Our approach to Pregnancy Pregnancy induced diabetes Preleukemia Premature birth Premature menopause Premenopause Premenstrual dysphoric disorder Prenatal hydronephrosis Presbyopia Pressure injury Our approach to Preterm Labor Primary aldosteronism Primary amenorrhea Primary biliary cholangitis (pbc) Primary ciliary dyskinesia Primary exertional headache Primary hypogonadism Primary sclerosing cholangitis Primary stabbing headache Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet) Prion disease Proctitis Progressive supranuclear palsy Prolactin disorder Prolactinoma Pronator syndrome Prostate cancer screening Prostate diseases Prostate inflammation Prostate problems Prosthesis Pseudoachondroplasia Pseudofolliculitis barbae Pseudogout Pseudotumor cerebri Our approach to Psoriasis Our approach to Psoriatic Arthritis Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures Pterygium Ptosis Our approach to Ptosis Pudendal nerve injury Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis Pulmonary atresia Our approach to Pulmonary Embolism Pulmonary hypertension Congenital Heart Defects in Children Hypertension in Children Pulmonary sling Pulmonary stenosis Pulmonary valve regurgitation Pulmonary vein stenosis Pyelectasis Pyloric stenosis Quadriceps tendinitis Radial tunnel syndrome Radiation fibrosis Radiation injury Radiation injury specific to the jaw Radicular pain Radiculitis Radiofrequency ablation Ranula Rapid heartbeat Raynaud's disease Reactive arthritis Rectal bleeding Rectourethral fistula Rectovaginal fistula Recurrent hernia Recurrent infection Our approach to Recurrent Miscarriage Recurrent pregnancy loss Recurrent prostate cancer Recurrent urinary tract infection Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome Refractive error Our approach to Refractive Error Relapsing polychondritis Relationship problems Rem sleep behavior disorder Renal aml Renal artery stenosis Our approach to Renal Artery Stenosis Renal cell carcinoma Our approach to Kidney Cancer Renal mass Renal tubular disorder Our approach to Renal Tubular Disorders in Children Renal vascular disorder Respiratory papilloma Respiratory tract disease Respiratory tract infection Restless leg syndrome Restrictive lung disease Retinal artery occlusion Retinal detachment Our approach to Retinal Detachment Retinal drug toxicity Retinal tear Retinal vasculitis Retinal vein occlusion Retinitis pigmentosa Our approach to Retinoblastoma in Children Retinopathy Retroperitoneal sarcoma Rett syndrome Rhabdomyosarcoma Rheumatic heart disease Rheumatism Our approach to Rheumatoid Arthritis Rhinitis Rhinosinusitis Rickets Rolandic epilepsy Rosacea Our approach to Rosacea Rotator cuff syndrome Sacroiliac joint pain Sacroiliac sprain Sacroiliitis Salivary adenocarcinoma Salivary gland disease Salivary gland tumor Salivary stone Salmonella infection Our approach to Sarcoidosis Sarcoidosis arthritis Scaphoid fracture Scaphoid nonunion fracture Scar Scars & keloids Our approach to Scars & Keloids Schatzki ring Our approach to Schizophrenia School refusal Schwannoma (growth) of head or neck Sciatica Scleroderma Scleroderma esophagus Scoliosis & kyphosis Our approach to Scoliosis & Kyphosis Scoliosis in children Seborrheic dermatitis Secondary amenorrhea Secondary liver cancer Seizure Selective mutism Sensorineural hearing loss Separation anxiety Sepsis Our approach to Sepsis in Children Septic arthritis Septic shock Sesamoiditis Severe and complex trauma of an upper extremity Sexual health Sexually transmitted disease Sharp nerve pain Shift work sleep disorder Shingles Short bowel syndrome Short stature Shoulder & elbow fractures Our approach to Shoulder & Elbow Fractures Shoulder bursitis Our approach to Shoulder Dislocation Shoulder impingement syndrome Shoulder injury Shoulder labral tear Our approach to Shoulder Labral Tears Shoulder pain Shoulder slap tear Shoulder sprains & strains Our approach to Shoulder Sprains & Strains Shoulder tendinitis Shy-drager syndrome Sicca syndrome Sickle cell anemia Our approach to Sickle Cell Disease in Children Sickle cell retinopathy Sigmoid tumor Silent thyroiditis Single ventricle Sinus infection Situs ambiguus Sixth nerve palsy Sjögren's syndrome Our approach to Sjogren's Syndrome Skeletal dysplasia Skene's glands cyst Skin cancer Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers Skin cancer of head or neck Skin disease Skin lesion Skull abnormality Skull base tumor Our approach to Skull Base Tumors Sleep arousal disorder Sleep deprivation Sleep disorder Sleep related movement disorder Sleep start Sleeplessness Sleepwalking Slipped capital femoral epiphysis Small bowel obstruction Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (sibo) Small intestinal dysmotility Small intestine disease Small intestine tumor Small mass of the lung Smell disorder Snoring Social anxiety disorder Soft tissue mass Soft tissue sarcoma in adults Our approach to Soft Tissue Sarcoma Soft tissue sarcoma of head or neck Solid tumor Solitary fibrous tumor Spasmodic torticollis Spasticity Speech disorder Speech impairment Spermatocele Spider vein Spigelian hernia Spinal arthritis Spinal cord compression Spinal cord disease Spinal cord injury Spinal cord tumor Spinal deformity Spinal injury Spinal muscular atrophy Spinal neurofibromas Our approach to Spinal Stenosis Spinal stenosis of thoracic region Spindle cell sarcoma Spine compression fractures Our approach to Spine Compression Fractures Spine fracture Spine infection Spine metastases Spine pain Spinocerebellar ataxia Spleen cyst Spleen disorder Spleen injury Spleen mass Spondyloarthropathy Our approach to Spondylolisthesis Our approach to Spondylolysis Spondylosis Sports concussion Sports hernia Sports injury Sprain Sprained finger Squamous cell cancer of head or neck Staghorn calculus Staphylococcal infections Our approach to Staphylococcal Infections Stargardt disease Status epilepticus Steatohepatitis Stereotypic movement disorder Stiff person syndrome Our approach to Stomach Cancer Stomach disease Stomach polyp Stomach tumor Stomach ulcer Strep throat Stress Our approach to Stress Fractures Striato-nigral degeneration Our approach to Stridor Our approach to Stroke Structural disorder of heart Sturge weber syndrome Stye Our approach to Stye Subacromial bursitis Subacute thyroiditis Subaortic stenosis Subarachnoid hemorrhage Subdural bleeding Submandibular gland tumor Sudden deafness Sudden loss of vision Supraglottic cancer Our approach to Supraventricular Arrhythmias Swallowing aspiration Swallowing difficulty Our approach to Congenital Airway Abnormalities Swelling lymph nodes Swimmer's ear Swollen leg Synovial cyst Synovial sarcoma Syringomyelia Syrinx Our approach to Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Tailbone fracture Tardive dyskinesia Tarsal coalition Temporal arteritis Temporary vision loss Temporomandibular disorders Temporomandibular joint pain Tendon injury Tendon rupture Tension headache Our approach to Testicular Cancer Testicular inflammation Testosterone disorder Tethered cord syndrome Tethered spinal cord/ lipomeningocele Tetralogy of fallot Tetralogy of Fallot in Children Tfcc tears Thalassemia Thigh pain Third nerve palsy Thoracic aortic aneurysm Thoracic cancer Thoracic disc prolapse Thoracic disease Thoracic insufficiency syndrome Our approach to Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Thoracoabdominal aneurysm Thrombocytopenia Thromboembolism Thrombosis Thumb cmc/basal joint arthiritis Thymoma Thymus cancer Thyroglossal duct cyst Thyroid cancer Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Thyroid cancer lymphoma Thyroid disorder Graves’ Disease in Children Thyroid eye disease Thyroid mass Thyroid nodule Thyroid tumor Thyroiditis Tibial torsion Tic disorder Tingling Our approach to Tinnitus Tnf receptor-associated periodic fever syndrome Toeing-in Tongue cancer Tongue tie Tongue tumor Tonsil cancer Tonsil hypertrophy Tonsil stones Tonsillitis Torn rotator cuff Our approach to Torn Rotator Cuff Tourette disorder Our approach to Tourette Disorder Tracheal cancer Tracheal damage Tracheal stenosis Stridor in Children Transient ischemic attack Transitional cell carcinoma Transposition of great vessels Transverse myelitis Traumatic fracture Traumatic stress disorder Our approach to Traumatic Stress in Children Travel-related infections Our approach to Travel-Related Infections Tremor (any type) Triangular fibrocartilaginous complex tear Triceps injuries Triceps tendinitis Triceps tendon rupture Trichiasis Trichotillomania Tricuspid atresia Tricuspid valve disease Tricuspid valve insufficiency Our approach to Trigeminal Neuralgia Trigger finger Trophoblastic disease Truncus arteriosus Our approach to Tuberculosis Tuberous sclerosis Tumor of throat or palate Turner syndrome Type 1 diabetes mellitus Our approach to Type 2 Diabetes Ulcer disease, gastrointestinal Our approach to Ulcerative Colitis in Children Ulnar collateral ligament tear Our approach to Ulnar Nerve Compression Umbilical hernia Undescended testicle Our approach to Undescended Testicles in Children Unexplained visual loss Unspecified brain disease Upper airway resistance syndrome Upper tract urothelial cancer Ureter cancer Ureteral fistula Ureteral obstruction Ureteral stenosis Our approach to Ureteral Stricture Ureteral vaginal fistula Ureterocele Ureteropelvic junction (upj) obstruction Urethral cancer Urethral diverticulectomy Urethral fistula Urethral prolapse Urethral stricture Our approach to Urethral Stricture Urgency and frequency of urination Urinary diversion Urinary tract cancer Our approach to Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract obstruction: prenatal and postnatal Urolithiasis Urothelial cancer Uterine cancer Uterine sarcoma Uveitis Vaginal abnormalities Vaginal adhesions Vaginal atrophy Vaginal birth after cesarean Our approach to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean Vaginal bleeding Our approach to Vaginal Cancer Vaginal cyst Vaginal infection Vaginal problems Vaginal septum Vaginitis Valvular heart disease Varices, gastrointestinal Varicocele Our approach to Varicose Veins Vascular anomalies Vascular disease Vascular lesions Vascular malformations in the torso & limbs Our approach to Vascular Malformations in the Torso & Limbs Vascular/venous malformation of head or neck Vascular, bony, and soft tissue injuries to the upper extremities Our approach to Vasculitis Velopharyngeal insufficiency Veno-occlusive disease Venous disease Venous insufficiency Venous malformation Ventral hernia Our approach to Ventricular Arrhythmias Ventricular septal defect Ventricular tachycardia Vertebral foraminal stenosis Vertical talus Our approach to Vertigo Vesicoureteral reflux Vesicovaginal fistula Vestibular diseases Vestibular migraine Vestibular neuritis Vexas syndrome Viral infection Visual field defect Vitamin b12 deficiency Vitamin d deficiency Vitiligo Our approach to Vitiligo Vitreomacular traction Vocal cord cancer Vocal cord cyst or nodule Vocal cord inflammation Vocal cord papilloma / laryngeal papilloma Vocal cord paralysis Vocal cord polyp Vocal fatigue Voice changes Voice disorder Voice loss Von hippel landau with neurological involvement Von willebrand disease Vulvar disease Vulvodynia Wart Watery eye Weakness Weight loss Whiplash White blood cell disorders Our approach to Wilms Tumor in Children Wilson's disease Winged scapula Wolfram syndrome Wrinkles and fine lines Wrist & hand repetitive use injuries Our approach to Wrist & Hand Repetitive Use Injuries Wrist arthritis Wrist bursitis Wrist fracture Wrist injury Wrist pain Wrist sprain Wrist tendinitis Wry neck Y Yeast infection Z Zenker's diverticulum Zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) Jump to conditions starting with: Has conditions beginning with this letter. No conditions beginning with this letter. The NYU Langone Health app puts the highest-quality care in your hands, making the entire experience of accessing your medical records, scheduling appointments, and contacting your care team seamless. With the app, it’s easier and faster to manage care for you and your family. It keeps all of your health information in one place, and you can quickly connect with your care team. Download the NYU Langone Health app on the Simply log in with your —creating one takes just minutes—and you’ll have the expertise of NYU Langone’s specialists in your pocket, whenever you need them. If you don’t yet have a MyChart account, you can Your Convenient Care Connection When it comes to your health, having the right support makes all the difference. With the NYU Langone Health app, everything you need for a smooth and successful care journey is just a tap away. From the home screen, it’s simple to: schedule or change your appointments view your test results and clinical notes message with your care team see your medications Plus, the app gives you convenient tools to: see your full electronic health record manage bill payments manage care for others share information with other providers These tools are easy to find and use, deliver important updates as soon as possible, and keep you informed and ready for what’s next. Need to make an NYU Langone Health appointment? Whether you’re seeing a new doctor or coming for a check-up with your current provider, the app’s scheduling feature makes it simple to pick the date and time that works for you. VIDEO: Learn how to use the app to schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone provider. Find a Doctor Through the App With the NYU Langone Health app, finding the right doctor is easier than ever. You can conveniently search more than 4,000 providers by specialty, location, and insurance coverage, and in just a few taps select the best match for your needs. VIDEO: You can use the NYU Langone Health app to easily find a primary care doctor, specialist, or other healthcare provider. Support at Every Step The NYU Langone Health app ensures that you get the most helpful guidance throughout your care experience. You’ll receive ongoing personalized assistance, including videos and instructions to help you prepare and recover, important tasks and key reminders to stay on track, and more. You’ll know what to expect, stress less, and have help by your side. From testing and diagnosis through treatment and recovery, you’ll know what to expect, stress less, and always have help by your side. VIDEO: The NYU Langone Health app helps you manage your care with useful tools at every step of the way. Virtual Urgent Care: Skip the Waiting Room Sore throat? UTI? Mystery rash? Child running a fever? Same-day treatment for many non-emergency conditions is now available with a video visit. You’ll be connected with an NYU Langone Health provider for a convenient consultation using your mobile device, to receive a diagnosis, guidance on treatment, and follow-up instructions. It’s an invaluable option that’s easy to access whenever you need—right in your app. VIDEO: When you need same-day care for a non-emergency condition, NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care has you covered. Shared Access: Simple and Secure If you’d like to share your MyChart medical information with a loved one—or receive access to your child’s health record—the app makes it simple. With the Friends and Family Access feature, you can decide whether to give each person full or limited access. You can also request your children’s health records if they’re 11 years old or younger. At age 12, your children can easily grant you access. Plus, the app lets you temporarily share your medical information with any healthcare providers who need it. You always have control over your private information, how much you share, and who sees it. Stay In the Know, On the Go With the NYU Langone Health app, you’re connected to everything you need, anywhere you are. It’s the most convenient way to manage your care, be in touch with your care team, feel prepared at every step, and stay well-supported throughout your health journey. Apps 1138548_RR00100829 Program Coordinator – MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund Job ID: 1138548_RR00100829 Shift: 9am-5pm TOV – Operations (S324) The Program Coordinator position is part of the NYU Langone Health and New York University’s Technology, Opportunities & Ventures (TOV) team. TOV is dedicated to accelerating the commercialization of breakthrough innovations in healthcare by translating cutting-edge research into real-world applications. TOV supports the development of novel technologies across a wide range of areas, including medical devices, digital health, diagnostics, and therapeutics. The ideal candidate is highly organized and experienced with strong project management skills and excellent communication abilities to ensure the successful execution of these initiatives. The Program Coordinator will play a key role in overseeing the operational aspects of the NYULH MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund, helping to advance MedTech innovations from concept through prototyping, testing, and validation. The ideal candidate will be highly organized, skilled in project management, and able to handle multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring they are completed on time and within scope. Strong written and verbal communication skills are essential to collaborate effectively with cross-functional teams, stakeholders, and external partners. Program Coordination & Administration: Oversee planning coordination and execution of internally awarded projects with internal and external stakeholders Organize and manage all project activities from initiation to completion ensuring timely delivery and alignment with project goals Develop and manage detailed project schedules track milestones and ensure efficient execution Handle purchase requisitions reimbursements expense reports and invoice payments in accordance with project budgets and NYULH policies Collaborate with TOV internal teams to establish project budgets before any work begins ensuring that financial requirements are met Track project spending throughout the lifecycle ensuring adherence to approved budgets and timelines Regular budget status updates identify potential overruns and implement corrective actions as needed Continuously assess and recommend improvements to program workflows and budgeting processes to optimize efficiency and reduce cycle times Work with the TOV team to streamline processes and implement best practices to improve overall program performance Proposal & Award Management: Support outreach to the NYULH research and clinical community to solicit project proposals for MVP funding Assist in the review evaluation and selection of funded proposals Manage documentation and paperwork for internal and external grants ensuring compliance with submission guidelines Provide operational support for new MedTech programs including digital health innovation accelerators and MedTech incubation programs Collaborate with internal teams stakeholders and external partners to ensure smooth project setup and execution Monitor project progress ensuring timelines milestones and deliverables are met Identify potential issues early and collaborate with stakeholders to resolve them ensuring projects remain on track and within scope Prepare and review status/progress reports presentations and formal correspondence for ongoing projects Summarize key findings metrics and deviations from the plan in clear comprehensive reports Respond to routine inquiries escalate non routine matters and ensure compliance with relevant policies and procedures CRO Management & Contracting: Identify engage and work with Contract Research Organizations CROs to obtain quotes and support MVP projects Participate in the assessment selection and contracting of CROs Monitor CRO performance review deliverables and ensure adherence to project specifications Facilitate the close out of contracts with CROs at project completion NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements The salary range for the role is 58 000 64 000 annually Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors including experience specialty education and business need The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in business administration, health care administration or related field or an equivalent combination of education and relevant experience. Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint and Outlook. Familiar with Internet applications. Effective oral, written, communication, interpersonal skills. Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and must work and communicate effectively with both internal and external customers. Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently. Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure. Ability to Project/Program manage and to multi task while paying attention to details. referred Qualifications: MS, PhD or comparable degree in a relevant field of sciences required. Two or more years of experience in research or R&D in the medtech field. Experience in participation and project management in R&D collaborations. Excellent organizational and communication skills (written and verbal). Strong inter-personal skills and ability to work on collaborative projects. Intellectual curiosity and ability to rapidly acquire an understanding across multiple biomedical disciplines. Energetic, self-starter and strong problem solving skills. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350 – $64,350 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1129962_RR00092837 Job ID: 1129962_RR00092837 Shift: 7PM – 8AM, 3 days a week (variable) Department: Polysomnography, NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy (H1755) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist II. In this role, the successful candidate Using general supervision of the Director, will show significant expertise in performing all aspects of Polysomnography for both clinical and research patients. At this level, the technologist should be familiar with commonly used drugs to manage sleep disorders. Recognize interactions which could have an adverse effect on the patient and bring this information to the appropriate M.D. or Ph.D. Have a good working knowledge of sleep hygiene techniques in order to augment and re-enforce recommendations made at the initial consultation. Recognize and diagnose apneas when performing NPSG. On an appointment basis, technologist will perform mask fittings in order to optimize patient satisfaction with the CPAP machine. Technologist will write and adapt protocols as needed, score, train staff on new equipment, and transfer data to the optical disk storage system Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Collect, analyze, and integrate patient information in order to identify and meet the patient-specific needs (physical/mental limitations, current emotional/physiological status regarding the testing procedure, pertinent medical/social history), and to determine final testing parameters/procedures in conjunction with the ordering physician or clinical director and laboratory protocols. Complete and verify documentation. Explain pre-testing, testing, and post-testing procedures to the patient. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine and complex equipment care and maintenance. Evaluate sleep study related equipment and inventory. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Demonstrate the ability to analyze complex situations and apply policy. Comply with the BRPT Standards of Conduct. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Score sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Score clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals etc.) according to center specific protocols. Generate accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Oversees and performs difficult and unusual procedures and therapeutic interventions. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP, oxygen titration etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform Polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments if necessary. Perform positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. To qualify you must have a (1) NYS OP License and current registration as a Polysomnographic Technologist, OR, (2) NYS OP License and current registration as a Registered Respiratory Therapy competent to perform Polysomnographic Technology services. 5 years experience in field of Polysomnography None NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $89,273.58 – $90,313.57 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. You can help give the gift of life by choosing to become an organ or tissue donor. One organ donor can help save up to eight lives, and one tissue donation can save or improve the lives of more than 75 people. The decision to become an organ or tissue donor does not interfere with the healthcare you receive—saving your life is your NYU Langone doctor’s first priority. VIDEO: More than 8,000 people in the New York City metro area are currently on the organ transplant waitlist. Our Transplant Institute is committed to helping those in need of a new heart, liver, kidney, or lungs. All people can be considered as potential organ, tissue, and eye donors at the time of death. Organs and tissues are distributed through federally or state-authorized organ and tissue banks, and donating your organs does not cost your family any money. Enroll Online Donate Life national registry is a confidential, online database that records a person’s own legal consent to organ, tissue, and eye donation upon his or her death. If you live in New York State, More Information about Organ and Tissue Donation LiveOnNY , a nonprofit organization dedicated to the recovery of organs and tissue for transplant in the greater New York metropolitan area, offers resources to learn more about donation. For information about organ transplantation at NYU Langone, learn more about our 1137701_RR00100405 Job ID: 1137701_RR00100405 Position Type: Part-Time Shift: 09:30 AM – 02:00 PM, Monday – Friday Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Physical Therapy – LI (W6147) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Rehabilitation Aide, Physical Therapy / Hospital. In this role, the successful candidate works as part of a team and under the direction of a supervising therapist to assist the professional staff at bedside or in the department in providing direct patient care that meets departmental patient care objectives and needs. Maintains the department and equipment in a clean and orderly state.. Assists with executing limited direct patient care duties related to Physical and/or Occupational Therapy as directed by the supervising therapist Participates in maintaining the cleanliness of the department and adequate levels of departmental supplies Promotes and maintains patient safety via appropriate and safe guarding techniques proper body mechanics and equipment inspection Assists the supervising therapist with patient set up and preparation for treatment To qualify, you must have a High School or GED. Excellent communication both oral and written skills Current and valid BLS or CPR certification from the American Heart Association. 1 – 2 years Hospital Inpatient or Orthopedic Outpatient Rehabilitation setting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $23.16 – $25.20 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138441_RR00100684 Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138441_RR00100684 Shift: Tuesday-Saturday 10AM-6PM Rehab PT and OT (L177476) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for evaluating physical therapy needs and implementing comprehensive medically prescribed physical therapy treatment to assigned patients in a supervises program of rehabilitation OTHER: Maintains a professional appearance and demonstrates appropriate professionalism during job performance Performs other duties as assigned ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION: Initial Assessment and Evaluation of Physical Therapy needs for specifically assigned patient populations Reviews medical chart to ascertain important medical information and clarifies referral/Treatment orders if necessary for unfamiliar diagnosis Selects appropriate assessment tools and methods in order to accurately determine the patient s status for developing optimal treatment plan Demonstrates effective clinical decision making and implements changes/adaptations to the Treatment Plan when appropriate DOCUMENTATION: Completes all required documentation for patient care and reimbursement Completes and plans all required documentation in medical chart as required by Department guidelines and JACHO/CARF requirements Clinical Documentation is through and completes using appropriate medical and clinical terminology Accurately records all treatment given including completion of the daily treatment record EDUCATION AND SUPERVISION: Participates in Clinical Education of Fieldwork students and other professional educational endeavors Teaches and supervises assigned students in the appropriate techniques skills and procedures Demonstrates a genuine interest in assisting students in enhancing their knowledge and skill levels Encourages positive learning experiences for Career Opportunity Students and other Non Fieldwork students PATIENT PROGRESS: Evaluates patient s progress and response to therapy and modifies treatment intervention as needed INTERVENTIONS: Implements Treatment Plans and Protocol according to current professional and health system standards Establishes achievable and appropriate treatment goals with patient and family Considers a variety of validated treatment approaches and rationales for achievement of patient goals Selects appropriate technical aids/assistive devices and correctly refers patients to other clinical services to achieve stated program/team treatment goals Assesses educational needs of patient families and implements a variety of methods for patient/family education and training during rehabilitation process To qualify you must have a Bachelor s Degree in Physical Therapy New York State Physical Therapy License or temporary permit Good communication and interpersonal skills 0 1 years experience as a Physical Therapist New York State License in Physical Therapy CPR certification. Phys Thrpst Temp Permit-NYS, Phys Thrpst License-NYS Master s Degree in Physical Therapy or related field Language skills in addition to English preferred Computer data entry skills 1138605_RR00100820 Job ID: 1138605_RR00100820 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift (37.5 Hours) Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property check list and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal