to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment. When people have real diseases that need a real evaluation, making sure that you’re working with a center that really can offer top-of-the-line care and expert diagnostics as well as treatment options—there’s really no substitute for that. Endocrinology, Thyroid Disorders Steven Hodak, MD, is a professor of medicine in the Holman Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism, and co-director of NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program. He specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid nodules and cancer. He has pioneered advanced molecular methods to identify genetic indicators in cancer cells. Physician Resources At NYU Langone Health, our doctors and researchers participate in hundreds of clinical trials and research studies with the aim of translating findings into new, more effective treatments. Search our up-to-date registry to see if one of our current trials or studies meets the needs of your patient. Search Clinical Trials and Research Patient Transfers NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Transfer Center provides a single point of contact for referring physicians to transfer adult patients to and within NYU Langone’s inpatient locations, including Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and helps facilitate direct admissions. To initiate a transfer, contact us at the numbers provided Schools of Medicine Our two distinct but related medical schools provide full-tuition scholarships to students enrolled in its MD degree programs—regardless of need or merit—to help address the nationwide physician shortage and student debt burden, as well as cultivate diversity and inclusion. The schools are distinct yet related entities of both NYU Langone Health and New York University. NYU Langone also is affiliated with NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull in Brooklyn, NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue and NYC Health + Hospitals/Gouverneur in Manhattan, and the VA NY Harbor Healthcare System. NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. Students have the opportunity to pursue a number of accelerated and dual-degree pathways. NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, on the campus of NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, offers an innovative, accelerated three-year curriculum exclusively devoted to training primary care physicians and developing leaders in health care systems. Graduate medical programs are available in more than 20 specialties. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides the highest standard of continuing medical education (CME). Our courses—including virtual live activities, regularly scheduled series, and enduring materials—are developed and taught by leaders in medicine from NYU Langone Health and around the country. Search for upcoming events or join our CME email list Through the graduate medical education training programs at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, residents and fellows work with some of the leading physician-educators in the world while caring for a diverse patient population. Learn about training opportunities at Opportunities to Join Our Diverse Community Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. NYU Langone Health recently created the new Institute for Excellence in Health Equity designed to advance the mission of health equity across the entire health system. We strive to build a culture of inclusivity by facilitating and enabling recruitment, training, and mentorship of individuals who are underrepresented in medicine, including medical students, physicians, scientists, and faculty. Explore current faculty opportunities Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System From left: Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN, Emeline M. Aviki, MD, and Rosemary Semler, RN. Source: NYU Langone Health The NYU Langone Oncofertility Program offers standard and novel treatments and prioritizes easy access to care. Under new protocols, oncofertility services are available to every patient with cancer, and any provider in the NYU Langone system—including nurses and physician assistants—can refer patients to a team of dedicated fertility nurse navigators. The program has performed the system’s first uterine transposition surgery and the first ovarian tissue cryopreservation. Although infertility is a common effect of many cancer therapies, only a small minority of patients take advantage of technologies available to preserve fertility before or during treatment. Studies point to numerous barriers preventing patients from seeking such care, including lack of awareness, the high cost of many fertility-preservation procedures, insufficient time to act due to an urgent diagnosis, and patients’ or providers’ discomfort with discussing reproductive issues. NYU Langone Health is addressing these obstacles with a new program that prioritizes easy access to care. Launched in February 2024, the Oncofertility Program at offers a comprehensive range of fertility counseling, education, and treatment options—including novel techniques such as uterine transposition and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. In addition to its clinical robustness, what sets the program apart is its proactive approach: Under a groundbreaking protocol, every patient treated for cancer at NYU Langone is given the opportunity to receive oncofertility services through a team of dedicated nurse navigators. And any provider who interacts with the patient can set the process in motion. “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment, including having children if they wish to do so,” says gynecologic oncologist , the program’s physician sponsor. “Our goal is to ensure that every patient with cancer who is treated at NYU Langone has seamless access to both standard of care and the most cutting-edge methods for fertility preservation.” Casting a Broad Net Dr. Aviki joined NYU Langone in 2023 from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), where she had participated in a similar program. Although the NYU Langone has long offered egg freezing under the direction of reproductive endocrinologist and infertility specialists Elizabeth Fino, MD , in Manhattan, and Linda Sung, MD , in Long Island, Dr. Aviki set out to increase access and participation while expanding specialized services to patients across the health system. She recruited Rosemary Semler, RN, a veteran oncology nurse who had led MSKCC’s program, to direct the initiative. Oncologist Abraham Chachoua, MD , played a key role in championing the program and securing philanthropic support from NYU Langone’s , where he is director. Based at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, the team’s vision emphasizes making the program accessible at all NYU Langone locations. Physicians, nurses, and other providers are offered a new protocol: all patients diagnosed with cancer or a high-risk genetic mutation, or who express the desire to discuss family-building options posttreatment, should be asked if they would like to receive fertility-preservation counseling. If so, they can be referred to one of the program’s two nurse navigators—Semler and Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN—through an Epic order set. “Anyone can put in the referral,” says Semler. For example, chemotherapy nurses are encouraged to ask if fertility has been discussed before administering medication for the first time. “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship if they hadn’t been given the opportunity to discuss their wishes around this issue.” “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship.” Rosemary Semler, RN A consult can be arranged within 24 hours—or more quickly, if necessary. “We have arrangements with sperm banks where patients can collect right away so there is no significant delay in the administration of chemotherapy,” Semler adds. Offering Expert Advice and Cutting-Edge Care During a counseling session, navigators discuss the fertility-specific effects of prescribed cancer treatment and a patient’s options for fertility preservation. They can then provide referrals to the appropriate services at NYU Langone. These include not only established approaches such as sperm banking and egg retrieval, but also cutting-edge techniques that are available at few other medical centers worldwide. Recently, for example, Dr. Aviki and her colleague, , performed a pioneering uterine transposition surgery—a procedure that had previously been completed fewer than a dozen times in the United States, she says. This surgery, which involves temporarily relocating the uterus to the upper abdominal wall to avoid damage during pelvic radiation, can preserve both fertility and hormonal function. Similarly, ovarian tissue cryopreservation—in which tissue that holds the eggs is surgically removed and frozen before cancer treatment, and then reimplanted—enables restoration of premenopausal status as well as fertility in women who have undergone high-dose chemotherapy. “This patient population includes girls in early adolescence,” says Dr. Aviki. “It’s a terrible thing when a young girl needs to start chemotherapy so urgently that there isn’t enough time to undergo egg retrieval. In those cases this novel procedure is her only option to preserve fertility, and we are proud to offer it.” “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding.” The Oncofertility Program provides coordination across the cancer care team for patients seeking fertility preservation. It also orchestrates logistically challenging procedures such as inpatient sperm banking and facilitates communication between patients and caregivers. “Teenage boys may find it difficult to talk about ejaculation with a parent or physician,” Semler notes. “It’s often less stressful for them to talk over the phone with a nurse navigator who can explain the risk that treatment poses to their fertility and how to preserve sperm.” Helping Patients Afford Treatment Another key function of the program is to provide resources for patients facing the financial challenges posed by fertility-preservation procedures, which are rarely covered by insurance. In selecting partners to provide services such as egg freezing, the program sought out centers that would offer discounted rates. The program also partners with philanthropic organizations that offer help with costs, as well as arranging financial aid from NYU Langone for patients in need. “This work is a hopeful part of oncology practice,” Semler says. “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding. To help them have the life they always dreamed of is an amazing thing.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA, is a gynecologic oncologist and medical director of network integration and strategy for Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Her research interests center on financial toxicity in cancer care, the treatment of gynecologic cancers, and the advancement of fertility-sparing surgical techniques. Rosemary Semler, RN, is a clinical nurse specialist and director of the Oncofertility Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on improving cancer patients’ access to fertility preservation procedures. Latest in Obstetrics & Gynecology Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care New program targets complex and serious disorder through systematic imaging, early diagnosis, and enhanced care coordination. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care The inaugural director of midwifery services discusses responding to the growing demand for hospital-based midwifery care. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Dr. Justin Brandt shares insights on how to support transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health At its core, the highly interdisciplinary field of molecular oncology is pursuing an ambitious goal: revealing the complex chemical and biological factors driving the development and progression of individual cancers. The rapid arrival of advanced tools, however, is empowering researchers like Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD—a leading specialist in cancer instability, the biology of rare cancers, and BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumor suppressors—to tackle this monumental challenge. Recruited to serve as the inaugural director of the new Center for Molecular Oncology at NYU Langone Health’s , Dr. Ganesan will collaborate with molecular pathologists, clinician researchers, and other experts to integrate a new wealth of genomic data into detailed cancer profiles for every patient. Here, Dr. Ganesan discusses his vision for what molecular oncology can accomplish. What led you to focus on molecular oncology as a new tool for cancer care? Dr. Ganesan: My original work focused on breast cancer and understanding DNA repair. But over the past 12 years, I’ve also been focused on the important role of cancer genomics in understanding our classification and treatment of disease. Back in 2012, when I was at Rutgers Cancer Institute, we developed one of the earliest molecular tumor boards, in which we started to say “Let’s review all cancers together—adult and pediatric, hematological and solid—and understand them by asking, What are the changes that made these tumor cells in each of these settings different from normal cells?” The intent is both to classify them and ultimately to derive treatments for them. What kind of shift in the field is needed to accomplish that? My experience seeing a variety of cancers and understanding their genomic landscape has made me realize that a significant challenge in oncology is the lack of proper classification of our diseases. We have syndromes: lung cancer really is a large collection of diseases. Modern oncology doesn’t treat “lung cancer”: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments. “Modern oncology doesn’t treat ‘lung cancer’: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments.” Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD It really is a change in how we classify our diseases and understand their biology. We need to break them down from organ-based syndromes into specific diseases that have specific treatments. In oncology, our classification of disease is going to be supplemented by the molecular alterations that are present in individual tumors. How do you envision that new focus on molecular alterations shaping cancer care? We’re aiming to apply these novel genomic analyses up front for all our patients. We now have all the critical pieces of information and the ability to monitor disease. Pairing that with the great depth of scientific and clinical expertise of the NYU Langone system will allow us to use the tumor mutational profile to inform the diagnosis and treatment of every patient. Advanced technologies, such as whole-genome sequencing, are also helping us understand that tumors can have a far greater range of genomic alterations than what is detectable with our “standard” sequencing techniques. The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo. “The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo.” Let’s monitor the cancers both in early- and late-stage settings by cell-free DNA analysis to understand when a tumor is coming back and how the tumor is changing under treatment—first to learn about the cancer biology and then to develop more-effective treatments for these patients. That’s our hope. How can this effort transform cancer research as well? We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research. When we see patterns, can we then initiate clinical trials? When we detect novel alterations and new mechanisms of resistance, the basic and translational scientists can investigate these in the lab to determine their significance. If we see a novel alteration, we ask: Is this really causing the cancer? Is it targetable? Clinical researchers will help validate these insights, moving them from the lab to the patient. On top of that, we need to educate the next generation of oncologists, clinicians, and scientists on the value of these data and how to use them. My task will be to implement this with NYU Langone’s researchers and with commercial partners. I’m excited to get started, but it is a long game. “We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research.” Where is the field of molecular oncology heading? I think it’s exploding. The number of pathway-specific drugs is taking off, with more and more drugs targeting specific molecular alterations. Immunotherapy is another weapon in the armamentarium. And there’s now a focused effort to better understand why some patients’ cancers respond to therapies while others don’t, and to assess treatment response early. These molecular tools will be crucial in unraveling these questions: the initial molecular profile of a tumor provides insights into how it developed, which therapies it may respond to, how it might evolve under current treatments. And this knowledge can guide the development of better treatments. Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, is director of the Center for Molecular Oncology at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Stacy Loeb, MD (left). Source: NYU Langone Health Encouraged by prior research revealing a link between plant-based diets and improved prostate cancer outcomes, professor of urology , has led several recent studies reinforcing the benefits of diet in both mitigating cancer risk and enhancing overall health. These insights inspired her to pursue an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine. Here, Dr. Loeb shares her findings—and what she now tells patients about plant-based eating. Dr. Loeb, do you recall the specific study that inspired you to research plant-based diets in prostate cancer? Dr. Loeb: I read about an early randomized trial from 2005 showing that patients with prostate cancer who engaged in a lifestyle intervention—including a vegan diet, physical activity, and stress reduction—experienced less disease progression compared with those who did not. Given how often I treat prostate cancer, I began educating myself further in this area and found that the research was compelling. “I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them.” Though traditional medical school training has not placed sufficient emphasis on nutrition as a complementary therapeutic approach, the benefits of plant-based eating overall are well documented. I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them. My interest led me to obtain an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine in 2023. What are some of your own findings around plant-based diets and their benefits for patients with prostate cancer? We have found that a plant-based diet is associated with both a lower risk of developing aggressive forms of prostate cancer and a reduction in disease progression among those diagnosed with the condition. We use a plant-based diet index (PDI) to measure adherence to plant consumption, with positive marks for plant foods and negative marks for animal-derived foods. In these studies, males who consumed plant-based diets were found to have a 19 percent lower risk of diagnosis with fatal prostate cancer, while those scoring in the highest quintile of PDI had a 47 percent lower risk of progression. Examples of plant-based meal options include a veggie burger, tofu salad, and vegan curry. Source: Getty Images While those findings are encouraging enough, we’ve also found an association between plant-based eating with better quality of life among prostate cancer survivors. Among patients treated for prostate cancer, we reported higher quality-of-life scores for sexual function, urinary function, and hormonal vitality among those eating the most plant-based and the least animal-based food. In my own practice, I have seen patients experience weight loss, improve blood pressure control, and no longer needing medication for their erectile dysfunction or urinary symptoms after adopting a plant-based diet. What is your working theory of why a plant-based diet may be so beneficial in prostate cancer, specifically? We know on a basic level that plant-based diets are the source of beneficial components such as fiber and antioxidants while eliminating processed and red meats, which are classified as carcinogens by the World Health Organization. We also know that plant-based diets improve cardiovascular health . Erectile dysfunction is often found to be the “canary in the coal mine,” an early-warning sign of problems with the vascular system. In fact, a diagnosis of erectile dysfunction has been found to precede cardiovascular events by approximately five years in some patients. This connection is reinforced by our observations of better erectile function when patients with prostate cancer eat more plant-based food. Anything that can help improve cardiovascular health—diet included—will likely also benefit the vascular system throughout the body. How have your findings impacted the advice you give patients who are at risk for or have developed prostate cancer? Are patients receptive to your counsel when it comes to diet? This research has significantly influenced my approach to patient care. I now routinely emphasize the benefits of plant-based eating as part of a comprehensive management plan for prostate cancer. While I do point out that many of these studies are observational in nature, it’s also true that there’s no evidence of harm in adopting a plant-based diet; in fact, the opposite is true. Patients treated for early-stage prostate cancer are then most likely to die from cardiovascular disease , so a diet that supports heart health is a win all around. “When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help.” I find most patients are amenable to making this diet change. And many report positive outcomes. For instance, Gabe Canales Brian Jones , who have publicly shared their journeys, demonstrate how adopting a plant-based diet can have a profound impact on managing prostate cancer. When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help. The teachable moment here is to encourage patients to adopt healthy lifestyle changes that can improve their quality of life and overall health. Advanced imaging localizes recurrent disease and enables cryoablation to target prostate lesion with minimal side effects. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Advanced Imaging Enables Successful Salvage Partial Gland Cryoablation A man in his late 60s presented to at NYU Langone Health with radio-recurrent prostate cancer. In June 2008, doctors had diagnosed the patient with Gleason 4+4 prostate cancer and treated him five months later with intensity-modulated radiation therapy. Post-treatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monitoring in May 2013 showed a nadir of 0.3 ng/mL. By March 2019, however, his PSA had risen to 2.0 ng/mL with a doubling time of 8.2 months, raising concerns of disease recurrence. At NYU Langone, multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) and 18F-fluciclovine PET helped localize the lesion and rule out metastatic disease. After a discussion of treatment options, the patient selected a targeted salvage cryoablation procedure. A pretreatment transperineal prostate biopsy helped further characterize the extent of disease and demonstrated Gleason 4+5, Gleason grade 5, in the left lateral posterior, left posterior, and left medial posterior zones. “The management of radio-recurrent prostate cancer presents unique challenges and requires a tailored approach,” says urologic oncologist “Our use of MRI and targeted biopsy enabled precise localization of the disease recurrence. Localizing the cancer in this manner allowed the treatment to be directed to this region instead of the entire gland, minimizing side effects and procedure risk.” “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control.” In an ambulatory surgical suite, Dr. Wysock performed cryoablation via Endocare V-Probe cryoprobes advanced percutaneously into the prostate transperineally under ultrasound guidance. Post-ablation surveillance biopsies at six months and two years found no evidence of cancer in the ablation zone or remainder of the prostate; PSA and MRI monitoring have likewise shown no cancer over a four-year follow-up. The patient remains continent and intracorporeal injection therapy to treat his erectile dysfunction has yielded an adequate response. “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control,” Dr. Wysock says. James S. Wysock, MD, is an assistant professor of urology. In collaboration with Perlmutter Cancer Center, he develops advanced imaging techniques and treatment tools to optimize cancer diagnostics and therapy. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Anne S. Renteria, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed hematologist–oncologist Anne S. Renteria, MD , has joined NYU Langone Health as site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island . Dr. Renteria will leverage her extensive academic and industry experience to expand stem cell transplant and cellular immunotherapy services. Previously, Dr. Renteria served as medical director of the stem cell transplant and cellular immunology program at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, medical director of acute leukemia and stem cell transplant and cellular therapy programs at Rochester Regional Health, and senior medical director of Clinical Development at Forma Therapeutics, a Novo Nordisk company, leading the early clinical development of small molecules for the management of cancer. Here, she highlights the importance of local access to the latest advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies, shares how her research on treatment underuse and interruptions shapes her priorities, and spotlights a key challenge facing the field of hematology–oncology. What inspired you to accept a position at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? Dr. Renteria: I was drawn to the opportunity because Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is part of a hospital system that is recognized as being one of the best transplant centers in the world. I was also inspired by NYU Langone’s commitment to increasing patients’ access to care by expanding the size of its workforce. “It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care without having to leave their community.” With over 7.5 million people living there, Long Island is a busy place with a sizable patient population. Treatment for blood conditions can be an extensive, multistep process. It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care in leukemia, myeloma, lymphoma, and transplants, including clinical trials when necessary, without having to leave their community. Your research addresses barriers to care. Can you share more about this work and your research priorities at NYU Langone? Dr. Renteria It’s essential that diverse patient populations benefit from advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies. I was born in New York City, but I have lived in many different countries and speak English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French. I am very sensitive to the nuances of cultural differences and I want to help patients from different backgrounds access the care they need. “Age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study.” Multiple myeloma, for example, is a complex and costly disease to manage. The expansion of available therapeutic options has inspired optimism regarding disease-related survival. However, age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study Cancer Epidemiology , conducted with Nina Bickell, MD, MPH, and colleagues at Tisch Cancer Institute at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. In my clinical research at NYU Langone, I will collaborate with researchers to investigate how to increase access to care for minorities and how genetic and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) profile differences among ethnic groups affect transplant risks. Building on my expertise in industry, I am also working with NYU Langone scientists to tailor new treatment modalities in clinical development to specific patient populations, including minorities. There is also a need for older patients to have access to the best possible treatments with less toxicity. What are your top priorities as director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program ? As site director, my top priority is to work with my team to increase the armamentarium of specialized treatments patients have access to, including autologous and allogeneic transplant and CAR T-cell therapy. I will also focus on how we as a team, including social workers and nurse navigators, can help patients seamlessly navigate the treatment process, from the moment of their diagnosis through their transition to CAR T-cell transplant. Illustration of a T-cell (brown) attacking cancer cells (purple). Source: Getty Images I also want to create a survivorship program to help patients thrive during blood cancer diagnosis and treatment and achieve the best quality of life possible. Patients are always at the center of my priorities. How will blood and marrow transplant services on Long Island fit in with the broader healthcare structure? We are seeking to expand the blood and marrow transplant program across the NYU Langone system and want to coordinate efforts. Therefore, although I will be based on Long Island, I will be collaborating with colleagues at our other sites, including Jeffrey G. Schneider, MD Division of Hematology and Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Oscar B. Lahoud, MD , chief of hematology at Mohammad Maher Abdul Hay, MD , director of the Clinical Leukemia Program at I will also be working closely with specialties crucial for any transplant service, including the emergency department, critical care, infectious disease, and classic hematology. We need to be mindful of those services every day to provide the best quality of care for our patients. What do you consider to be the biggest challenges ahead in the field of bone marrow transplant? How will the Perlmutter Cancer Center and your work aim to address them? The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care in general, and physicians specializing in blood cancer therapy are sorely needed. “The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care.” Transplant, which is one word that represents different procedures under the same umbrella, is a highly intense field and specialty. It takes a village, including highly trained physicians who specialize in blood and marrow transplantation, advanced practice providers, transplant coordinators, social workers, nutritionists, physical therapists, symptoms management specialists, and others to provide each patient with the best care possible. To increase the hematology–oncology workforce, we need to understand what hematologist–oncologists, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other team members need to enjoy continuing to work in this field, while tailoring this workforce to meet the patient’s needs. With a dedicated hematology–oncology service in the community, my hope is that we will not only support patients locally, but also drive new talent to the field and increase retention. Hematology, Bone Marrow Transplant Anne S. Renteria, MD, is site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and a clinical associate professor of medicine at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. She specializes in increasing access to bone marrow transplant and CAR T-cell therapies. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health NYU Langone’s new Center for Molecular Oncology intends to provide molecular analysis and serial liquid biopsies for all patients diagnosed with cancer. To maximize insights, Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, and colleagues are leveraging whole-genome sequencing to enhance mutation detection beyond standard targeted gene panels. As an example of how whole-genome sequencing can expand knowledge, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used the technique to identify a new class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements. The goal is to translate whole-genome data into actionable, EMR-integrated reports that clinicians can easily interpret for personalized treatment decisions. A growing body of evidence supports the potential of routine molecular profiling of tumors as a transformative practice in oncology. In addition, liquid biopsies—tests that detect DNA shed by tumors into the bloodstream—are emerging as a crucial tool for monitoring malignancies over time. Yet these molecular approaches are currently used almost exclusively for advanced disease, or for the small minority of cancers in which precision therapies are indicated as a first-line treatment. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology, launched in October 2024 , is pioneering a care model in which both practices play a far broader role. In the near future, all patients diagnosed with cancer throughout the health system will receive a molecular analysis of their cancer, followed by serial liquid biopsies as needed. And to help maximize the utility of such assays, researchers attached to the center are turning to a cutting-edge methodology: whole-genome sequencing. “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome. By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD Spearheading that effort is , director of cancer genomics at . “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, such as targeted gene panels, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome,” Dr. Imielinski says. “By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Hunting for Key Mutations That Targeted Panels May Miss Over the past two decades, targeted gene panels have become the gold standard for genomic assessment of cancer. The most advanced approach uses next-generation sequencing technology to test hundreds of genes simultaneously for known biomarkers of cancer. Although known as “comprehensive” genomic profiling, this method can detect only preselected gene variants. Whole-genome sequencing, by contrast, analyzes an entire genome—whether that of the patient, the patient’s tumor, or both—for variants that may prove relevant to an individual’s cancer or its treatment, even if they are not currently recognized as clinically significant. Advanced computing techniques, such as machine learning, are employed to identify both known biomarkers and variants worth investigating further. At present, this methodology is confined mostly to research labs. Regulators have approved a handful of clinical applications— acute myeloid leukemia in the United States select cancers, including pediatric cancers, in Europe and Australia —but the routine use of whole-genome tests has yet to enter mainstream oncology practice. Dr. Imielinski, who joined NYU Langone in 2022, is a molecular pathologist with an extensive background in computational biology and genomics, and a nationally recognized leader in efforts to bring whole-genome-based diagnostic methods into cancer care. His research focuses on developing new algorithms and technologies for analyzing a tumor genome’s structure and biochemistry. “My lab is working to identify genetic biomarkers that point to new therapies, or that can determine whether existing targeted drugs or immunotherapies could work for patients who are not now considered candidates,” he explains. “Those biomarkers could also help us determine which patients would be best suited for which clinical trials, potentially benefiting both the individual and the search for better cancer treatments.” Beyond DNA “Typos” To find such markers, Dr. Imielinski and his team look beyond the small “typos” in DNA, which is what many standard clinical assays and algorithms use to detect and characterize tumor cells. Instead, they investigate more-complex changes, such as rearrangements, copy number alterations, and the folding