NYU Langone Hospitals Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan 2022 2024 1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Developing our Community Service Plan Who We Are NYU Langone Health is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers. Composed of NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”), NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”), NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“NYULISoM”), and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, NYU Langone Health has a trifold mission: to serve, teach and discover. Located in the heart of Manhattan, with additional facilities throughout the New York City area. Throughout NYU Langone Health, we provide financial assistance for patients with limited income regardless of their insurance status. For information about the NYULH financial assistance program go to: https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance Every three years, all non profit hospitals are required to create a Community Service Plan a plan to offer programs that meet the community’s top health needs. A Community Service Plan begins with a community health needs and assets assessment. This includes a review of community data and information from community members about their health needs and priorities. This assessment shows us what health concerns the communities are experiencing and how we can help address these concerns. We then create a plan to address these needs that aligns with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities. Our Communities NYU Langone Health (NYULH) serves communities of diverse people with a variety of health concerns. As with our previous Community Service Plan, the 2022 2024 Plan focuses on the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn. In 2022, with the addition of NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (formerly Winthrop University Hospital), we also completed a needs and assets assessment with community leaders and residents in Hempstead, Nassau County, Long Island. These communities reflect the Hospitals’ patient population and are geographically close to the hospitals that comprise NYU Langone Health. Although these communities are not close to each other, they share important similarities, including the diversity of their populations, strong community based organizations, and pockets of poverty in areas of higher wealth. Map Source: U.S. Census Bureau, generated using data.census.gov; https://data.census.gov/cedsci; (30 Mar 2022). Lower East Side/ Chinatown, Manhattan Hempstead, Nassau Sunset Park, Brooklyn Red Hook, Brooklyn Our Priorities 2 Public participation is an important part of our process. We spoke with community residents, service providers, and public health and policy experts to understand needs, strengths, and health priorities. We also reviewed data to understand risks, health disparities, and existing resources and services. Our communities share similar health concerns. Reducing tobacco use, ensuring access to healthy food and safe environments, and preventing cardiovascular disease, and supporting families through early childhood and teen programs continue to be top priorities. There is also a growing concern about the intersection of health and social and economic needs, particularly housing, across all communities and partners. PREVENTING CHRONIC DISEASE PROMOTING HEALTHY WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN By Reducing Tobacco Use Smoking in New York City has dropped to . But of low income New Yorkers smoke. The smoking rate for Asian men in New York City is even higher () and has remained relatively unchanged since 2002. Smoking is also higher in Hempstead () than Nassau County (). By Addressing the Intersection of Health and Housing Many studies have shown the link between housing instability and poor health and increased need for health care services. Homelessness increases risk for chronic and infectious diseases and mental health issues. Severe rent burden, overcrowding and eviction can lead to stress, depression, anxiety, and less access to care and medications. Structural issues, mold, and pests can cause respiratory problems and falls and other injuries. Housing instability and quality are high priority social determinants of health in all of our communities. By Promoting Healthy Eating and Food Security Food insecurity (lack of enough food or access to nutritious food) is harmful to health and is especially problematic for young children as it can affect development. Even before the COVID pandemic, one out of ten adults in New York City often or sometimes did not have enough food to eat. Rates are higher for Latinx, Black, and Asian adults compared with White adults. The COVID pandemic has made food insecurity worse and many community organizations have reported dramatic increases in the number of families served at food pantries. Obesity continues to be epidemic. It is more common in low income communities where neighborhood resources like healthy food and safe places for physical activity may not be available. Many children seen at Sunset Park and Hempstead pediatric practices are overweight or obese. Preventing and addressing obesity is a high priority for community residents and leaders. Poverty often puts mothers at risk for depression and problems during pregnancy, and puts children at risk for poor health and developmental problems. The COVID pandemic has increased stress for many families. The rise in anti immigrant feelings and the impact of violence and racism also increase concerns about mother and child well being. In addition, while teen birth rates have declined, rates remain higher in Sunset Park and Hempstead. Supporting the wellbeing of women, infants, children, and teens is a priority in all of our communities. PROMOTING A HEALTHY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT Falls are the leading cause of injury related death and hospital visits for adults ages 65 years or older in New York State. As the population ages, preventing falls is key to promoting health and enabling older adults to remain independent. Our Plan to Prevent Chronic Disease 3 Healthy Food Initiative Tobacco Free Community The Healthy Food Initiative is an evidence informed intervention to address food insecurity that includes emergency food assistance, screening and case management, community education, and a community wide food systems coalition. The Healthy Food Initiative serves households in Sunset Park and neighboring communities. Tobacco Free Community addresses high smoking rates among immigrant populations by facilitating access to smoking cessation treatment and reducing children’s exposure to secondhand smoke through community based partnership, advocacy, outreach, counseling, and referrals to cessation and health services. Tobacco Free Community serves residents in Lower East Side and Chinatown, Red Hook, Sunset Park, and other New York City neighborhoods. Greenlight Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program Greenlight is an evidence based, culturally adapted nutrition and healthy lifestyle program for parents of children ages newborn to 2 years old to improve health literacy and foster healthful behaviors through provider training, family engagement, and booklet and tool distribution. Greenlight serves children and their families in pediatric primary care centers in Lower East Side and Chinatown, Sunset Park, and Hempstead. The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program is an evidence based education series facilitated by registered nurses in community settings, such as public libraries, to help people with chronic diseases manage their symptoms and live healthy, fulfilling lives. The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program serves residents from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans Red Hook Community Health Network Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans (REACH FAR) is a culturally tailored health coaching, screening, and healthy food access program for Asian and Arab Americans to prevent and improve management of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. REACH FAR works with mosques in Lower East Side and Sunset Park. The Red Hook Community Health Network is a network of community based organizations and health partners expanding access to health services for Red Hook residents, especially those living in public housing, through a community health worker program and community workgroups. The Red Hook Community Health Network works with organizations and residents in Red Hook. Our Plan to Prevent Chronic Disease 4 Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center Health x Housing Lab The Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center (CHW RRC) expands access to training and up to date information on health topics and community resources for Community Health Workers (CHWs). The CHW RRC provides social and professional development opportunities for CHWs within the NYU Langone Health system. It also provides technical support, evaluation, and convening opportunities to support community based organizations, health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations to help them strengthen their CHW programs and better understand the role of CHWs in promoting the health of vulnerable communities. Health x Housing Lab aims to advance health and health equity by contributing toward a future in which all people have safe, stable, and affordable housing through providing evidence based guidance on initiatives, policy, and education and career development for future leaders at the intersection of health and housing. Health x Housing Lab works with New York City and national policy leaders, advocates, people with lived experience of homelessness, and housing and healthcare providers. Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium is a collaborative network of healthcare, housing, homeless and social services organizations, and government partners to improve health equity and housing stability through fostering cross sector relationships, informing policy, and building the capacity of frontline workers who support Brooklyn residents with unmet health and housing needs. Our Plan to Promote Healthy Women, Infants, and Children 5 ParentChild+ Project SAFE ParentChild+ is a national, evidence based home visiting program that promotes early literacy, parenting and school readiness through twice weekly home visits for two years. ParentChild+ serves parents and their 2 4 year old children in Sunset Park. − Project SAFE is a teen pregnancy and HIV/ AIDS prevention program, using an evidence based youth leadership and peer education model. Particular focus is on disparities for youth who live in low income households and/or identify as racial or ethnic minorities. Project SAFE serves youth 11 24 years old in Sunset Park and other Brooklyn neighborhoods. ParentCorps Family Support Services ParentCorps is an evidence based, family centered early childhood intervention for pre K parents, educators, and children designed to improve child health, behavior and learning. ParentCorps works with parents, educators, and children in Sunset Park. Family Support Services is an evidence informed program that supports childhood health and development through family social needs screening and care coordination. Supports include the national, evidence informed Reach Out and Read program, which delivers books and messaging about the importance of reading at routine pediatric checkups. Family Support Services works with families with children who are patients of the NYU Langone Health Long Island Pediatric Primary Care Center in Hempstead. Video Interaction Project Video Interaction Project (VIP) is an evidence based parenting program in pediatric clinics that provides 25 minute one on one visits with a VIP Coach who uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents support early development and literacy in their children. VIP serves families in pediatric primary care centers and community sites in Sunset Park. Our Plan to Promote Healthy and Safe Environments 6 Our Core Values Performance Respect Integrity Diversity Excellence Copies of the full Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan 2022 2024 can be downloaded from the NYU Langone Health website at: http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan. For questions and comments, please contact Sue A. Kaplan, JD, Research Associate Professor and Director of the Community Service Plan, Department of Population Health at: sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org or Kathleen Hopkins, Vice President for Community Programs, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health at: kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org. Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention A Matter of Balance Tai Chi for Arthirits for Fall Prevention is an evidence based Tai Chi fall risk reduction program for adults over 60 in hospital and community settings. Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention serves older adults from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. A Matter of Balance is an evidence based eight session exercise program to reduce the fear of falling and increase activity levels among older adults offered in hospital and community settings. A Matter of Balance serves older adults from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. Our Plan for Ongoing Evaluation and Adaptation Our Coordinating Council, composed of community partners and NYU Langone Health program leaders, will continue to meet every three months to review the progress of all programs. In 2020, the Coordinating Council adopted principles to increase community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda. Each Community Service Plan initiative selected one or more of these principles as a focus for improvement. We will continue to work with the community and our partners to understand the impact of our programs, identify new community needs, and develop strategies to improve the health of our communities. Brooklyn Data Station The Brooklyn Data Station provides analysis and technical assistance to Coordinating Council members for ongoing needs assessments, partnership building, program planning, and evaluation.


NYU Langone Hospitals 2022 2024 年度社區健康需求評估和社區服務計劃 1 執行摘要 開發我們的社區服務計劃 關於我們 NYU Langone Health 是美國首屈一指的學術醫療中心之一。NYU Langone Health 由 NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”)、NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”)、NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“NYULISoM”) 和 NYU Langone 的家庭健康中心組成，擁有三重使命：服務、教學和探索。位於Manhattan 的中心地帶，並有遍布紐約市區的其他設施。 在 NYU Langone Health 上下，我們為收入有限的患者提供經濟援助，無論其保險狀況如何。有關 NYULH 經濟援助計劃的信息，請訪問：https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance 每三年，所有非營利性醫院均需制定一項社區服務計劃，該計劃旨在提供滿足社區頭號健康需求的計劃。社區服務計劃始於社區健康需求和資產評估。這包括審查社區數據和社區成員相關健康需求和優先事項的信息。該評估向我們展示了社區正在經歷的健康問題以及我們如何協助解決這些問題。繼而，我們制定了一項計劃來滿足這些需求，該計劃切合紐約州預防議程以及紐約市和Nassau 縣的公共衛生優先事項。 我們的社區 NYU Langone Health (NYULH) 為具有各種健康問題的不同人群提供服務。如同我們之前的社區服務計劃，2022 2024 年度計劃的重點是Manhattan的Lower East Side 和Chinatown，以及Brooklyn 的Sunset Park 和Red Hook。2022 年，隨著 NYU Langone Hospitals Long Island（原Winthrop University Hospital）的加入，我們還與 Long Island 下轄 Nassau 縣Hempstead 的社區領袖和居民一起完成了需求和資產評估。 這些社區反映了醫院的患者群體，並且在地理位置上靠近組成 NYU Langone Health 的各家醫院。儘管這些社區互不相隣，但有著重要的相似之處，包括人口的多樣性、強大的社區組織以及富裕地區的貧民片區。 地圖來源：U.S. Census Bureau, 使用 data.census.gov ; https://data.census.gov/cedsci ； （2022 年 3 月 30 日）。 Lower East Side/Chinatown, Manhattan Hempstead, Nassau Sunset Park, Brooklyn Red Hook, Brooklyn 我們的優先事項 2 公眾參與是我們流程的重要組成部分。我們與社區居民、服務提供者以及公共衛生和政策專家進行了交談，以了解需求、優勢和健康優先事項。我們還審查了數據以了解風險、健康差異以及現有資源和服務。我們的社區有著相似的健康問題。減少煙草使用、確保獲得健康食品和安全環境、預防心血管疾病以及通過幼兒和青少年計劃支持家庭，這些仍然是重中之重。所有社區和合作夥伴對健康與社會和經濟需求，特別是住房的交叉點也日益關注。 預防慢性病 促進婦女、嬰兒和兒童的健康 通過減少煙草使用 紐約市的吸煙率已降至 。但 的低收入紐約人吸煙。紐約市亞裔男性的吸煙率甚至更高（），自 2002 年以來一直保持相對不變。Hempstead () 的吸煙率也高於Nassau 縣 ()。 通過解決健康和住房的交集問題 許多研究表明，住房不穩定與健康狀況不佳以及對醫療保健服務的需求增加之間存在聯繫。無家可歸會增加患慢性病和傳染病以及心理健康問題的風險。龐大的租金負擔、過度擁擠和迫遷會導致壓力、抑鬱、焦慮，並減少獲得護理和藥物的機會。構造問題、黴菌和害蟲會導致呼吸問題、跌倒和其他傷害。在我們所有社區中，住房不穩定和質量是高度優先的健康社會決定因素。 通過促進健康飲食和食物安全 食物不安全（缺乏足夠的食物或無法獲得有營養的食物）對健康有害，對幼兒尤其成問題，因為會影響發育。早在 COVID 大流行之前，紐約市十分之一的成年人就經常或有時沒有足夠的食物吃。與白人成年人相比，拉丁裔、黑人和亞洲成年人的比率更高。COVID 大流行使食物不安全狀況變得更糟，許多社區組織報告說，在食品供應站接受服務的家庭數量急劇增加。 肥胖持續流行。這在低收入社區更為常見，因為那裡可能無法獲得鄰里資源（如健康食品和安全的體育活動場所）。在Sunset Park 和Hempstead 兒科診所就醫的許多兒童超重或肥胖。預防和解決肥胖問題是社區居民和領導者的重中之重。 貧困常常使母親在懷孕期間面臨抑鬱症和問題的風險，並使兒童面臨健康狀況不佳和發育問題的風險。COVID 大流行增加了許多家庭的壓力。反移民情緒的上升以及暴力和種族主義的影響也增加了對母子福祉的擔憂。此外，雖然青少年出生率有所下降，但Sunset Park 和Hempstead 的出生率仍然較高。支持婦女、嬰兒、兒童和青少年的福祉是我們所有社區的首要任務。 促進健康安全的環境 跌倒是紐約州 65 歲或以上的成年人因受傷而死亡和住院的主要原因。隨著人口老齡化，預防跌倒是促進健康和使老年人保持自理的關鍵。 我們的預防慢性病計劃 3 Healthy Food Initiative Tobacco Free Community Healthy Food Initiative 是一項解決食物不安全問題的循證干預措施，包括緊急糧食援助、篩查和病例管理、社區教育以及全社區食物系統聯盟。Healthy Food Initiative 為Sunset Park 和鄰近社區的家庭提供服務。 Tobacco Free Community 通過基於社區的合作伙伴關係、宣傳、外展、諮詢以及轉介戒菸和健康服務，促進獲得戒菸治療並減少兒童接觸二手煙，從而解決移民人口中的高吸煙率問題。Tobacco Free Community為Lower East Side 和Chinatown、Red Hook、Sunset Park 和紐約市其他街區的居民提供服務。 Greenlight Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program Greenlight 是一項結合文化特點的營養和健康生活方式的循證計劃，旨在通過提供者培訓、家庭參與以及小冊子和工具分發，為新生兒至 2 歲兒童的父母提高健康素養並促進健康行為。Greenlight 在Lower East Side 和Chinatown、Sunset Park 和Hempstead 的兒科初級保健中心為兒童及其家人提供服務。 Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program 是一個循證教育系列，由註冊護士在公共圖書館等社區環境中推動，幫助慢性病患者管理自身症狀並過上健康、充實的生活。Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program 為 Hempstead 和其他 Long Island 社區的居民提供服務。 Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans Red Hook Community Health Network Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans (REACH FAR) 是一項針對亞裔和阿拉伯裔美國人的文化量身定制的健康指導、篩查和健康食品獲取計劃，以預防並改善糖尿病和心血管疾病的管理。REACH FAR 與Lower East Side 和Sunset Park 的清真寺合作。 Red Hook Community Health Network 是一個由社區組織和健康合作夥伴組成的網絡，通過社區衛生工作者計劃和社區工作組，為 Red Hook 居民，尤其是居住在公共住房中的居民，擴大獲得衛生服務的機會。Red Hook Community Health Network 與 Red Hook 的各家組織和居民合作。 我們的預防慢性病計劃 4 Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center Health x Housing Lab Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center (CHW RRC) 擴大了社區衛生工作者 (CHW) 獲得培訓以及衛生主題和社區資源最新信息的機會。CHW RRC 為 NYU Langone Health 系統內的 CHW 提供社會和職業發展機會。該計劃還提供技術支持、評估和召集機會，以支持社區組織、衛生系統、市政機構和研究組織，以幫助他們加強其 CHW 計劃並更好地了解 CHW 在促進弱勢社區健康方面的作用。 Health x Housing Lab 旨在通過為處於健康和住房交叉點的未來領袖提供有關倡議、政策、教育和職業發展的循證指導，為所有人擁有安全、穩定和負擔得起的住房的未來做出貢獻，從而促進健康和健康公平。Health x Housing Lab 與紐約市和國家政策領導人、倡導者、有無家可歸經歷的人群以及住房和醫療保健提供者合作。 BrooklynBrooklyn Health & Housing Consortium BrooklynBrooklyn Health & Housing Consortium 是一個由醫療保健、住房、無家可歸者和社會服務組織以及政府合作夥伴組成的協作網絡，旨在通過促進跨部門關係、擬定政策，並構建支持Brooklyn 健康和住房需求未得到滿足的居民的一線工作人員的能力，來改善健康公平和住房穩定性。 我們的促進婦女、嬰兒和兒童健康計劃 5 ParentChild+ Project SAFE ParentChild+ 是一項全國循證家訪計劃，通過為期兩年的每週兩次家訪來促進早期識字、育兒和入學準備。ParentChild+ 在Sunset Park 為父母和他們 2 4 歲的孩子提供服務。 Project SAFE 是一項青少年懷孕和艾滋病毒/艾滋病預防計劃，採用實證青年領導力和同伴教育模式。具體重點是生活在低收入家庭和/或被認定為少數種族或少數族裔的青年的差異性。Project SAFE 為Sunset Park和Brooklyn 其他街區的 11 24 歲青年提供服務。 ParentCorps Family Support Services ParentCorps 是一項以家庭為中心的早期兒童干預循證措施，面向學前班家長、教育工作者和兒童，旨在改善兒童健康、行為和學習。ParentCorps 與Sunset Park的家長、教育工作者和兒童合作。 Family Support Services 是一項循證計劃，通過家庭社會需求篩查和護理協調來支持兒童健康和發展。支持包括全國性的「聯絡和閱讀」循證計劃，該計劃在常規兒科檢查中提供關於閱讀重要性的書籍和信息。Family Support Services 與有孩子的家庭合作，這些孩子是 NYU Langone Health 位於Hempstead 的Long Island 兒科初級保健中心的患者。 Video Interaction Project 視頻互動項目 (VIP) 是兒科診所的一項循證育兒計劃，提供 25 分鐘的一對一訪問，並由 VIP 教練使用錄像和適合發育的玩具、書籍和資源，來幫助父母支持早期發育和他們的孩子識字。VIP 為Sunset Park 的兒科初級保健中心的家庭和社區場所提供服務。 我們的促進健康和安全環境計劃 6 我們的核心價值觀 績效 尊重 誠信 多元化 卓越 完整的『2022 2024 年社區健康需求評估和社區服務計劃』副本可從 NYU Langone Health 網站下載： http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan。 如有問題和意見，請聯繫 Sue A. Kaplan，JD，副教授研究員兼人口健康部社區服務計劃主任： sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org 或 Kathleen Hopkins，NYU Langone Health 家庭健康中心社區計劃副主席：kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org。 Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention A Matter of Balance 「Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention」是一項針對醫院和社區環境中 60 歲以上成年人的太極拳降低跌倒風險循證計劃。「Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention」計劃為Hempstead 和其他Long Island 社區的老年人提供服務。 「A Matter of Balance」是一項八程式鍛煉實證計劃，旨在減少醫院和社區環境中老年人對跌倒的恐懼並提高活動水平。「A Matter of Balance」計劃為Hempstead 和其他Long Island 社區的老年人提供服務。 我們的持續評估和適應計劃 我們的協調委員會由社區合作夥伴和 NYU Langone Health 項目負責人組成，將繼續每季度開會一次，審查所有項目的進展情況。2020 年，協調委員會通過了增進社區參與、改善健康公平和實施反種族主義議程的原則。每個社區服務計劃倡議都選擇了這些原則中的一項或多項作為改進的重點。我們將繼續助力社區和我們的合作夥伴，以了解我們計劃的影響，確定新的社區需求，並製定改善社區健康的戰略。 Brooklyn Data Station Brooklyn Data StationBrooklyn 為協調委員會成員提供分析和技術援助，以進行持續的需求評估、合作夥伴關係建設、項目規劃和評估。