\.RM(7,,S .Community Health Advisors/WorkersSelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesVolume IIIJune 1998ICENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROLAND PREVENTIONU.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESCenters for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionDivision of Adult and Community HealthThis publication was developed and produced by the National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health Promotion of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health PromotionJames S. Marks, MD, MPHDirectorTechnical Information andEditorial Services BranchVirginia S. Bales, MPHDeputy DirectorChristine S. Fralish, MLISChiefDivision of Adult and Community HealthGail A. Cruse, MLISTechnical Information SpecialistGary C. HogelinDirectorDivision of Cancer Prevention and ControlJ. Nell Brownstein, PhDHealth Education SpecialistStephen W. Wyatt, DMD, MPHDirectorSuggested CitationCenters for Disease Control and Prevention. Community Health Advisors/Workers:Selected Annotations and Programs in the United States.Volume III.Atlanta, Geor gia: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health Promotion, 1998.This publication was prepared by Cygnus Corporation under Contract No. 200 94 0844 for theNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.Contents should notbe construed as the official policy of the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention andHealth Promotion or any agency of the federal government.Community Health Advisors/WorkersSelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesVolume IIIJune 1998U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESCenters for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionDivision of Adult and Community HealthCommunity Health Advisors/Workers: Volume IIISelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesJune 1998PrefaceviiArticlesixIntroductionxxxvHow to Use This PublicationxxxviiSection IContentsI.The Community Health Advisor/WorkerA.Conceptual Models1B.Applications and Methods9C.Volunteers as Community Health Advisors35D.Evaluation43EL.Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs49HI.Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsA.Asthma53B.Cancer55C.Cardiovascular Disease65D.Diabetes73E.Nutrition77F.Tobacco Control79IV.Issues of AgingA.Quality of Life81B.Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populations85inV.School Health93VI.Maternal and Child Health103VII.Sexual Behavior127VIII.Injury and Violence131IX.Mental Health133X.Substance Abuse141INDEXESTitle Index143Author Index151Subject Index159IVAbout Community Health Advisors"If the problems are in the community...the solutions are in the community."Gilbert Friedell, MDDirector of Cancer ControlKentucky Cancer ProgramLucille P. Markey Cancer CenterLexington, Kentucky"When asked why I am so sold on working with community health advisors in community driven healthpromotion, I answer with four main points:IT'S FUN,IT WORKS,IT LASTS,IT'S THE RIGHT THING TO DO!But even I must admit that CHA programs can be hard to explain, evaluate, and fund, and they take timeto implement. Nevertheless, I firmly believe that CHAs and programs like CHAN are essential compo nents of the solution to this nation's health problems."Agnes W.Hinton, Ph.D., RD, LNDirectorCommunity Health Advisor NetworkUniversity ofSouthern MississippiHattiesburg, Mississippi"Many of the most intractable health problems plaguing communities today—infant mortality amongAfrican Americans, asthma among poor children, violence among inner city youth—are the result ofenvironmental, social, and economic conditions. As health care workers who combine an intimate under standing of communities with knowledge about health issues and the health care system, CommunityHealth Advisors are uniquely suited to address these underlying determinants of health and create healthiercommunities."Noel Wiggins, MSPHHealth Services SpecialistMultnomah County Health DepartmentPortland, Oregon"It is important that people entering the field of Community Health Work are aware of the rich culturalhistory. The modern "Community Health Advisor" is the grandchild of the historical "Granny Midwife","Curandcra", "Mama Lua", "Partiera", or "Sage Femme".These community healers were much moreloosely connected to the formal health care system, but depended upon greatly.They have been themedical system's link to disenfranchised and difficult to reach communities wherever they were, now andthen."Aminyah MuhammadLife Skills EducatorFor Love of ChildrenWashington, DC"From the late 1960's to 1998 Community Health Workers have come full circle:In the early years the scope of work was unstructured, the role was not clearly defined, and agencies weregenerally apathetic. But in time we proved our worth through commitment and dedication to the commu nity as members of the health care services team.By the end of the 1980's many community healthworkers were written out of funded programs while those who remained were stripped of responsibilitiesand given limited duties.Now, there is renewed interest in the community health worker field and the current health care environ ment presents a valuable opportunity to capitalize on the strengths and contributions of community healthworkers. This is a very exciting time for us and after over 27 years of experience as a community healthworker, I am very proud to be a part of this history.Though much work has been accomplished over thelast three years, there is still much to be done. We must seize this moment."Yvonne LacyCommunity Health Worker SpecialistCity ofBerkeleyHealth and Human Services DepartmentBerkeley, CaliforniaVIPrefaceThemission of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is to promote health andquality of life by preventing and controlling disease, injury, and disability. As the nation'sprevention agency, CDC accomplishes its mission by working with partners throughout thenation and the world to monitor health, detect and investigate health problems, conduct research toenhance prevention, develop and advocate sound public health policies, implement prevention strate gies, promote healthy behaviors, foster safe and healthful environments, and provide leadership andtraining.In the United States, community health advisors* foster these goals by conducting community levelactivities and interventions that promote health and prevent diseases. These advisors are trusted, re spected members of the community who serve as a bridge between their peers and health professionals.Their informal, but direct, involvement enhances the delivery of health related services and informationto diverse populations, including minority, rural, and underserved populations. They provide a vitalservice by establishing and maintaining relationships with health care professionals and laypersons inthe community. As health advocates, community health advisors promote and encourage positive,healthful behaviors among their peers.In recent years, community health advisors have experienced a resurgence in their role in the commu nity. We have added the term Community Health Worker to the title of this document because increas ing numbers of community members who serve their communities and the changing health care system,including managed care organizations, are being called community health workers. They are currentlyinvolved in a variety of CDC funded projects in such areas as HIV/AIDS, breast and cervical cancer,cardiovascular disease, diabetes, maternal and child health, nutrition, immunizations, and tuberculosis.To emphasize the important work being done by indigenous health workers at the community andneighborhood levels, we have prepared an extensive bibliography by searching bibliographic databasesand by contacting organizations, programs, and individuals engaged in community based activities andinterventions. During our search, we may have overlooked some excellent source materials.If you findthat your program or article is not listed, we invite you to furnish information about your project byfilling out the program data sheet located at the back of Volume III. We will include your program orresearch when we update the bibliography.vn*The term community health advisor/worker denotes trusted and respected community members whoprovide informal community based health related services and who establish vital links between health careprofessionals in local public health departments and persons in the community.In the following list, wehave tried to include some of the different terms that may be used to identify these lay health communitymembers:Community health advocateLay community health workerCommunity health aideLay health workerCommunity health representativeLay volunteerCommunity helperNatural caregiverFamily health promoterNatural helperHealth facilitatorOutreach workerHealth liaisonParaprofessionalHealth promoterPeer counselorHealth visitorPeer health advisorHome visitorPeer health educatorIndigenous health aidePromotoraIndigenous paraprofessionalResource motherInformal helperVolunteer health educatorOn the following pages you will find two manuscripts. The first presents the results of the analyses ofthe information provided by the 140 CHA/CHW programs in Volume II; it provides insights into howCHA's are recruited, trained, managed, and retained by agencies, and it makes management recommen dations for improving these tasks and the agency working environment. The second paper reveals somedifferences between rural and urban CHA programs and makes further management recommendations.vmArticle1Community Health Advisor Use: Insights from a National SurveyKatherine Wilson, MPH, CHES; J. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.; Curtis Blanton, MSMs. Wilson is a Public Health Educator in the Division of Cancer Prevention and Control; Dr.Brownstein is a Health Education Specialist, and Mr. Blanton is a Health Statistician in the Division ofAdult and Community Health. Both Divisions are in the National Center for Chronic Disease Preven tion and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA.The authors acknowledge assistance provided by Susan Ackermann, Ph.D., Barbara Dougherty, andFonda Martin.Address correspondence to Nell Brownstein, Ph.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770Buford Hwy, (K45), Atlanta, GA, 30341 3724, or e mail jnbl @cdc.govCommunity Health Advisor Use: Insights from a National Survey AbstractThis article presents the results of a national survey of 140 Community Health Advisor (CHA) pro grams in the U.S., contained in Volume II of this series. The results showed that: CHA programs reachall age, racial, and ethnic groups in both rural and urban areas; services are delivered at the communitylevel; and CHA's primary role is to educate and promote health. Providing training, compensation, anda positive work environment; being respectful of the individual; and having a clearly defined scope ofduties were the most effective means of retaining CHAs. We recommend that agencies consider devel oping a long term training plan and a compensation program, reviewing their agency's work environ ment, and planning a recruitment strategy.Key Words: Community Health Advisors, health promotion, training, strategiesIntroductionA Community Health Advisor (CHA) is a natural helper—a trusted, respected, and well known indig enous member of the community to whom others naturally turn for support, health advice, resources,and referrals1,2.He or she is a bridge between community members andlocal health and humanservices professionals2 3. The informal, but direct, involvement of CHAs enhances the delivery ofhealth related information and services to diverse groups, including minority, rural, and underservedpopulations4,5. Using CHAs can be an effective, low cost way to increase community members' accessto health care; improve health status; change negative health related behavior or reinforce positivebehavior; change health related attitudes, values, beliefs; place relevant information into an appropriatecultural context; and increase health knowledge5 "8. CHA programs have improved communicationbetween community members and health professionals; bridged the cultural gap; improved the deliveryof health services to vulnerable populations such as low income, ethnic, and rural and neighborhoodgroups; and assisted community residents in resolving their own needs and problems (individual andixcommunity empowerment)'•5J9~ 12. Many different names identify CHAs. Some commonly used namesinclude community health workers, community health aides, promotoras, consejeras, natural helpers,lay health workers, outreach workers, peer counselors, home visitors, community health representatives,and resource mothers. The National Community Health Advisor Study identified 66 distinct (althoughoften similar) titles for CHAs13.Although CHAs have been used for a long time in other countries, the use of CHAs to assist with publichealth programs began in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s and since then has gone in and outof fashion9. Within the past five years, there has been a resurgent interest in, and use of, CHAs becauseof increased health care costs, limited health care access, and the growth of minority and underservedpopulations. Many CHA programs serve the traditional audiences of the state and local health depart ments. Using CHAs can help these agencies reach their audiences, but only if agencies effectivelyintegrate CHAs into their programs.This analysis presents to agencies that use, or are considering the use of, CHA programs, programmanagers' insights into the most effective strategies for recruiting, managing, and retaining CHAs.MethodsThe National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Controland Prevention, conducted a national survey of Community Health Advisor (CHA) programsto estab lish a coordinated, central source of information on them. A secondary analysis of the survey dataprovides insights into how CHAs are recruited, trained, managed, and retained by agencies.SampleThe CHA program survey was a nonprobability, convenience sample of CHA programs in the UnitedStates. With a nonprobability sample, inferences can be made only about the respondents to the surveyand not about all U.S. CHA programs.Nevertheless, because of the number and variety of respondents,the authors believe that the respondents gave meaningful insights into CHA programs.Surveys weresent to recipients of Federal funding for breast and cervical cancer screening and diabetes education andscreening, state directors of health education and health promotion, state directors of chronic diseaseprograms, state directors of education, rural health directors, participants of the Arizona "Peer HealthEducation" conference, Resource Mothers program directors and staff, and attendees of CHA sessionsat the 1993 American Public Health Association Annual Meeting. Also, respondents were solicitedthrough the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion's "Chronic DiseaseNotes and Reports" and through the newsletter of the Public Health Education and Health PromotionSection of the American Public Health Association. All surveys were completed by program managers,not CHAs.InstrumentThe CHA program survey (found in volume II) has 33 items divided into three sections: a) identifyinginformation; b) program setting, which includes the type of agency delivering programs, health topicscovered, site of program delivery, target populations served, hours worked, compensation, training, andfunding sources; and c) program information, including the number of CHAs, number of clients served,percentage of CHAs who are members of the target group, titles and roles for CHAs.All but fourquestions use a checklist format where multiple responses were possible.The remaining four ques tions, which deal with key issues of recruitment and retention, were written in an open ended format toidentify responses that may be used to develop a future survey. Respondents also were invited to attachdescriptive program materials and evaluation plans.We developed the questions with guidance from experienced CHA practitioners. The draft survey wasfield tested with academics, CHAs and program managers who participated in the "Peer Health Educa tion:Mobilizing Resources for Practice, Policy, and Research" conference held February 7 8, 1993, inTucson, AZ.Since the primary purpose of the survey was to collect program descriptions for anelectronic database, we did not think that including the responses to the field test would bias the studyoutcome.Data analysisAll responses were entered into Epi Info I, version 514. Frequencies and percentages were tabulatedusing SAS software. A response rate is impossible to calculate, since the number of CHA programs inthe United States is unknown and no record of secondary distribution of the survey exists.We used the constant comparative method15 to analyze the qualitative data from the four open endedquestions. This method uses open coding to identify salient themes, which are grouped and defined ascategories. Once defined, we used categories to condense and analyze survey data. The themes forretaining CHAs were developed with assistance from a human resources expert, since many aspects ofretaining CHAs are similar to those of retaining other workers. To test inter rater reliability, a secondperson coded the same responses by using the response theme list, which is shown in Table1.Table1 . Response themes for recruiting and retaining CHAsRecruitingRetaining•AdvertisingTrainingWord of mouth referralsCompensation, such as salary, incentives,Referrals from community andbenefits, or stipendssocial service groupsWorking environmentReferrals from current CHAsStandard operating procedures (agency)Networking with people in otherScope of work (for CHA)CHA programsThree of these themes are given specific definitions for this analysis. Standard operating proceduresdescribes operation norms for the agency or the set of guidelines under which an agency, organization,or other group conducts business to achieve objectives. Scope of work addresses the individual tasks,performances, expectations, andresponsibilities related to a position, not to a person. Working envi ronment includes the contact with and support of other employees, relationships between employeesand supervisors, communication, recognition and appreciation, respect, and cultural sensitivity.xiTable 2.Funding sources for CHAprogramsResultsProfile ofprogramsProgram managers from 36 states and the Dis trict of Columbia completed 140 surveys. Thelargest number of respondents was from Califor nia (14), Florida (13), and Minnesota (12)(Figure1).Fifty six percent of these programswere funded exclusively by public monies, 14percent received private funding exclusively, andthe remaining 30 percent drew support fromvarious combinations of public and private funds.(Table 2).Figure1 . Community Health Advisor survey respondents per stateStateFederalPrivate foundationsLocalNonprofitVoluntary agencies56.46.26.21.20.3.Most () of the organizations delivering CHA programs described themselves as community basedorganizations, and included local health departments, local hospitals, and clinics. Only of theprograms were delivered by state health departments (Figure 2).In of the programs, CHAs weremembers of the target community.In most cases, CHAs were trained by local health educators andnurses. Most CHA interventions were conducted in homes () and in other community sites such asschools, worksites, religious institutions, public health clinics, and medical clinics. Some programsxnFigure 2. Organizations thatdeliver CHA Programs100c4)v0)a.CommunityLevelOrgs.StateHealthDept.SchoolSystemUniversitywere conducted in community and senior citizencenters, soup kitchens, and food pantries.Although the great majority () of programsreached adult women, a large proportion () ofprograms reported having males as their clients.Most programs served the following racial andethnic groups: whites (served by of pro grams), blacks (), and Hispanics (). Amuch smaller percentage of programs reportedserving Asians/Pacific Islanders () andAlaska natives ().Over half of the programs that responded in cluded counseling on pregnancy (), nutrition(), family planning (), substance abuse(), and HIV/AIDS (). Violence waslisted as a topic in of the programs. Chronicdiseases were also addressed in a substantialpercentage of programs: of programs addressed smoking, addressed cancer, and ad dressed physical activity. Newer areas addressed by CHA programs included mental health and healthissues of the elderly (both areas were addressed in of the programs).We used Eng's classification of CHA roles8 to categorize the different functions that CHAs served.Ninety three percent provided health education and health promotion, conducted outreach, served as patient and client advocates, offered social support, and conducted communityadvocacy. CHAs were less frequently reported to function in assessing risk (), providing transpor tation (), and providing treatment ().CHA recruitment profileRespondents listed the three most effective methods of recruiting CHAs as advertising, word of mouthreferrals, and referrals from community groups. Forty nine percent of respondents said they advertisedfor CHAs in community presentations, local radio and newspapers, religious bulletins, and publicannouncements. Forty five percent used word of mouth recruitment. Thirty four percent solicitedreferrals from community and religious leaders, social workers, and health professionals. Less fre quently used methods were obtaining referrals from current CHAs within their program () andnetworking with other CHA programs ().CHA retention profileThe respondents reported that the best methods of retaining CHAs were to offer training (), andcompensation (), such assalary or wages, incentives, and stipends.Initial training of CHAs varieswidely in format, content, and intensity depending on the type of program and the functions expected ofXlllthe CHA. On the average, agencies provided 40 hours or fewer of initial training and 2 4 hours of in service training per month.Over half () of the respondents said their programs offered certificatesof long term training, via inservices, which provided additional health and community information andresources enabling CHAs to meet client needs.Seventy seven percent of the programs provided compensation. Those that used a CHA more than 10hours per month were more likely to compensate. The average CHA works 40 hours or fewer permonth. Wages ranged from $5 to $9 per hour.Other forms of compensation included child care,reimbursement for travel expenses, and advanced training.Few programs offered health or otherworker benefits. This data was comparable to that of the National Community Health Advisor Study: of CHAs reported being paid and of those paid, were paid $10 per hour or less.A closer look at the remaining responses to this open ended question yielded three themes related toagencies — working environment, standard operating procedures, and scope of work— which seemedto be critical in retaining CHAs.Respondents indicated that agencies must provide a working environment in which CHAs feel respectedas individuals and esteemed for their competence within their communities.One example of how anagency might acknowledge a CHAs worth to the team is to encourage him or her to participate in thedevelopment of program protocols and materials.Respondents indicated the need for an effective communication protocol in the working environmentthat routinely would keep CHAs informed of program results, would encourage information sharing,and would foster team building and mentoring of CHAs by other staff members. They listed manyways of showing appreciation for CHAs, which included incentives, recognition awards and luncheons,specialized training courses, and certification.Respondents from many agencies reported that an initialorientation session and opportunities for continuing education are essential to a successful workingenvironment.Respondents reported that standard operating procedures that help retain CHAs are more people centered than product centered.Matching the CHA's skills with appropriate tasks, offering flexiblework schedules, encouraging individual goal setting, and offering leadership opportunities are standardoperating procedures integral to retaining CHAs.Examples of responses included in the scope of work variable were clear expectations, meaningfulwork, opportunity for development and advancement, group projects, fair work load, and clear stan dards for performance with a well defined job description. Other research indicates that providing morerealistic expectations of what the work entails is a significant factor in preventing worker burnout 16.DiscussionCHA programs support public health efforts to solve complex problems, particularly those that dispro portionately impact members of vulnerable populations such asracial and ethnic minorities and peoplewith low incomes and poor education. The finding that of CHAs are members of their targetxivcommunities suggests that these types of interventions are delivered by indigenous members of thesepopulations in a manner that is consistent with the local cultural beliefs, practices, and social norms.This can allow CHA programs to more effectively promote primary and secondary prevention messagesand services and to increase access to health care access, thereby helping to fill in the gaps in the currenthealth care system.The finding that community groups such as local health departments, local social service agencies, andclinics operate most programs suggests that these organizations use existing social networks to promotehealth. CHAs also work through social networks, such as families, friends, neighborhood groups,churches, and worksites.CHAs thus link individuals and families with health and social servicesagencies in the community 717, help health professionals understand the community's priorities andhealth concerns, and promote positive, healthful behaviors among their neighbors U8.The survey results show that CHA programs reach all age, racial, and ethnic groups in the United Statesin both rural and urban areas. They serve a broader population than might be expected from reading thepublished descriptions of individual CHA programs.It is not surprising to see the large percentage ofCHA programs that serve black and Hispanic populations. Research findings support the effectivenessof using the CHA strategy in these populations in which members operate through social networks andtraditionally rely on informal health care networks 4 5 19 26.However, the finding that a larger percentageof programs focused on white populations was unexpected. One explanation is that states with pre dominately white populations submitted more surveys than did those with more diverse populations.Also, some programs, such as those located in rural Appalachia, primarily focus on poor, less educatedwhite clients. We found that most CHA programs are open to all community members, regardless oftheir racial or ethnic background. Thus, respondents may have checked the category for whites on thesurvey even though their program primarily targets other groups. The low number of programs servingNative Americans may be due to the lower than expected response rate from Native American pro grams. We received a few responses from individualNative American programs and one response from theIndian Health Service office (representing over1 ,500Community Health Representatives in all IHS pro grams).Figure 3. Focus of CHA ProgramsOver half of the programs integrate urgent publichealth topics into traditional health interventionsinvolving maternal and child health, adolescenthealth, and college peer health interventions.Theseurgent topics included substance abuse (), sexualbehavior (), HIV/AIDS (), tobacco control(), and violence () (Figure 3). A smallernumber of programs (25 ) indicated that theyaddress injury prevention, physical activity, andchronic disease control. Less frequently coveredtopics included mental health and health issues of theelderly (). These trends show that CHA_JHLNutritionMCHUrgentareasChronicdiseasexvprograms are responsive to pressing contemporary public health issues. The significance of these trendsis the diffusion of the CHA strategy from the traditional focus on maternal and child health and nutri tion to newer issues in health promotion and disease prevention.Our analysis indicates that the role of the CHA overwhelmingly involves health promotion and educationrather than treatment.This finding is consistent with research results that show that throughout the past25 years CHAs consistently have acted as resources for health information and have assisted with patienteducation26. One exception noted in the literature is the Community Health Aide in Alaskan NativeAmerican communities, who is trained and certified to deliver primary health care on a limited basis2728.RecommendationsThe results of this analysis suggest that agencies exploring the use of CHAs should consider severalissues.First, agencies should develop a long term training plan that includes orientation and continuingeducation, because they appear to be a critical component in retaining CHAs and contribute to programstability. A long term training plan keeps CHAs interested in the program and allows them to vent theirfrustrations, share their experiences, and find creative solutions to problems they encounter.Second, agencies should carefully consider whether to compensate CHAs.This issue is much debatedamong those involved in CHA programs and research. Some fear that compensation elevates CHAs tothe level of paraprofessionals and possibly distances them from their community. Most respondentsprovided at least minimal compensation to CHAs who work more than ten hours per month, and ofthe agencies felt that doing so helped them retain CHAs in their programs.Third, agencies considering the use of CHAs should review their working environments.It is clear thatthose agencies that considered their programs successful do not view CHAs as a source of cheap laborbut as valued members of the agency's team. A management approach that respects CHAs as individu als, respects their culture, provides support, remains trustworthy, and maintains open lines of communi cation enhances the CHAs self esteem, effectiveness, and ultimately their willingness to stay with theprogram. Previous research has shown the value of teaching these concepts to agency staff and securingtheir acceptance of CHAs as integral team members 20.Fourth, agencies should plan a recruitment strategy that includes selection criteria for CHAs and meth ods of identifying appropriate candidates. This survey did not include the characteristics that are mostvalued in CHAs, but desirable characteristics have been documented previously1,8,23 '29.The traditionalmethods of recruiting CHAs—word of mouth and networking referrals—are the most successful.Although these methods are labor intensive, they are reported as the most effective means of findingpeople who are already considered to be lay health advisors by their fellow community members.The results of this analysis underscore a need for further study to determine the number of programs inthe United States using community health advisors, the geographic distribution of such programs, thehealth related issues they address, the characteristics of the agencies that operate them, and the methodsof working with CHAs. This information would help in describing effective recruitment, training, andretention strategies and developing the best guidelines for working with CHAs.xviReferences1.Salber EJ. Lay health advisor as a community health resource. J Health Polit, Policy Law 3(4):469 478,Winter 1979.2.Israel BA, McLeroy KR. Introduction. Health Educ Q 12(1)1 4, Spring 1985.3.Levin LS. Lay health care: the hidden resource in health promotion. Health Promotion Monographs No.3, 26p, July 1983.4.Brownstein JN, Cheal N, Ackermann S, Bassford T, et al. Breast and cervical cancer screening inminority populations: a model for using lay health educators. J Cancer Educ 7(4):321 326, 1992.5.United States Department of Health and Human Services. Community health advisors: models, research,and practice.Selected annotations—programs in the United States, Vol II, Washington, DC, 1994.6.Gottlieb BH.Social networks and social support: an overview of research, practice, and policy implica tions. Health Educ Q 12(1)5 22, 1985.7.Leutz W. The informal community caregiver: a link between the health care system and local residents.Am J Orthopsychiatry 46(4):676 688, 1976.8.Eng E, Young R. Lay health advisors as community change agents. Fam Community Health 15(1)24 40,April 1992.9.Hoff W. Role of the community health aide in public health programs. Public Health Rep 84(11):998 1102, November 1969.10. Giblin PT. Effective utilization and evaluation of indigenous health care workers. Public Health Rep104:4, 361 368, 1989.11. Wallerstein N. Powerlessness, empowerment, and health: implications for health promotion programs.Am J Health Promotion 6(3): 197 205, 1992.12. Barnes MD, Fairbanks J. Problem based strategies promoting community transformation: implicationsfor the community health worker model. Fam Community Health 20(1)54 65, April 1997.13. Rosenthal EL, Wiggens N, Brownstein N, Johnson S, et al. The final report of the National CommunityHealth Advisor Study: weaving the future.University of Arizona, 1998.xvn14. Dean AG, Dean JA, Coulombier D, Brendel KA, et al. Epi Info, Version 5: a word processing, database,and statistics program for epidemiology on microcomputers.Centers for Disease Control and Preven tion, Atlanta, GA, USA, 199415. Strauss A, Corbin J. Basis of qualitative reseach: grounded theory, procedures, and techniques. SagePublicatons, Newberry Park, 1990.16. Maslanka H. Buronout, social support and AIDS volunteers. Aids Care 8(2)195 206, 1996.17. Larson K, McGuire J, Watkins E, et al. Maternal care coordination for migrant farmworker women:program structure and evaluation of effects on use of prenatal care and birth outcome.J Rural Health8(2):128 133, 1992.18. Sander Phillips K. A model for health promotion in ethnic minority families. Wellness Lecture Series,October 1991.19. Eng E, Hatch J, Callan A.Institutionalizing social support through the church and into the community.Health Educ Q 12(l):81 92, Spring 1985.20. Meister J, Warrick L, de Zapien J, et al. Using lay health workers: case study of a community basedprenatal intervention. Journal of Community Health 17(1): 37 47, 1992.21.Warrick H, Wood A, Meister J, et al. Evaluation of a peer health worker prenatal outreach and educationprogram for Hispanic farmworker families. J Community Health 17(1): 13 26, 1992.22. Pew Health Professions Commission. Community health workers: integral yet often overlooked mem bers of the health care workforce. University of California Center for the Health Professions, SanFrancisco, 1994.23. Watkins EL, Harlan C, Eng E, Gansky SA, et al. Assessing the effectiveness of lay health advisors withmigrant farmworkers. Fam Community Health 16(4):72 87, 1994.24. McFarlane J, Fehir J. De Madres a Madres: a community, primary health care program based on em powerment. Health Educ Q 21(2):388 394, 1994.25. Eng E. The save our sisters project: a social network strategy for reaching rural black women. CancerSupplement 72(3): 1071 1077, 1994.26. Wilkinson, DY. Indigenous Community Health Workers in the 1960's and beyond In Health issues in theblack community, edited by RL Braithwaite and SE Taylor, Jossey Bass Publishers, San Francisco, 1992,pp.255 266.27. Haraldson S. Alaskan community aide scheme: a successful rural health program. NY State J Medicine90(2):61 63, February 1990.xviii28. O'Hare Devereaux M, Reeves W, Curtis E. Alaskan health aide: a successful model of family andcommunity health. Fam Community Medicine3(2):7 1 84, August 1980.29. Werner D, Bower B. Helping health workers learn. The Hesperian Foundation, Palo Alto, CA, 1982.xixArticle 2Roles and Competencies of Urban and Rural Community Health Advisors:Findings and Implications for Practice from the National Community Health Advisor StudyJ. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.; Noel Wiggins, MSPH; E. Lee Rosenthal, MPH; Joel S. Meister, Ph.D.;Yvonne Lacey; Aminyah MuhammadJ. N. Brownstein is a Health Education Specialist, Centers for Disease Control, National Center forChronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Atlanta, GA. N. Wiggins is a Health ServicesSpecialist, Multnomah County Health Department, Portland, OR. E. Lee Rosenthal, MPH, is the Direc tor of the National Community Health Advisor Study, Tucson, AZ. Joel S. Meister, Ph.D., is ResearchAssociate Professor at the Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Tucson,AZ. Yvonne Lacey is a Community Health Worker Specialist in the Health Promotion Division, Healthand Human Services Department, Berkley, CA. Aminyah Muhammad is a Family Home Visitor, ForLove of Children/Healthy Families America, Washington, DC.The authors wish to acknowledge assistance provided by Robert A. Pollard, MA, of the National Centerfor Disease Control and Prevention and Jill Guernsey de Zapien and Maia Ingram of the University ofArizona Rural Health Office.Address correspondence to Nell Brownstein, Ph.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,