place where resources for testing and vaccinations are limited. During the pandemic, the Network Steering Committee has spearheaded the coordination of COVID 19 response efforts, mobilizing to ensure Red Hook residents have the latest information about the virus and have access to essential resources. Although this work was done in person when possible, much of the resource sharing was accomplished through the Red Hook HUB, a website where anyone can post information and resources relevant to Red Hook. The Network also supported Alex House Project in obtaining a grant of $30,000 that enabled them to provide families with mini grants to alleviate financial strain exacerbated by the pandemic. 67 Since the beginning of 2021, the Network has worked to expand access to vaccines and testing, focusing on Red Hook Houses, where we learned that the vaccine rates were only at compared with in the greater 11231 zip code, which also includes higher income neighborhoods such as Carroll Gardens and Cobble Hill. In order to respond to the diverse needs surrounding the vaccine, particularly education and access, the Network facilitated the following outcomes: ● Six vaccine and COVID 19 education events with CBOs and schools in Red Hook featuring medical professionals from the NYU Langone Health network; ● 1,000+ individuals vaccinated through vaccination days in partnership with Nate’s Pharmacy, including mass vaccination days serving 250 people per day; ● Weekly booster shot opportunities in partnership with Nate’s Pharmacy averaging around 20 individuals receiving their booster shots per day; and ● A vaccine pop up at PS 15 in partnership with Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Health and Housing Workgroup The Network launched a Health and Housing Workgroup in November 2021 in response to the health concerns illuminated in the CHNAA that revolve around the intersection of health and housing, particularly in New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA). This workgroup is focused on health and housing needs in Red Hook’s public housing community, the current strategies aimed at addressing needs, and conducting a gap analysis to identify potential areas of focus moving forward. Workgroup members have also been collaborating on how to better support and advocate for NYCHA tenants who are eligible for submitting reasonable accommodation requests. These requests allow public housing residents to relocate or get improvements to their apartments based on disability or medical condition. They require the approval of a medical provider, which can be a barrier for some residents. The Network coordinated a training session with NYCHA, Red Hook Initiative, Red Hook Community Justice Center and the Network’s Red Hook Community Health Worker, and is also leveraging the 68 relationships within NYU Langone Health’s network for improving the medical provider documentation process. Access to Care Workgroup Addressing the shortage of healthcare providers in the neighborhood, the Network took a two prong approach, focusing on (1) increasing access to care opportunities that exist outside of Red Hook; and (2) working to bring more healthcare services into the Red Hook community. In collaboration with the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Network partners have begun to plan for the opening of a Family Health Center in Red Hook at the beginning of 2023. The Access to Care Workgroup is committed to centering community voice and needs within the services of the health center including, but not limited to, employment opportunities, health center partnerships with existing Red Hook organizations, and the services provided at the center. Plans Over the next three years we anticipate reaching 750 Red Hook residents, and engaging eight organizations and service providers through RHCHN initiatives. Community Health Worker Program: The Network is committed to the success and expansion of the CHW program in Red Hook by ensuring that we facilitate new partnerships with organizations whose constituents can benefit from community health workers. Each month the Network aims to refer at least 20 Red Hook residents to the CHW, reaching 750 Red Hook residents over the next three years. Our goal is for of Red Hook residents who received CHW services to have improved access to health and wellbeing resources. Network Workgroups: Over the next three years, the Red Hook Community Health Network plans to grow it membership to include six new Network members who can support the critical work around access to care and health and housing. The Network also plans to engage more community residents by providing leadership roles as co chairs of the workgroups and more structured pathways to facilitate their participation. Strategies for this process will be in line with those outlined in the Community Service Plan’s CBPA and anti racist principles. We will grow from six to eight community organizations and from four to six community residents actively serving on RHCHN Workgroups. Year 1 Workgroups will include Steering Committee, Health and Housing, and Access to Care. Each group will conduct gap analyses. The Steering Committee will continue to oversee the structure and mission of the RHCHN. The Health and Housing Workgroup places public housing residents at the forefront and will identify and implement evidence based strategies to address mold, lead, and other housing issues that significantly impact the health of NYCHA tenants in Red Hook. The Access to Care Workgroup will focus on the Red Hook Family Health Center opening in 2023. The Network will continue to advocate for ways Red Hook residents can continually provide the health center with helpful feedback and support to ensure the care residents receive is appropriate and congruent with their needs. The Access to Care Workgroup will develop a shared understanding of goals and strategies to support the health center and ensure that medically underserved Red Hook residents, particularly those residing in NYCHA housing, are connected to services. 69 7. Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center The Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center (CHW RRC) was launched in 2018 to create a strategic approach to leveraging NYU Langone's extensive CHW related knowledge and expertise to strengthen and support emerging and existing CHW and patient navigator programs across NYU Langone Health and in the community. The overarching aim of the CHW RRC is to improve health, reduce health inequities, and recognize and help build CHW capacity and leadership. The CHW RRC works towards this goal by cultivating opportunities to enhance CHW leadership and support bi directional learning between CHWs and healthcare systems, providing support and professional development opportunities to this workforce, supporting community clinical linkage models, and stimulating cross project learning of best practices in community and patient engagement. Our CHW initiatives are located in various settings, from community and faith based organizations to primary care practices, hospitals, senior centers, barbershops and hair salons, and low income housing. Initiatives are culturally adapted in close partnership with community based organizations and community residents to address diverse populations’ needs, and they have addressed a wide array of medical and socioeconomic issues. We seek to build on successful partnerships with community based organizations and our experience working directly with community members to advance resident health and improve health equity through effective CHW programs. Progress and Impact Since its launch in 2018, the CHW RRC has significantly expanded its scope and reach. While much of our focus remains on strengthening the work and capacity of CHWs at NYULH who work in diverse communities, we have greatly broadened our engagement with other institutions and CBOs in New York City and nationally. We currently maintain an email list of over 2,100 subscribers. The CHW RRC Stakeholder Group has continued to meet regularly to set priorities and implement the Center's vision. This group includes researchers, staff, and CHWs from the NYULH community. An essential component of the CHW RRC is the CHW Learning Community, which leverages CHW thought leadership and strategic planning to foster social support and provide professional development opportunities for staff across the NYU Langone system who work as CHWs, patient navigators, and similar positions. The CHW Learning Community met in person quarterly throughout 2019 and, since the onset of the COVID 19 pandemic, has shifted to more frequent virtual events, trainings, and Priority Action Areas § Foster social support and provide professional development and leadership opportunities for staff across the NYU Langone system who work as CHWs and patient navigators, and in similar roles; § Provide technical support related to CHW programs at any point in the lifecycle of a project; § Maintain a living library of templates and resources for organizations and researchers to access as they launch or refine CHW programs and studies; and § Bring together staff of CHW initiatives across New York City to discuss the current landscape, develop partnerships, explore sustainability models, and advocate for resources. 70 workshops to build and sustain community across programs. It is advised and led by a rotating group of 5 6 CHWs who comprise the CHW Learning Committee. In March 2020, when NYC became the epicenter of the COVID 19 pandemic, the CHW RRC developed the CHW Wellness Survey in response to CHW Learning Committee suggestions. The survey aims to better understand the needs of the CHW Learning Community as staff adjusted to new working environments and were experiencing acute challenges, both professionally and personally. We have used results of this quarterly survey for program planning, such as a six week mindfulness training series for CHWs to support personal wellbeing and build competencies in integrative health techniques for self care among CHWs. In April 2021, we launched a monthly virtual mental health support group specifically for CHWs, facilitated by a clinician at NYU Langone Long Island. The survey results also helped us identify webinar topics of interest for the CHW Learning Community. While some professional development webinars and trainings are for NYULH staff, the majority of our webinars and training during the COVID 19 pandemic are open to the public and our community partners to provide tools and information to frontline health workers. Between May 2020 and December 2021, the CHW RRC hosted nine webinars on topics related to COVID 19, reaching 1,290 attendees from over 300 organizations across the United States, featuring speakers from NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, community based organizations, academic institutions, and medical practices. Each community facing webinar is moderated by a CHW. Webinar topics included “Tobacco Prevention,” “Nutrition Management,” and “Mental Health,” reaching over 100 attendees from more than 20 organizations. Professional development webinars covered “Career Growth and Development” and “Patient Recruitment and Outreach.” reaching over 370 attendees across nearly 130 organizations. In addition to these trainings, on September 28th, 2021, five CHWs participated in a lecture and panel discussion for third year medical students at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. This was a two session panel discussion which gave medical students the opportunity to learn directly from CHWs regarding their critical role in addressing the social determinants of health and gave medical students the opportunity to ask CHWs questions directly to better understand how CHWs can serve as a bridge between the community and the 71 clinic. Both CHWs and medical students found this to be a very rewarding session, and these panel discussions have become a regular component of medical student education. In July 2020, the CHW RRC published the first volume of the quarterly CHW Learning Community Newsletter, which highlights CHWs and patient navigators’ critical role by showcasing professional and personal success stories and Learning Community members’ creative projects. The newsletter is distributed to a listserv, which includes members of the CHW RRC Learning Community and Stakeholder Group, CHW supervisors, and a growing network of community partners and organizations. The sixth volume of the newsletter will be published in February 2022. Additional activities of the CHW RRC include: • The CHW RRC has provided technical support and guidance to partner CBOs, such as Grand Street Guild, Henry Street Settlement, Caribbean Women's Health Association, and Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement, Inc., as well as government organizations such as the New York City Housing Authority and Cambridge Housing Authority as they launched or evaluated their CHW projects and programs. • The CHW RRC is a collaborating partner on a pilot project with Mount Sinai and NYC Health + Hospitals/Queens Hospital, "Community Healthcare Workers Promoting Equity in Vaccine Access and Trust during the COVID 19 pandemic (CHWs PREVENT COVID)." We helped to develop and facilitate a training on "Using Motivational Interviewing Skills to Talk to Patients about COVID 19 Vaccine Hesitancy," as well as a pre post survey for evaluating training effectiveness. • We have been serving as a human resources hub for programs looking to hire CHWs by sharing job opportunities with CHW training programs in NYC at Make the Road New York and LaGuardia Community College, and have helped facilitate resume exchanges between projects across NYULH. • We continue in the planning stages of an online public facing document repository that will include resources such as hiring and interview guides, training resources, surveys, data collection forms, participant education modules, consent forms, and grant proposals. We conducted end user interviews with internal and external CHW program supervisors and have started the process of collecting relevant documents from CHW projects at NYULH to include in the repository. Compiled documents and resources to date are inventoried on an Excel spreadsheet with hyperlinks to files currently hosted in a OneDrive folder. To strengthen capacity and increase knowledge at the local level, the CHW RRC brings together staff and leadership of CHW initiatives across New York City to discuss the current CHW workforce landscape, develop partnerships, explore sustainability models, and advocate for resources. More than 350 people 72 from 31 organizations across the United States attended our inaugural CHW Innovations Summit in November 2020, “Making Models Last Current and Future Sustainability for the Community Health Worker Workforce.” Plans Responding to the COVID 19, the CHW RRC pivoted to support CHW staff and the communities they serve, addressing the needs outlines in Section I.D.1. Plans for 2022 2025 return to and extend some of the earlier program priorities: • Expand the reach and impact of the CHW RRC, continuing to grow our network; • Complete development of a Repository of documents and resources in partnership with NYULH digital communications and an external consultant; • Synthesize best practices for CHW program implementation and create standardized protocols for supervision, training, outreach, and case management, and assist with adaptation to specific programs; • Continue to build CHW Learning Community capacity through targeted professional development activities, mentoring, and involvement in CHW RRC committees and webinars; • Continue to promote CHW wellness through a range of community building, support, and engagement activities, including regular surveys, mental health and/or self care support groups, recognition ceremonies, and celebrations; • Engage external partners in NYC to establish a centralized website for posting CHW job opportunities; • Continue to advocate for CHW equity in hiring and career advancement opportunities; • Organize an annual CHW Summit on a timely theme; • Partner on research and evaluation projects aimed at strengthening and better understanding the role of CHWs in promoting the health of vulnerable communities; • Integrate CHW RRC activities with programs to develop an integrated community clinical linkage model to improve health and wellness outcomes in Sunset Park, Brooklyn; and • Expand webinar reach to more non English speaking communities by offering simultaneous interpretation during webinar events. 8. Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium The Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium (Brooklyn Consortium) formed after a year long assessment of the health and housing needs of the Sunset Park and neighboring areas in Southwest Brooklyn, completed in early 2018. Working closely with colleagues who created the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, we have followed a similar model and established a Consortium in Brooklyn. 73 With an initial focus on Southwest Brooklyn, we invited experts across the NYU Langone Health system and various community partner organizations to join the Brooklyn Consortium Steering Committee. Since June 201 8, the Committee has expanded and meets regularly to advise and oversee the development of the Brooklyn Consortium’s mission and goals as well as its progress in associated activities that have expanded across Brooklyn. From June 2020 to October 2020, we formed an ad hoc Strategic Planning Group within the Steering Committee to update the Brooklyn Consortium’s mission statement and to refine priority areas. Current member organizations of the Steering Committee include: Breaking Ground, CAMBA, Corporation for Supportive Housing, Empire BlueCross BlueShield HealthPlus, Enterprise Community Partners, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, Maimonides Medical Center, RiseBoro Community Partnership, and the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium. The mission of the Brooklyn Consortium is to act as a collaborative network of health care, housing, homeless and social services organizations, and government partners with the shared goal of improving health equity and housing stability by fostering cross sector relationships, informing policy, and building capacity of frontline workers to support Brooklyn residents with unmet health and housing needs. Through capacity building activities and cross sector collaboration, the priorities areas of the Brooklyn Consortium are to: • Provide trainings, events and activities to educate and build relationships among frontline workers and organizations across Brooklyn; • Explore best practices and advocate for improved screening and data sharing across sectors throughout Brooklyn and New York City; • Lend support and technical assistance to other health and housing related efforts to share learning, promote best practices, avoid duplication, and bring successful efforts to scale; and • Develop a vision statement concerning the need to address structural racism as root causes of housing and health inequities, and integrate a diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility lens to the Brooklyn Consortium’s work. Progress and Impact Since September 2019, the work of the Brooklyn Consortium has accelerated, transformed and expanded in response to the intersecting health and housing crises exacerbated by the COVID 19 pandemic. Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium Goals § Expand understanding of the health care, housing, and related needs of Brooklyn residents § Build and strengthen relationships and communication among stakeholders serving a shared population § Share, develop, and advocate for resources and policies that address inequities in health and housing, and amplify the work of partners doing similar work § Support policies and practices that address the impact of structural racism on health and housing 74 Responding to a need for better care coordination for housing insecure clients and patients, the Brooklyn Consortium hosted one in person and three virtual interagency case conferences that brought together stakeholders from homeless outreach, supportive housing and social service staff with hospital emergency department clinicians, inpatient social workers, and discharge planners. Through presenting case studies and workflow issues, participants offered expertise and shared resources to collaboratively troubleshoot solutions for their patients and clients as well as build relationships with providers across sectors. The Program Director of Breaking Ground’s Street to Home Program, who is a Brooklyn Consortium Steering Committee member, facilitates these meetings and partners from NYC Health + Hospitals’ Safety Net Clinics, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, and Comunilife frequently participate. In partnership with the Legal Aid Society and New York Legal Assistance Group’s (NYLAG) LegalHealth division, as well as our colleagues at the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, we organized a number of trainings to help build the capacity of frontline staff in addressing housing and health related needs. Our most popular trainings have focused on topics surrounding eviction and homelessness prevention, including 6 sessions on rental assistance (CityFHEPS and the Emergency Rental Assistance Program), 3 on shelter rights, 3 on housing court proceedings, and 3 on coordinated data sharing systems. Between September 2019 and February 2020, the Brooklyn Consortium hosted 4 in person trainings with 126 participants in Downtown Brooklyn and Sunset Park. Our transition to virtual trainings due to the COVID 19 pandemic increased people’s ability to attend our trainings as well as our capacity to host them. Since March 2020, we have organized 19 trainings and expanded our reach to approximately 2370 participants across the City. As part of our COVID 19 pandemic response, the Brooklyn and Bronx Consortia co organized 12 town halls that provided the opportunity for frontline staff to learn about citywide resources and updated guidance for homeless patients and housing insecure clients. Featuring presentations and Q&A discussions, more than 1,100 participants across over 170 organizations were able to hear directly from government agency representatives and health experts. All recordings and resources from these town halls were disseminated via our newsletter and posted on the Bronx Consortium’s webpage. Throughout these town halls, of survey respondents (n=283) agreed or strongly agreed that they planned to apply information used during a town hall in their work. Example COVID 19 Town Hall Topics: Isolation and De densification Hotels Food Assistance Substance Use Treatment Emergency Rental Assistance Vaccinations for Homeless Individuals Mental Health for Frontline Workforce Example Guest Speaker Affiliations: Janian Medical Care NYC Dept. of Homeless Services NYC Health + Hospitals Corporation NYC Office of Emergency Management NYC DOHMH NYC Human Resources Administration NYU Grossman School of Medicine Manhattan Outreach Consortium St. Barnabas Health System 75 Starting in December 2020, the Brooklyn Consortium joined the Bronx Consortium to co organize their Annual Convenings. These two day events, now virtual, have highlighted pressing issues, cross sector program innovations, and policy changes in response to the COVID 19 pandemic, as well as lessons learned and opportunities for further collaboration. Engaging with 878 total viewers in topics relevant in New York City, more than 40 speakers from our two convenings featured representatives from multiple community based organizations; housing, health care and social services providers; government agencies and elected officials; and advocacy organizations. Other activities of the Brooklyn Consortium have included: • Following the Bronx Consortium model, housing marketplaces are networking opportunities for supportive housing providers and frontline staff to explore housing options for specific populations. At our March 2021 housing marketplace (199 attendees), we showcased five housing providers (CAMBA, Catholic Charities, Comunilife, Concern for Independent Living, and SUS) who offer services for clients with severe mental illness. After the providers gave brief overviews of their programs, participants transitioned to Zoom “breakout rooms” and took turns asking further details surrounding eligibility, referral steps, COVID 19 related protocols, onsite health services, and overall “fit” in potential housing placement. This information was compiled in a packet and distributed to event participants. With NYC Continuum of Care (CoC)’s new Coordinated Assessment Placement System (CAPS) to streamline housing program referrals and applications, we convened a data sharing workgroup to strategize the transition from housing marketplaces to virtual CAPS trainings. • The Hospital Homeless Count aims to better understand and advocate for the “hidden homeless” population who would otherwise be missed from New York City’s official point in time count, and to learn about the implications of homelessness on the health care system (see Section I.D.2). The Brooklyn Consortium helped build relationships with hospital emergency department teams throughout New York City, engaged our network to recruit volunteers, and assisted with survey design and write up of a final report with key findings. On January 27, 2020, we identified 226 individuals experiencing unsheltered homelessness sleeping and/or seeking care in 30 hospitals. Due to the COVID 19 pandemic, our Count was cancelled in 2021 and postponed in 2022. • In early 2020, the Brooklyn Consortium and other CSP team members were asked by NYC DOHMH’s Center for Health Equity and Wellness to evaluate the Bureau of Equitable Health System’s Healthcare Referrals for Homeless Prevention (HRHP) pilot program, a closed loop standardized referral mechanism between hospitals and homelessness prevention community based (Homebase) organizations to address housing instability and improve health outcomes. After conducting 11 in depth interviews and 3 focus groups with representatives from Homebase programs, hospitals, and city agencies, the team provided recommendations on optimizing program implementation. 76 Another vital aspect of the Brooklyn Consortium’s work involves discussing, disseminating, and mobilizing our network to support programs and policy recommendations that address inequities at the intersection of health and housing. Some of our activities in this area have included: • In early April 2020, the Consortium co wrote and disseminated a Letter from Hospital Providers Regarding COVID 19 and Homelessness in New York City, which was submitted to local and state officials with signatures from 503 New York City frontline physicians, social workers, nurses, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, care managers, and other health professionals. Policy recommendations included: streamlining the discharging process among homeless patients, de densifying congregate homeless shelters and moving individuals into private rooms, ending street sweeps of homeless encampments, and increasing city transparency regarding COVID 19 infection and death among the homeless population. This letter received press coverage on Politico and VICE. • With the United Hospital Fund, in October 2019, we participated in a roundtable discussion and provided recommendations that appear in The Road Forward: Framework for a Population Health Approach to Health and Housing Partnerships, a project of the New York City Population Health Improvement Program to better understand health and housing interdependencies and advance a viable framework. The Consortium was featured in the report as well as in a commentary piece as a helpful model for multisector collaborations. • We provided recommendations that were included in the United for Housing Campaign, which defined a new affordable housing platform for the next 2021 New York City mayoral administration. • In partnership with the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, in May 2020 we started a biweekly e newsletter that includes Consortia events and activities, helpful resources for frontline providers, noteworthy developments in health and housing advocacy and research, and upcoming events hosted by partner organizations. In 2021, we sent out 27 newsletter issues and gained 1,988 new subscribers, reaching a total of 3,750 subscribers. • In April 2020, we contributed to the Health Affairs’ special issue on integrating social services and health with a paper titled “The Development of Health and Housing Consortia in New York City,” and Health Affairs Blog piece titled “Health & Housing Consortia: Responding to COVID 19 Through Cross Sector Learning and Collaboration.” • In April 2021, we developed a public webpage that describes our mission, goals, and activities within the Community Service Plan section of the NYU Langone Health website. Plans Over the course of the next three years, the Brooklyn Consortium will engage in a strategic planning process with the Bronx Consortium to establish plans for consolidating the work of both Consortia under one umbrella. During this time, the Brooklyn Consortium will continue with its programmatic activities, including those in partnership with the Bronx Consortium, and take on or develop new projects as needs arise. We anticipate those to include: • Continue offering, with legal partners, a robust training series for front line workers on eviction prevention, rental arrears, income maximization, and obtaining affordable housing benefits; • Organizing additional training series focused on social determinants of health and specific vulnerable populations; 77 • Continue co organizing an Annual Convening that includes current topics at the intersection of health and housing relevant to health care and housing providers; • Continue collaborating with the Bronx Consortium on the annual Hospital Homeless Count; • Co organizing with the Bronx Consortium a convening on medical respite and funding for new medical respite pilots through the NYS Medicaid Office; • Continuing the Brooklyn focused interagency case conferences to improve communication between hospitals and homeless service providers, and with Department of Homeless Services; • Expanding membership of the Brooklyn Consortium’s Steering Committee to other health and housing advocates not yet represented and modifying or expanding priority areas as needed based on new membership; • Leading a workgroup and/or convening on developing a citywide hospital housing security screener and standardized data collection of housing status; • Pursuing new collaborations with other community partners and Community Service Plan projects on relevant projects, events, and research; and • Offering assistance to partner organizations’ health and housing efforts. 9. Health x Housing Lab Recognizing the importance of safe and stable housing for health, the Health x Housing (“health by housing”) Lab was created in 2021. The Lab’s mission is to provide evidence based guidance for initiatives sitting at the intersection of health and housing and to advance health and health equity by contributing toward a future in which all people have safe, stable, and affordable housing. The Lab focuses on three key activities: • Conducting research to build the evidence base for initiatives, programs, and policies at the intersection of health and housing; • Informing policy and programs related to health and housing through evidence based advising and research dissemination; and • Providing education to expand the reach of practice relevant evidence on health and housing. A portion of the Health x Housing Lab’s work is supported by the NYU Langone Community Service Plan, with other funding from external grants and internal Department of Population Health resources. As part of the Community Service Plan, the Lab follows its guiding principles and commitment to improving health equity and addressing the role of structural racism in health disparities through a community based participatory approach to program development, implementation, evaluation, and research. 78 The Lab’s Advisory Committee includes people with lived expertise of homelessness and housing instability, as well as representatives from organizations across sectors relevant to health and housing. The Committee developed the Lab’s mission and advises and guides the Lab’s priorities. Committee members have also participated in or helped to organize Lab events. The first Advisory Committee meeting was held on May 17th, 2021 and the committee has met bimonthly since then. The Health x Housing Lab’s activities are guided by the following values, which were written collaboratively with the Advisory Committee: • Housing and health care are human rights and should be provided as public goods. • Health care, housing, and homeless services systems should do no harm. • Housing and homeless services should foster health and wellness across the lifespan. • People who have experienced homelessness and housing instability are experts by experience and their perspectives and input should be valued, uplifted, and integrated with other forms of evidence such as that produced by rigorous research. • Systemic racism—which has produced inequities in housing and health—must be confronted directly, including in developing, conducting, and disseminating research. Progress and Impact Since its launch in 2021, the Health x Housing Lab has made significant progress towards developing its key focus areas. In addition to establishing the Advisory Committee, the Lab’s educational activities have included the launching of a Postdoctoral Fellowship and Summer Scholars Program, which both are intended to foster the education and career development of future leaders at the intersection of health and housing. The Postdoctoral Fellowship aims to develop new faculty leaders in research related to health and housing. We host one fellow for a two year term; the first postdoctoral fellow was hired in June 2021. The goal of the 10 week Lab Summer Scholars Program is to build a pipeline and foster the career development of individuals dedicated to future work at the intersection of health and housing. Students with a history of lived experience of homelessness or housing insecurity or who come from racial or ethnic backgrounds underrepresented in medicine are particularly encouraged to apply. We hosted our first Summer Scholar from June August 2021. Among other projects, the Summer Scholar collaborated with the organization New Alternatives to organize an event to educate medical students about challenges faced by homeless youth and led a personal hygiene supply drive. The Lab Advisory Committee: In addition to committee members with lived experience of homelessness, other committee members are from the following organizations: § Settlement Housing Fund § Trinity Church Wall Street § Homeless Services United § NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene § RxHome (year one) § National Health Care for the Homeless Council § Center for Urban Community Services § NYC Health + Hospitals 79 The Health x Housing Lab has hosted seminars and events with the goal of disseminating evidence based information, amplifying the voices of people with lived experience of homelessness and housing insecurity, and educating a wide audience across sectors. In July 2021, the Lab hosted and co sponsored a virtual event titled, “Flipping the Script: A Homeless Teach In for Health Care Workers.” People with lived experience of homelessness taught attendees about how homelessness and housing insecurity affect health, and how better care can be provided. The 440 attendees included health care students and trainees, health care practitioners (e.g., physicians, nurses), care managers, homeless services providers, policymakers, and others. Flipping the Script webinars will be a recurring Health x Housing Lab event that fill a gap in medical education on housing and homelessness, and re envision how that education is provided. In addition to Flipping the Script events, the Health x Housing Lab hosts a Seminar Series that highlights work and research at the intersection of health and housing, with a focus on moving research to action. Seminars incorporate knowledge from research, practice, and lived experience. The inaugural seminar, titled Crisis Response, Durable Lessons: Hotel Moves and Health During the COVID 19 Pandemic, was held on November 22nd, 2021. This event featured panelists from academia and the homeless services sector presenting qualitative and quantitative evidence on the health impacts of the pandemic hoteling initiative, and panelists who discussed their own experiences living in these hotels. The 150 attendees spanned academia, government, nonprofit organizations, foundations, advocates, and people with lived experience of homelessness themselves, both from NYC and from around the country. In addition to these educational activities, the Health x Housing Lab has begun to develop its research portfolio. With assistance from a grant from the Robin Hood Foundation, we are partnering with NYC Health + Hospitals and Test & Trace to evaluate a $1,000 unconditional cash transfer program that they implemented for low income New Yorkers who contracted or were exposed to COVID 19. As part of this mixed methods evaluation, Lab team members developed a quantitative survey and qualitative interview guide to assess the impact of the cash transfer program on recipients’ lives. Team members are collecting surveys in English and Spanish from a random sample of 150 program recipients, and a qualitative researcher is conducting in depth interviews with 20 survey respondents. This research will add to the growing evidence base about the effectiveness of unconditional cash transfer programs for low income populations. We have also begun planning an evaluation of a nurse triage line service offered at NYC Department of Homeless Services shelters. For this project, Health x Housing Lab team members will conduct in depth interviews with shelter residents and staff with experience implementing and/or utilizing the nurse triage line. Combined with quantitative analysis being conducted by other NYU faculty, this research will assess the acceptability, feasibility, and effectiveness of nurse triage lines in homeless shelter settings as a means to enhance access to needed medical care and reduce emergency department and 911 use. Support from the Community Service Plan allows the Health x Housing Lab to offer significant in kind resources in conducting high quality, program and policy relevant research projects with government and community stakeholders. Flipping the Script: Homeless Teach in for Health Care Workers 80 Other key activities of the Health x Housing Lab over the past year include: • In May 2021, the Lab Director presented at the British Medical Journal COVID Unknowns webinar series on COVID 19 and homelessness. Over 1,800 people registered for the event. • In September 2021, the Lab postdoctoral fellow presented research on renter insecurity as an indicator of federal fair housing progress at a Centre for Homelessness Impact Research Network virtual meeting. • In October 2021, the Lab Director was an invited presenter at the webinar Ending Homelessness in NYC: Where Do We Stand? hosted by Care for the Homeless with over 200 attendees. • In November 2021, the Lab postdoctoral fellow presented at the Federal Reserve Community Development Research Seminar Series webinar, Toward an Inclusive Recovery: Increasing the Housing Security of Vulnerable Renters Through Rental Assistance, on homelessness and housing insecurity and the associated implications for equity and health. • In December 2021, the postdoctoral fellow presented on the links between housing policy and health at the Health is Housing | Inspiration Series webinar presented by the organization Science & Purpose. • In December 2021, the Director presented the closing remarks at the Health & Housing Consortium’s virtual Annual Convening. • In December 2021, the Director was an invited speaker at the White House Health and Housing Forum, hosted by the White House Office of Public Engagement. • In December 2021, the Director was an invited speaker at the online event, Homelessness & Health: What's the Connection?, hosted by United to End Homelessness. Plans Over the next three years, the Health x Housing Lab will continue to establish itself as a source of trusted information, educational opportunities, and evidence based research. We hope to expand the Lab’s capacity and reach through the following activities: • Continue to host regular seminar and teach in events; • Provide summaries of important studies related to health and housing in accessible formats (infographics or brief key points, social media, etc.), toward the goal of improving translation of research to practice and policy; • Partner with an organization such as the Op Ed Project to provide a private group workshop and mentoring for individuals experiencing homelessness and housing insecurity to develop their skills in writing and successfully pitching op eds; • Create a Health x Housing Lab Speakers Bureau to support and promote the voices