services to understand gaps and barriers and to optimize pathways; o A working conference on Health and Housing to explore intake processes, coding, and best practices for screening; and o Developing and implementing processes for sharing client/patient information and improving communication among different stakeholders, taking into account the need for privacy and confidentiality.  Building capacity and infrastructure of health systems and CBOs to identify and address health/housing issues through: o DSRIP workforce development programs; o Accessing New York State capacity building resources to support CBOs in strengthening their data infrastructure and enhancing their ability to partner with health and housing systems; and o Enhancing client/patient access to legal services, particularly around housing issues.  Exploring ways to build capacity for medical respite services for people who are homeless or unstably housed and have time limited medical needs, and stabilization for people with substance use disorders. Track and coordinate with other health and housing efforts and expand the partnership to include:  Managed care organizations;  City and State officials;  Policymakers; and  Leaders of related efforts. Create and prioritize longer term strategies, which might include:  Establishing a respite program for homeless or unstably housed patients;  Establishing a stabilization center for people with substance use disorders;  Developing a policy agenda and working with community leaders, policymakers, and elected officials to educate them about the deleterious health effects of the housing crisis and health related housing needs in the community; and  Developing infrastructure to measure need and impact including health outcomes, financial impact, and patient and staff satisfaction. 4 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank Henie Lustgarten and Bonnie Mohan, two founders of The Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, who assisted us with the needs assessment and environmental scan of housing in Southwest Brooklyn and provided invaluable guidance throughout this process. We also thank the following organizations and NYU Langone staff in Brooklyn for giving their time and sharing their experiences, which were invaluable to conducting this needs assessment: Arab American Family Support Center Brooklyn Health Home CAMBA Caribbean Women’s Health Association Center for Urban Community Services Chinese American Planning Council Mixteca Organization Inc. NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS CBO partners NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Social Worker, Psychiatric Emergency Department Director, Patient Navigation Center Chief of Service, Emergency Department Director of Social Work NYU Langone Health Behavioral Health Services, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Sunset Terrace Executive Director, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone/Vice President for Community Health Chief Medical Officer, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone/Medical Director, NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS DSRIP Director, NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS Community Medicine Medical Director, Behavioral Health Director of Adolescent Health Services and Coordinator of Social Work Services, Project Reach Youth RiseBoro Community Partnership Thank you to James David, Sue Kaplan and Jennifer Norton for their help in preparing this report, as well as Kelly Doran, Anne Meara and Kathleen Hopkins for invaluable input and comments. Analysis of secondary demographic and housing data was provided by Jennifer Norton. 5 I. OVERVIEW OF HOUSING AND HEALTH In recent years, numerous reports and papers have been written about the intersection of housing and health.1 A recent report by the American Hospital Association entitled Housing and the Role of Hospitals, succinctly summarizes the association between housing instability and poor health and increased health care utilization: Table 1. Types of Housing Instability and Related Health Conditions Housing Issue Examples Related Health Conditions Homelessness  Total lack of shelter  Residence in transitional or emergency shelters  Increased rates of chronic and infectious conditions (e.g., diabetes, asthma, COPD and tuberculosis)  Mental health issues, including depression and elevated stress  Developmental delays in children Lack of affordable housing  Severe rent burden  Overcrowding  Eviction or foreclosure  Frequent moves  Stress, depression and anxiety disorders  Poor self reported health  Delayed or diminished access to medications and medical care Poor housing conditions  Structural issues  Allergens like mold, asbestos or pests  Chemical exposures  Leaks or problems with insulation, heating and cooling  Asthma or other respiratory issues  Allergic reactions  Lead poisoning, harm to brain development  Other chemical or carcinogenic exposures  Falls and other injuries due to structural issues Health Research & Educational Trust. (2017). Social Determinants of Health Series: Housing and the Role of Hospitals. Chicago: Health Research & Educational Trust. As one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, NYU Langone Health’s “trifold mission to serve, teach, and discover is achieved daily through an integrated academic culture devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research.” In carrying out this mission, NYULH frequently partners across sectors with experts and organizations that address the social determinants of health, including housing experts and providers. For example, through grant funded research (most recently with the support of the Robin Hood Foundation) and through the network of community based services 1 Enterprise Community Partners, Inc., Center for Outcomes Research and Education (CORE). (2016). Health in Housing: Exploring the Intersection between Housing and Health Care. Columbia, MD: Enterprise Community Partners, Inc. Health Research & Educational Trust. (2017). Social Determinants of Health Series: Housing and the Role of Hospitals. Chicago: Health Research & Educational Trust. Mercy Housing, the Low Income Investment Fund for the California Endowment, The Kresge Foundation. (2017). Innovative Models in Health and Housing. San Francisco: The Low Income Investment Fund. Scally, C. P., Waxman, E., Gourevitch, R., & adeeyo, s. (2017). Emerging Strategies for Integrating Health and Housing: Innovations to Sustain, Expand, and Replicate. Washington, DC: Urban Institute. Spillman, B. C., Leopold, J., Allen, E. H., & Blumenthal, P. (2016). Developing Housing and Health Collaborations: Opportunities and Challenges. Washington, DC: Urban Institute. 6 provided by NYU Langone Brooklyn, NYU Langone Health has considerable expertise in homelessness and in housing based interventions to address health and the social determinants of health. Much of this work has been done in partnership with City agencies and with social service providers and housing providers. NYULH also collaborates with NYU’s Furman Center, the premier source of data and research on housing, neighborhoods, and urban policy in New York City. II. NEEDS ASSESSMENT Methodology Our methodology for understanding health related housing needs in Southwest Brooklyn included analysis of secondary data and the collection and analysis of primary data. Secondary data from population based surveys, reports, and administrative data were used to describe the current snapshot of housing and demographics in Sunset Park, the main catchment area of NYU Langone Brooklyn (see Appendix B for data sources and indicator descriptions). The majority of data sources define Sunset Park according to the United States Census Bureau Public Use Microdata Area (PUMA), which includes Windsor Terrace and approximates the Sunset Park Community District (BK07). These population based data help to characterize the overarching housing landscape in Sunset Park, and provide context for the themes raised during focus group discussions. Primary data collection consisted of key informant interviews and focus groups. In late June 2017, consultants Bonnie Mohan and Henie Lustgarten first met with the community based organizations (CBO) that are partners in the NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS to introduce the project and to hear their perspectives. Following this introduction, from July to September they held 11 focus groups (lasting from 60 to 90 minutes) with a mix of supervisory and direct care staff. They also conducted seven interviews with key informants from the NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn and from the Family Health Centers. Population based surveillance surveys and reports • US Census Bureau American Community Survey, 2011 2015 • State of NYC’s Housing and Neighborhoods in 2016, NYU Furman Center • NYC Housing and Vacancy Survey, 2014 • NYC Community Health Profiles, 2015 • Brooklyn Community Needs Assessment, 2014 • Children’s HealthWatch, Boston Targeted studies and surveys • NYU Langone Brooklyn ED Study, 2017 • Hospital Homeless Count, The Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, 2017 7 Preliminary findings were presented at a large meeting on October 2, 2017 to a group that included representatives from NYU Langone Health, the Brooklyn Health Home, CAMBA, Enterprise Community Partners, LISC, and the Robin Hood Foundation. Insights from that discussion are included in this summary as well. Secondary Data Analysis Demographic in Sunset Park Sunset Park has historically been a first destination for immigrants. About half of Sunset Park residents were born outside the United States. About three out of four Sunset Park residents speak a language other than English at home, and about one half speak English very well. Sunset Park is a diverse community with Chinese, Mexican, and Puerto Rican people comprising more than one half of the population. Poverty is high in Sunset Park, with more than one out of four residents living in households with incomes below the Federal Poverty Level. Unemployment is lower in Sunset Park than Brooklyn overall, however, more than one out of four working age adults lack health insurance. About three out of four children under age 18 years and one out of three adults 18 to 64 years are covered by Medicaid. Housing in Sunset Park Small residential buildings, generally two to three floors with basements, dominate the housing landscape in Sunset Park. Most housing units are renter occupied. There are no public housing units in the neighborhood, and the use of federally subsidized housing choice vouchers is low in Sunset Park. Properties tend to be owned by individuals or entities that own a single property in Sunset Park. Sunset Park has the second oldest housing stock in New York City, with nearly two out of three housing units built before 1940. More than one out of three renter households are severely rent burdened, meaning that gross rent is 8 more than one half of household income, despite about one out of two rental units being rent controlled or rent stabilized. In 2016, the median asking rent was $2,100 per month, yet the median annual household income amounted to $3,256 per month for renter occupied households. An average household in Sunset Park has 3.25 people, compared with 2.74 in Brooklyn overall. Sunset Park ranks third highest in severely crowded households among New York City neighborhoods, with nearly one out of ten renter households having more than 1.5 people per room. More than one out of four households see roaches on a typical day and one out of five households have seen mice or rats in their building. Due to inadequate heating, about one out of six households has used a supplemental source of heat in the winter such as a kitchen stove, fireplace or portable heater. US Census Bureau, American Community Survey, 2011 2015. New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey, 2014 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Emergency Department Survey From November 2016 July 2017, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn conducted a convenience sample survey of Emergency Department (ED) patients carried out by volunteer research assistants in order to get a preliminary sense of the social needs of these patients. The survey results found that the ED population struggled with a variety of health related social needs, including housing, though frank homelessness was less common than we see in some other NYC hospitals. Still, the survey identified a 9 fair number of people who are living doubled up, are unstably housed in various ways, and who have other markers of high financial need. 2017 Hospital Homeless Count NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn also participated in a Hospital Homeless Count in 2017, organized by The Bronx Health & Housing Consortium. Every January, the NYC Department of Homeless Services (DHS) conducts its annual Homeless Outreach Population Estimate (HOPE) Count. This event, which takes place in the middle of the night during the winter, consists of an outdoor street count throughout the five boroughs and MTA system to identify homeless individuals. Understanding that homeless and unstably housed populations are a significant driver of hospital based health care utilization, for the past three years, The Bronx Health & Housing Consortium has done its own count of homeless people in hospital emergency departments on the night of the annual DHS HOPE Count. On the night of February 6th, 2017, volunteers visited 14 hospitals on 17 sites in the Bronx, Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn and found a total of 131 people who identified as homeless. The number of people found varied by hospital, with a low of two people and a high of 24. At NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, volunteers found four homeless people (three street homeless and one newly homeless) in the emergency department during the hours of the count. Primary Data Collection and Analysis: Report from Consultants Henie Lustgarten and Bonnie Mohan In all focus groups and interviews with health care providers and CBO staff, we asked about the health and housing needs of the people served: how these needs are identified, what services the organization provides to meet those needs, where they make referrals for services they do not provide, and what gaps they have identified in the availability of resources and in their partnerships with other organizations and health systems. Findings from these conversations are summarized below. Please note that although we held 11 focus groups and seven key informant interviews, the findings presented here are not comprehensive and reflect only the views of the people with whom we spoke. Furthermore, because many system changes are currently underway, including the implementation of a new electronic medical record system, interviewee knowledge about resources may not be fully up to date. Finally, although many important issues and challenges were raised during the course of the focus groups and interviews, this report focuses specifically on issues germane to the nexus of health and housing. NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn ED Survey (n=530) Housing • were in own apartment, in someone else’s apartment previous night. • not living in stable housing in past 2 months, concerned about stable housing in next 2 months • owe rent arrears (back rent payments) • have been homeless or doubled up in past 12 months, in lifetime Employment and Income • unemployed or unable to work • had not met essential expenses in last 12 months. • had experienced food insecurity 10 Identifying the Population From our discussions with staff at NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, there was a general recognition that housing is an important issue. Unstably housed patients are identified through staff relationships with patients that have developed over time (especially in the ED), formal and informal assessments, and by patients raising housing issues, for example during the discharge process or during psychotherapy sessions. Across NYU Langone Health Brooklyn, staff currently utilize a variety of methods and informal systems to assess for housing status, with limited ability to share across systems. Assessments usually include where people live, with whom, and housing problems. Details that may affect housing options, such as whether one’s name is on the lease, are not usually collected or noted. The community Ambulatory Behavioral Health Services group routinely asks more detailed housing questions as do some of the Health Home staff. There are various assessment points, but pathways for routine sharing of information may not be clear. For example, the Behavioral Health Service staff may know the patient is living in a very overcrowded setting but it is unclear if that information is reflected in the medical records. As noted, with the implementation of a new electronic health record system, this area is in flux and clearly warrants further investigation since the gathering and sharing of information on patients’ housing is a critically important element in addressing the need and creating effective discharge plans. In speaking with CBO staff, we found that there are no standard assessment tools, even within an agency. Assessment processes vary program to program and often depend on the funder’s requirements. Most assessments do not collect detailed information about the health of their clients and many CBO staff do not have access to data systems to keep these records. They generally capture more information about their clients’ housing situation, primarily where the person was currently living. Typically, the level of detail about health and housing issues depended on what services the CBO provides in those areas and the extent of their referral networks. Among the CBOs, supportive housing providers and those engaged with Health Homes and/or DSRIP tended to have the most comprehensive assessments. Housing and Health Issues We found a strong consensus among health care providers and CBO staff that housing is a key social determinant of health, that people need assistance to obtain and stay in decent housing, and that many organizations need help to understand housing options. Although street homelessness may not be as visible in Sunset Park as in some other poor communities in NYC, those who are street homeless and unstably housed account for a disproportionate amount of health care utilization and staff time. Hospital staff estimated that there are about 40 people per month who require varying levels of housing support. About 12 of these 40 present in the ED and the others are inpatients. We also heard that patients’ lack of safe or appropriate housing can create barriers to safe discharge. Informants identified several factors that contribute to housing instability: 11  Affordability. The average one bedroom apartment in Sunset Park is about $2,100/month in rent. Since the median monthly income for renter occupied households is $3,256 in Sunset Park, this means rents are often unaffordable. About of Sunset Park residents live below the poverty level, which contributes to housing insecurity. According to the Health Home staff, a sub tenancy (i.e., rental of a room in someone else’s apartment), often illegal, is about $700/month. For those who cannot work, the Health Home staff noted that monthly Public Assistance payments of $882 and SSI payments of $700 are inadequate to obtain and maintain housing.  Suitability. In areas with low rise housing such as Sunset Park, landlords sometimes respond by creating additional housing units in basements and similar parts of buildings that are not zoned for separate living quarters. As a result, these units may not meet building code requirements. When City officials find these units, residents are often forced to leave unless the landlord can renovate the unit to meet building codes. This underscores something we’ve heard: poor housing can readily become no housing. From interviews, we learned that residents, particularly those with behavioral health problems or immigrants who are undocumented, may be reluctant to complain because they have fewer options or are fearful of repercussions. We heard of several such examples including people living in basements or hallways. For example, we learned about one man with behavioral health diagnoses who is living in a hallway and gives his SSI check to his landlord. He receives no services and since he is not officially homeless, he does not meet requirements for supportive housing that might be otherwise be available to him. Other examples of unreported problems include pests and mold, which also are directly related to health. Immigrant communities, where households are frequently forced to double up due to financial constraints, often experience overcrowded conditions. Our respondents described how overcrowding can lead to lack of privacy and anxiety, aggressive behavior, and children exposed to unsuitable behaviors that affect their wellbeing. Access to suitable housing is also affected by community residents’ ability to access benefits that may help them find and afford housing. CBOs serving immigrants told us that their clients are often uncomfortable sharing information with governmental agencies, thus preventing them from accessing benefits and income that could improve their housing and health.  Gentrification. Many staff of the CBOs and Health Homes we interviewed talked about the pressures of gentrification on housing market prices. Staff noted that landlords may seek to push current tenants out by neglecting needed repairs, pests, and in some cases keeping heat at the minimum temperature legally required, all of which can negatively impact people’s health. Staff also noted that although landlords are legally obligated to accept vouchers like LINC, a rental assistance program to help families and singles living in shelters to move into community apartments, they often do not comply. In addition, current tenants who require modifications to their units (for example aging tenants who require ramps or supporting hardware) find landlords reluctant to 12 provide them. Overall, there was a strong consensus among all interviewees that the shortage of affordable housing in the area is becoming a crisis for the existing population.  Effects of substance use and mental health on housing instability. CBO and NYULH staff confirmed the strong link between housing insecurity and mental health and/or substance use disorder. Several observed that depression can affect people’s ability to work, which can lead to nonpayment of rent, then eviction. These staff reported that people with substance use disorders have particular difficulty finding and keeping housing.  Respite. Many key informants identified the need for a type of respite service, where people with health problems and no or poor housing can live temporarily while receiving intensive care management, medications management, and other services, so that they can be stabilized and then move safely into to housing or to the shelter system.  Shelter system. Hospital and CBO staff reported that homeless people are sometimes fearful of and reluctant to enter the shelter system with the result that they can end up living in conditions that exacerbate their health problems. The gentleman living in a hallway, discussed above, had originally been in a shelter, but refused to return. We also heard about people who have entered the shelter system and have been placed in locations far from their health care providers and communities, with poorer health care status as a result. Informants reported that available shelter beds and housing units are often found in Staten Island and the Rockaways, far from residents’ communities and health care providers. In neighborhoods like Sunset Park where people have strong community ties, being separated from those communities can be disruptive to their care and wellbeing. From our interviewees, we learned that shelters are under pressure to make housing placements, and are not always able to make the most appropriate placements that meet people’s needs. When this is not successful, people often cycle back to the providers, CBOs and communities where they feel comfortable and supported, but where their housing situation may be worse. As an example, we were told about one man who has HIV/AIDS who has been moved to various shelters, further from his primary clinical providers, thereby making continuity of care all the more challenging. There are currently inadequate communication systems between the shelter system and clinicians, which is very frustrating to the NYU Langone clinical staff and to patients alike. Finally, some health providers believe that shelters are not preparing long term residents for living independently.  Language and cultural barriers. Because Southwest Brooklyn has a largely foreign born population, language and cultural barriers that impact people’s health care and housing were raised.2 We heard 2 It is worth noting that immigration and legal issues were frequently raised as impacting people’s health as well as their housing. Interviewees observed an increase in depression and anxiety among immigrant communities since the 2016 election and very little emotional support for affected families. As a result, the fear an increase in alcohol and substance use. Informants noted the strain and isolation experienced by immigrants who come to this country alone to work and send money back home. Single men in particular are often living in shared spaces with little privacy. Without a comfortable home in which to relax after working all day and no support network, CBO staff reflected that many of these men go out to drink in their free time. 13 several stories of how the healthcare and shelter systems can find it difficult to accommodate immigrants’ language and cultural or religious practices. Lack of adequate translation came up repeatedly, particularly for Arab and Chinese American communities. Improved language access and cultural competence for housing, social service and health care providers was a high priority for many interviewees.  Accessing housing. Many housing applications, like Housing Connect, are online but CBO staff told us that many people do not have computers or Internet access. Additional fees can be prohibitive for people who are very poor. In addition, we were reminded by several CBO staff members that many immigrants, even those with legal status, do not think they are eligible for or are hesitant to apply for certain housing subsidies or income assistance that would help acquire housing.  Housing referrals. The universe of housing is broad and complex. There are dozens of housing programs each with specific eligibility criteria, application processes, and levels of services provided. Most CBOs we met with do not provide housing assistance directly. Staff typically refer to other organizations but have few or no direct housing provider contacts, and they are uncertain about how to obtain housing support for their clients. The expertise required to determine housing eligibility and to complete the referral/application process is not easily found within the health care system or the local CBOs. As previously noted, NYULH staff in various parts of the organization, including the Health Home, EDs, and community clinics, currently are using different assessments, usually informal, to determine whether a patient has a housing issue that may impact his or her health and/or the care plan. Similarly, there are currently no clear protocols within NYULH as to how to address housing needs; referral processes within and outside the organization are not codified or part of staff training. Some staff work with patients over a short period of time, others longer. Since many housing interventions require long periods of time to complete forms with documentation, allow for processing and interviews, etc. it is critical to agree to a pathway of information, interventions and responsibility if housing issues are to be addressed. Overall, we identified a major need to support staff in understanding current housing resources and options available and in learning how to access this support. And there was a strong recognition of the need to work towards improving and expanding those resources. Organizational Issues for CBOs CBO staff with whom we spoke were interested in learning more about their clients’ health and housing challenges and many were keen to have a deeper engagement with the health care delivery system. Often, staff do not know whom to contact at the hospital about their clients’ care and there is no clear protocol to follow. When they are able to make this connection, it is because of the organization’s relationship with a specific health care provider. Several staff members suggested that their organizations could help improve the health and housing stability of their clients, even when they do not 14 provide direct housing services. They noted that the relationships and trust they have built could be used to engage clients and connect them to services, including health care and housing. Although there are no supportive housing providers located in Sunset Park, two supportive housing providers, Center for Urban Community Services (CUCS) and CAMBA, have units in Brooklyn that serve people with complex medical and behavioral health needs. As a result, they know their tenants’ medication history, patterns of behavior and baseline mental status, specialty and primary care providers, and family members. Supportive housing social workers are often the people making the EMS call when a tenant needs to go to the hospital. Supportive housing providers we interviewed expressed their desire to be a resource for medical care providers generally to ensure care coordination and continuity of care based on their own positive experience linking people’s housing and medical support systems. Staff are often able to notice when someone is decompensating and, when working closely with the hospital, could potentially prevent a crisis. They noted that it is important for them to know when their clients have been admitted and to receive discharge summaries so they can support clients with any new medications and required follow up. Receiving discharge plans from hospitals has become more challenging since hospitals have moved from paper to online portals, which creates access barriers. Other housing providers are seeking ways to support the health needs of their tenants. We have learned that Enterprise Community Partners, which works with affordable housing providers, also is engaging landlords to help their tenants with health issues to have improved access to services. Issues of health insurance and payment for health care came up repeatedly in discussion with CBO staff. Some CBO staff seem to believe that clients who are uninsured and/or undocumented can only be referred to public hospitals like Kings County. CBO staff also reported that people sometimes avoid seeking treatment because they are afraid of the cost. One CBO’s staff member mentioned that they often have clients come to their offices when they are sick before going to the hospital because they are concerned about cost. Most CBO staff do not understand hospital billing systems so struggle to advise clients. Finally, most CBO staff indicated that they are not aware of the full scope of resources available to their clients and how to access them. Most have informal systems and contact networks, mainly based on individual staff’s personal knowledge. When they do make a referral, they often do not hear anything back from the other agency about whether the person went to the appointment and what the outcome was. Most rely on the client to report back, which does not always happen. Many CBO staff members report feeling stressed and overburdened as their clients try to understand and navigate in the current political environment. 15 III. ADDRESSING THE NEED Challenges The key challenges that were raised through the Needs Assessment were the lack of cross organizational assessments to identify the population with both health and housing needs, the need to communicate internally and across organizations about making effective referrals, and the inability to share relevant information at critical points such as discharge planning. The technology to share and inform care planning exists, but requires many systems to be effectively used and processes to be established for sharing information. Opportunities One of the major opportunities we identified was a widespread acknowledgement of and consensus on the issues and challenges. From staff at small CBOs to personnel throughout the health care system, there was recognition that health and housing are intertwined and agreement on the challenges that exist. Similarly, all of the people with whom we spoke expressed a desire to work more closely with other groups and to strengthen partnerships. There already exists a strong network of CBOs engaged with their communities and where there are gaps in this network, there is hunger for information about other organizations and resources. There is therefore an opportunity to weave together the different systems so that housing information can be used to inform health diagnoses/treatment and health information to inform housing needs. Current but Disparate Efforts Through the course of our discussions, we learned of other relevant efforts to address health and housing. We describe some of these efforts below so that we all can learn and benefit from the important work already underway. NYU Langone Health is conducting a number of initiatives that could support the work of the Consortium:  The NYU Langone Brooklyn psychiatric ED is conducting multi agency case conferences, which are bringing together various organizations to work together to support homeless people who are often high utilizers.  Healthify, a community resource search tool currently being piloted by DSRIP partners in the NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS, could be used as a central repository for information about community based organizations that could be systematized and operationalized throughout the health system.  The ED includes Community Health Workers (CHWs) in its workflow to target high risk patients (via EPIC alert) at NYU Langone Brooklyn. 16  NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn has launched a Patient Navigation Center (PNC). Within the PNC, CHWs target high risk patients (via EPIC alert) with a screening of social determinants of health (SDH) to connect the patient to services, including a housing specialist when applicable.  A protocol for coding patients who are homeless is being standardized throughout the system, which allows for more accurate reporting and targeting of services This Needs Assessment was supported by NYU Langone Health’s Community Service Plan and has therefore focused initially on the NYU Langone Brooklyn catchment area. But there are important opportunities for synergy with other health care providers and in a broader geographic area. The Brooklyn Health Home has been a leader in developing community partnerships and has been involved in the wider discussions about understanding and serving this part of Brooklyn. Maimonides Medical Center has also been involved with housing organizations in a contiguous area and its PPS has partnered with housing organizations as well, several of which overlap the NYU partnerships. The Brooklyn Health Home has adopted a screening tool for housing issues and they are working to develop effective interventions. Maimonides has also undertaken several research projects that focus on social determinants and are committed to support people with housing as well as health needs. On the housing side, in an effort to improve communication with nearby hospitals, one supportive housing provider we interviewed has assigned a social worker to serve as the agency liaison to hospitals where their tenants frequently receive care. This could also serve as a resource to those hospitals, allowing them to be in contact with the supportive housing provider when a resident comes to the ED, is admitted or discharged. Although there are few supportive housing buildings in Sunset Park, the model of designating dedicated liaisons is useful and may be replicated with other landlord groups, such as those providing affordable housing. Recognizing that homeless clients represent some of the highest utilizers of health care services with some of the poorest health outcomes, the Department of Homeless Services (DHS) is beginning to explore initiatives around improving coordination between the homeless service and health care delivery systems, including pending connectivity between DHS and the Healthix Regional Health Information Exchange (RHIO). Another recent initiative seeks to identify best practices for hospitals to identify homeless patients and increase coordination between hospitals and homeless outreach teams citywide. Next Steps: The Southwest Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium The formation of The Southwest Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium reflects a shared understanding of the intersection of health and housing and the power of cross sector collaboration to address these issues. The Consortium will build on and enhance existing efforts and develop systems and programs to address the needs identified. The Consortium will also continue to inventory other, related efforts so that we kind find opportunities for synergy. With the support of the NYULH Community Service Plan, we 17 have focused our initial assessment on the NYU Langone Brooklyn catchment area. Nevertheless, the partnerships and opportunities extend to other parts of Brooklyn as well. The Consortium will: Provide systematic ways to share information, and develop pathways within and across the health and housing sectors, including:  Building a network across sectors to better understand the health/housing issues of patients/clients and to share information and resources, leveraging the existing PPS partnerships and structures. This will be done through: o Open houses, field trips and marketplace events so that health care, housing and CBO staff can learn about existing resources, understand how to navigate the health care and housing systems, and develop personal relationships and contacts to facilitate referrals and sharing of information; o Case conferences to chart the path of selected patients/clients through clinical and community services to understand gaps and barriers and to optimize pathways; o A working conference on Health and Housing to explore intake processes, coding, and best practices for screening; and o Developing and implementing processes for sharing client/patient information and improving communication among different stakeholders, taking into account the need for privacy and confidentiality.  Building capacity and infrastructure of health systems and CBOs to identify and address health/housing issues through: o DSRIP workforce development programs; o Accessing New York State capacity building resources to support CBOs in strengthening their data infrastructure and enhancing their ability to partner with health and housing systems; and o Enhancing client/patient access to legal services, particularly around housing issues.  Exploring ways to build capacity for medical respite services for people who are homeless or unstably housed and have time limited medical needs, and stabilization for people with substance use disorders. Track and coordinate with other health and housing efforts and expand the partnership to include:  Managed care organizations;  City and State officials;  Policymakers; and  Leaders of related efforts. 18 Create and prioritize longer term strategies, which might include:  Establishing a respite program for homeless or unstably housed patients;  Establishing a stabilization center for people with substance use disorders;  Developing a policy agenda and working with community leaders, policymakers, and elected officials to educate them about the deleterious health effects of the housing crisis and health related housing needs in the community; and  Developing infrastructure to measure need and impact including health outcomes, financial impact, and patient and staff satisfaction. 19 APPENDIX A: NYU Langone Brooklyn PPS Community Advisory Group  Arab American Family Support Center  Arab American Association of New York  ArchCare  Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health  Brooklyn Chinese American Association  CAMBA  Caribbean Women’s Health Association  Chinese American Planning Council  Diaspora Community Services  Fifth Avenue Committee  Mixteca Organization Inc.  RiseBoro Community Partnership (formerly Ridgewood Bushwick Senior Citizens Council)  SCO, Center for Family Life  Turning Point Brooklyn APPENDIX B: Data Sources and Indicator Descriptions Topic Indicator Description Indicator Definition Primary Data Source Obtained From Housing Renter occupied