Prevention Agenda Dashboard also identified the rate of hospitalizations due to falls per 10,000 seniors aged, 65+ as 222.5 According to SPARCS data as of January, 2016, there is no significant change, therefore, intervention is still needed. https://apps.health.ny.gov/doh2/applinks/ebi/SASStoredProcess/guest?_program=/EBI/PHIG/apps/dashboard/pa_dashboard  Women and children’s health The category of Healthy Women, Infants and Children was highlighted during the summit and in the surveys. Children’s health issues were inclusive of well child visits; child neglect; safe childcare options; developmental delays and dental problems for children. “Maternity/Mother” covers issues related to breastfeeding; reproductive care; young mother’s and utilization of preventive health services for mothers. PRIORITIZATION The following criteria were utilized in determining the prioritization of needs:  SPARCS data (201 12 2014), NYSODH Vital Statistics, NYS Cancer Registry and the NYSDOH Surveillance System  Winthrop’s Admissions Data, in particular PQI (Prevention Quality Indicators)  The severity of the public health need  Perceptions of the community identified in community survey & CBO Summit  Resources both hospital and community based  Health disparities within our core market area  New York State Prevention Agenda priorities  Priorities of Healthy People 2020 The prioritization process included discussion with community partners, including both the Long Island Health Collaborative and Winthrop’s Community Cultural Advisory Committee, internal discussions with Winthrop Senior Administration and review with the Board of Directors, an examination of resources, and a determination of the feasibility of possible interventions. Winthrop ranked priorities based on the burden, scope and urgency of the health need across the service area, health disparities in select communities, resources, and the importance the community placed on addressing the needs. RANKING 6 https://www.cdc.gov/HomeandRecreationalSafety/Falls/adultfalls.html 22 1. Prevention and management of chronic disease 2. Reduce obesity in children and adults 3. Cancer Prevention & Screening 4. Healthy & Safe Environment (Fall Prevention) 5. Mental Health and Substance Abuse 6. Women & Children’s Health V. POTENTIALLY AVAILABLE RESOURCES In addition to the resources that Winthrop is planning to commit, such as staffing, space and materials, Nassau County has a number of available resources to help meet community needs. Our County boasts 12 hospitals (including Winthrop), an adequate number of primary care physicians, five federally qualified health care centers in areas of high need, and numerous community based organizations. Community members can access resources at www.hitesite.org/, www.211.org/ and of course, at https://www.winthrop.org/community programs During this assessment, the collaborative effort also identified a number of potentially available resources that are posted on our website and are identified as Appendix 4. VI. EVALUATION OF IMPACT Our CHNA of 2013 identified the same priorities as our current assessment, specifically prevention and management of chronic disease, obesity, fall prevention, and women and children’s health. The following is a brief description of Winthrop’s actions that were taken to address the most significant health needs identified in our prior CHNA. As mentioned earlier in the introduction, these health concerns are also being addressed by hospital community partners in the Long Island Health Collaborative. By using the collective impact model to enhance the quality of work being pursued in Population Health efforts, it is hoped that public awareness and education will help motivate individuals to make the changes necessary to develop a healthy lifestyle and improve outcomes. Leading a healthy lifestyle (e.g., avoiding tobacco use, being physically active and eating well) reduces the risk for these diseases. The following is a brief description of programs that were implemented and an evaluation of their impact. PREVENTING CHRONIC DISEASE NATIONAL DIABETES PREVENTION PROGRAM 23 Winthrop offered the National Diabetes Prevention Program at no cost at the Diabetes Education Center. It is important to note that approximately of participants were from communities with health disparities. Participation involves a commitment for one year and includes classes held weekly during the first six months. It then transitions to every other week and then monthly during the second six months of the year. During 2014, Winthrop offered five new diabetes prevention classes during the day and evening that were staggered throughout the year. A total of 106 individuals participated. During 2015, seven new diabetes prevention classes were started. Classes offered in the day and evening were staggered throughout the year with two classes starting in the Winter, two classes in the Summer and three classes in the Fall. Participation totaled 254 individuals. Six new diabetes prevention classes were started in 2016 a total of 242 individuals participated in the Diabetes Prevention Program Percentage of sessions with weight documented during months 1 to 12 Percentage of sessions with physical activity documented during months 1 to 12. Evaluation of Impact In 2016, we transitioned to completed QTAC participant satisfaction surveys. Results are as follows: Months 1 to 6 25 surveys Months 7 to 12 21 surveys I know more about lifestyle changes like diet and exercise that are recommended for my health condition. Months 1 6 Participant Satisfaction Survey strongly agree agree Months 7 12 Participant Satisfaction Survey strongly agree agree I have been able to maintain the lifestyle changes for my health that I have made. Months 1 6 Participant Satisfaction Survey strongly agree agree Months 7 12 Participant Satisfaction Survey strongly agree agree disagree I now have a better understanding of how to manage my health and/or physical activity. Months 1 6 Participant Satisfaction Survey strongly agree agree Months 7 12 Participant strongly agree agree 24 Satisfaction Survey In addition to the above statistics, during 2015 one group found the support so helpful that they decided to continue their group on their own after the class ended. They named themselves the “DiaBEATers,” and get together regularly to exchange healthy recipes, enjoy a healthy meal out or even take a tour of a local grocery store to learn about nutritious food options. They feel it helps them stay “focused and motivated.” ASTHMA To reduce pediatric hospital admissions from asthma, Winthrop partnered with the Long Island Asthma Coalition in 2013 to implement the BREATHE program: Bringing Resources for Effective Asthma Treatment through Health Education. The initial population of focus was children in the Hempstead Pediatric Clinic a community with health disparities that showed the area of highest need. Children having emergency department visits or being admitted to the hospital were followed by Home care nurses, who assessed homes for asthma triggers and taught families about asthma management. This is now expanded to all asthma ER visits or hospital admissions for children in Nassau County. Referrals to the program come from doctor’s offices, the ER or in patient hospital admissions. Evaluation of Impact Initial aim was to reduce asthma emergency department visits and hospitalizations by in one year. BREATHE Winthrop Outcomes Pediatric Patients Admitted May 2013 to April 2014, a reduction of in hospitalizations which surpassed expectations. The program is continuing. OBESITY NUTRITION AND HEALTHY WEIGHT The identification and counseling of children who are obese (BMI =/>) was implemented in 2013 in the WUH Hempstead Pediatric Clinic, an area suffering health disparities. The Clinic utilizes the 5 2 1 0 program as a way of teaching parents and children a healthy lifestyle. The plan incorporates five servings of fruits and vegetables, no more than two hours of screen time (including TV and IPADS), one hour of exercise and zero sugary drinks. The objective is to teach children the basics of a healthy lifestyle; the intended goal is to achieve a long term positive impact on their health. Through this program, primary care providers are encouraged to consistently document Body Mass Index (BMI), provide lifestyle counseling, and develop individual care plans and follow up measures. Parents whose children are obese (BMI = />) are asked to bring their child back within three months for a follow up visit. Children nine years old and over who are still obese (BMI = />) 25 are sent for lab work which includes cholesterol and liver function testing. Children with abnormal results are then referred to an endocrinologist or a gastroenterologist. Original tracking measures identified in the 2013 plan were to “increase the number of care plans and obesity folders distributed to .” An evaluation of tracking methods in 2014 determined a more effective measure: “Documentation of counseling rate and follow up rate.” During 2015, the tracking measure was revised to “documentation of counseling rate” as we lacked resources to continue the follow up mailings. During 2014, the counseling documentation rate was ; up from 2013. Follow up rate with parents = ; increase from 2013. During 2015, counseling documentation rate was ; drop due to staffing. During 2016, counseling documentation rate was . Evaluation of Impact Obesity rates continue to rise. Winthrop will continue the program, but will include a no juice campaign, documenting the counseling rate for parents of toddlers and “no juice. Since a number of four year olds are obese, It is hoped that early intervention via counseling at six months of age will help reduce the rate of obesity in children. PREVENT CHILDHOOD OBESITY THROUGH EARLY CHILD CARE AND SCHOOLS During 2014, Winthrop collaborated with the Head Start communities located in Hempstead and Westbury to bring the 5 2 1 0 program to their families. The plan included giving each child a packet of information about the program to share with their parents, documenting BMI’s and providing nutritional counseling for families of children identified as having an unhealthy weight. The healthy lifestyle program was introduced at Head Start parent meetings. During 2015, agreements were in place with Head Start and Winthrop, detailing the program and objectives. Plans were revised to invite all parents to participate in a workshop that would offer nutritional counseling and support to parents of children who are identified as having BMIs that are considered “high” or “very high.” The program was implemented in 2016. Each child received a packet of information about the program, including sheets where they track their food and activity level by coloring in the appropriate boxes. To date, 238 children were measured in Hempstead and 16. were in the high range; 18. in the very high range. In Westbury, 212 children were measured; 15. of children were in the high range and 19. were in the very high range. 26 Evaluation of Impact This is a new intervention. Administrators at both Hempstead and Westbury locations have praised the partnership and would like us to expand to other Head Start locations. More parental “buy in” is needed. Although we offered nutritional counseling in the form of support groups, parents did not respond. Going forward, we hope to attend parent meetings in the spring and fall to explain the program more fully and encourage participation. PROMOTE EXCLUSIVE BREASTFEEDING Since breastfed infants are less likely to develop medical problems such as childhood obesity, respiratory and gastrointestinal infections and are at lower risk for childhood cancers, asthma and Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), a strategy identified in 2013 was to achieve Baby Friendly Designation and improve percentage of newborns who only receive breast milk when discharged from the Hospital. In 2014, Winthrop was awarded Baby Friendly Designation by Baby Friendly, USA; of babies were only receiving breast milk when discharged from Winthrop, an increase of from 2013. During 2015, of babies were only receiving breast milk when discharged; during 2016, of babies were only receiving breast milk when discharged from Winthrop. Evaluation of Impact In addition to the above, Winthrop offers a breastfeeding support group, led by a lactation consultant. Over 110 different women attended the support group during 2016. NUTRITION AND HEALTHY WEIGHT (OBESITY) CHRONIC CONDITIONS PROMOTE CHRONIC DISEASE SELF MANAGEMENT AND PREVENT OBESITY In the 2013 CHNA, Winthrop created and implemented “Active Living,” A four part free of charge series that addresses chronic condition management and the benefits of a healthy lifestyle through nutrition, exercise and stress management. During 2014, Winthrop implemented three pilot sessions at the Hospital’s Welcome Center; 63 people attended three sessions. In 2015, the program expanded into the community. Two four week sessions were held at the Hospital’s Welcome Center and one was held at the Yes We Can Center in Westbury, a community with health disparities. One more was held at the 27 Westbury Library. A total of 64 people attended four sessions. Due to limited resources of staff and space, we were only able to offer one program during 2016. Evaluation of Impact Participants are given a Wellness Survey, both pre and post program. Based on results, the Active Living program is influencing the health behaviors of its participants in a positive way. To start, more than of the participants completed at least 3 of the 4 parts. After attending the program, no matter how many parts of the series were completed, the participants scored more positive on the Nutrition section and nearly on the Exercise section. We have recently hired a new community nurse educator and look forward to holding more sessions in the future. HEALTHY & SAFE ENVIRONMENT FALL PREVENTION Winthrop’s robust Fall Prevention Program for seniors includes a beginner four part fall prevention workshop, followed by exercise classes to improve balance, flexibility and strength. A total of 69 beginner workshop, four week series were held during 2014, 2015 and 2016. Forty seven of these were held at the Hospital’s Welcome Center, and 22 were held at out in the community. A total of 810 individuals participated in these classes. Evaluation of Impact Participants fill in post satisfaction forms. They acknowledge that the classes have given them more confidence, make them more aware of their posture, have made modifications at home, see the eye doctor once a year, and review their medications. Feedback from the workshops inspired Winthrop to develop the exercise classes as a reinforcement to improve balance, flexibility and strength. Since their inception, approximately 140 follow up exercise classes have been held. People noticed that the program helped create an awareness of what to do to prevent a fall. TAI CHI FOR ARTHRITIS evidenced based for arthritis and fall prevention, it is also proven to be an excellent strategy to relieve stress and improve mental health. Winthrop implemented this eight week twice a week program in January of 2016. Since then, six programs have been offered four at the Welcome Center and two at the Yes We Can Community Center in Westbury, a community with health disparities. Approximately 200 people have participated. Evaluation of Impact The response to the program has been tremendous, with community members calling and requesting classes. Anonymous post evaluation forms are collected as part of the program and submitted to QTAC NY (Quality & Technical Assistance Center of NY) for evaluation. Here is a summary of the report:  of participants experienced a reduced fear of falling.  would recommend the program to a friend or relative  continued to do exercises they learned in the program 28  reported that they are “very sure” they can become steadier on their feet. Another feel sure they Follow Up Workshop Participant Evaluation In addition to the above, Winthrop distributes a post satisfaction form to individuals who return for the “refresher” portion of the workshop. This form collects information regarding the impact the program has on participants over a longer period. The following is a short summary:  indicated that they felt more self confident performing daily activities  72. indicated that they were stronger and more flexible  68. indicated that their balance improved  67. indicated that their posture has improved. WOMEN’S HEALTH Winthrop’s Women’s Wellness Center in Hempstead addresses the health disparities of this select community. They offer a wide variety of obstetrical and gynecological services, as well as on site risk assessment, smoking cessation support, genetic counseling, nutritional counseling along with gestational diabetes education. Additional services include: psychosocial counseling, depression screening at each visit, postpartum depression screening and referrals, bereavement counseling, education on domestic relationship abuse/sexual abuse, assessment of living conditions and cultural diversity. To meet the needs of the community, the site features a Medicaid Enrollment Specialist for uninsured patients; Charity Care Application and self pay rates are available as well. They participate with NYS Medicaid and most Medicaid Managed Care HMO plans. Evaluation of Impact During 2016, the Center averaged 2200 visits per month with a total of 26,000 encounters. This is a increase from 2015. Financial services department met with over 375 patients at the Center during this time period; this does not include those already enrolled in Medicaid services. There are more patients insured now; no appointment is needed for Medicaid enrollment. CHILDREN’S HEALTH SERVICES ASTHMA The Winthrop Hempstead Pediatric Clinic, a Patient Centered Medical Home since 2014, draws patients primarily from the Hempstead community but also serves children, from newborn to age 21, from the surrounding neighborhoods experiencing health disparities (Elmont, Freeport, Uniondale and Roosevelt). In 2015, a total of 17,481 patients were treated at the facility, an increase of from 2014. 29 The practice focuses on four important conditions: obesity, asthma, 18 month well check and the first month of life. Evaluation of Impact Statistics and quality monthly meetings review the impact of asthma education on the patient population. The Hempstead High School Health Center (HHHC) is a school based Health Center in a community with health disparities. During the end of the school year, June 2016, there were over 3,970 visits to the Center by approximately 1,304 students. Comprehensive preventive, episodic and confidential healthcare was provided. Winthrop includes specific programs needed by the school’s population; asthma is a priority: o An Asthma Management Program monitors and tracks students with asthma. It includes quarterly asthma workshops. This effort is particularly significant in Hempstead, where asthma rates are nearly double those of adjacent neighborhoods. Both staff nurses in the HHHC are certified asthma educators. Collaboration with primary care physicians in the community facilitates treatment that meets current medical standards, trains high school nurses and staff about asthma, offers access to medications and assists with obtaining health insurance for uninsured students. There is a noticeable difference among students with asthma, in that fewer students are presenting at the clinic with difficulties. VII. CONCLUSION Our assessment revealed that Nassau County continues to experience difficulties with obesity and chronic disease management, and that there is an increased need for mental health services. Communities with health disparities still exist. Because of this, Winthrop will continue to work with community partners to improve outcomes by stressing the importance of a healthy lifestyle, seeking appropriate clinical services and treatment, and improving access to care.