Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 433 2024 8. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) Approved Manufacturers: a. Rittling b. Slantfin c. Sterling Radiator d. Vulcan Radiator 9. Boilers Approved Manufacturers: a. Condensing Modular 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Fulton 4) Cleaver Brooks b. Fire Packaged WatertuneWater Tube Package 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Burnham c. Water Tube Package for Co generation 4) Babcock and Wilcox c.d. Firetube Boilers up to 150,000lbs/hr 1) Cleaver Brooks d.e. Heat Recovery Steam Generators / Waste Heat Boilers 1) Rentech 10. City Water Backup Panels Provide city water backup panels for MRI, CT, PETCT, LINAC, and Cyclotron. City water backup panels shall have a drain directly upstream of the panel to be able to drain and flush the city water line without manipulating the valving within the backup panel. Chillers and City Water Backup panels shall be integrated into the BMS and the communication protocol shall be BACnet IP. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 434 2024 10.11. Clean Steam Generators Clean steam generators shall be steam to steam type. Screen control panels with PLC shall be provided. Shell shall be pitched to completely drain the condensate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Diversified Heat Transfer DHT. b. Patterson Kelley, Company. c. Acme Engineering Products, Inc. d. Precision Boilers, Inc. e. Armstrong f. Dri Steam g. Cem line 11.12. Chilled Beams (active) Chilled beams shall have pressure independent control. Beams shall be provided with a pressure tap that can be used to measure the pressure differential between the primary air plenum and the room. The units shall be equipped with hinged perforated return grilles, an air bleed and drain valves. The connection of beams to the chilled water circuit shall be a maximum 18 inch long PTFE lined braided stainless steel hose having a rated operating pressure not less than 500 psig. It is standard for all chilled beams to be supported by the wire hanging kit method. Provide a minimum of 3 feet of straight or gradual radius between the primary air duct and the primary connection of the unit. Also avoid sharp bends on the primary air duct connection. Do not install the primary air volume damper directly to the primary air inlet connection. Flexible duct connections to the primary air inlet is not allowed. Chilled beams shall be tagged. Tagging shall be included on the BMS/physical unit, unit tagging shall reference the associated VAV box. i.e. VAV SB 1 30 serves 3 chilled beams on the first floor of Science Building therefore ACB SB 1 30 1, ACB SB 1 30 2, ACB SB 1 30 3 Approved Manufacturers: a. Dadanco b. Carrier c. Titus d. Semco e. York f. Price NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 435 2024 12.13. Chillers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Chiller redundancy to be reviewed by Facilities Operations. All new chillers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Chillers located outdoors shall have capabilities of operating low ambient temperature conditions. Factory witness tests shall consist of all tests required under AHRI Standard 550. Chillers shall have a four point tests , , and design load. FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. Chiller FWT shall also include safeties and shutdown testing. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Epoxy coating shall be installed on the internal side of centrifugal chiller water boxes. Approved Manufacturers: a. Centrifugal 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane 4) Carrier b. Absorption 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Carrier 3) Trane c. Modular Air Cooled 1) ArcticChillTrane (Arctic) 2) Carrier 3) Multistack 4) York/Johnson Controls 5) Trane d. Modular Water Cooled 1) ArcticChillTrane (Arctic) 2) Multistack 3) York/Johnson Controls NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 436 2024 e. Packaged Air Cooled 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane f. Magnetic Levitation 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Daikin 3) Trane g. Medical Chillers Medical chillers shall be supplied with city water backup panels. See city water backup panel section for additional details. Chillers and City Water Backup panels shall be integrated into the BMS and the communication protocol shall be BACnet IP. Each chiller shall be equipped with a Lead/Lag pump configuration for redundancy. A flowmeter shall be provided for monitoring chilled water flow. Drain valves shall be installed upstream of the supply and return isolation valves for flushing and cleaning of mechanical and domestic water pipe. Condenser coils shall be corrosion resistant. The chiller shall be bought by the construction team and be installed by the Mechanical Contractor, medical equipment vendors shall not purchase and install this equipment. 1) Haskris 2) Dimplex 3) Motivair 13.14. Condensate Pumps Steam condensate pumps shall have pump status monitored at BMS as well as high level alarm annunciated at BMS. This typically required additional relays to be designed. Condensate pumps shall be equipment with check valves on discharge piping. Approved Manufacturers: a. Cold Condensate 1) Federal 2) Hartell 3) Little Giant b. Hot Condensate (Low Pressure Steam Return) 1) Armstrong International 2) Bell & Gossett 3) Federal Pump 4) Weinman NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 437 2024 14.15. Cooling/Heating Coils Coil pressure rating shall be designed to 400 psi at an ANSI pressure class of 300 lbs. for Manhattan campus primary chilled water system. For air handlers, Aall coils shall be copper tube and copper fin. Fins shall not be thinner than 0.0095” and tubes shall have a minimum 0.035” wall thickness. Dielectric fittings nipples shall be installed between all dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed). See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. If there is a shortage of copper, aAluminum fins are allowable only on non condensing coils (such as preheat coils)however this needs to be discussed with NYULH Facilities before proceeding with design. Construction of aluminum fin coils shall have copper tube with a minimum wall thickness of 0.035” and aluminum fin with a minimum 0.0095” thickness. A corrosion prevention coating (Electrofin or similar) shall be applied to any coil that is in a outdoor air unit and all aluminum fin coils that is subject to outside air. All coils shall be drainable (drain downs downstream of isolation valve ¾” hose bib) and have means of removal for service or replacement. Coils shall be pitched to a low point for draining purposes. If coils have different levels, all levels shall have separate drain pans. Coils shall have capability to be removed without removing any piping trim. All coils shall have clear access for removal. Multi coils shall be staggered for ability to be removed on the same side of unit. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Vents shall be provided at the top of the coil with drains at the bottom, vent and drain shall exist between the coil’s isolation valves. Cooling Coils must have a stainless steel condensate pan pitched in three directions toward drain. In AHU cooling section, grating shall be provided over the pan to prevent slip hazards. Drain pan nipples shall be stainless steel with dielectric fittings connecting to a drain plug. If return air is coming from the top, the coils shall be designed to have a top and bottom section. If return air is coming from the side, the coils shall be designed to have a left and right section. Separate Freezestats shall be provided on EACH section of coil within a unit that is subject to outside air. Follow freezestat requirements in the BMS guidelines section. If a unit has multiple coils, each coil section shall be provided with its own control valve. Freeze type plug valves are not allowed. AHU Ccoils to be provided with a full size manual bypass ball or gate valve around control valve. Traps for cooling and steam coils shall have proper heights for the removal of condensate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 438 2024 Coils not specifically listed in approved manufacturers below are acceptable only if the Air Handling manufacturer builds and tests the coils in their factory. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Hot water/Chilled water coils shall not be bottom fed. These coils shall be top or side fed. Refer to Variable Air Volume section for reheat coil information. Design engineer to consider utilizing dual purpose CHW/HW coils to combine coils in AHUs. Engineer shall perform an analysis on applicability of such a coil and present to the corresponding campus facility team for review. Approved Manufacturers: a. Water/Steam 1) Aerofin 2) Heat Craft 3) Temtrol 4) RAE 15.16. Cooling Towers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. All towers shall have accessible fan motors for removal. Catwalks shall be provided for fan motors that are installed on the outside of the unit. Provide means of removal of fan motor. Railings shall always be provided on top of the unit. Ladders shall be provided for access to the top of the unit. Freeze protection (steam or electric) shall be provided on towers that will not be drained down during the winter season freeze protection pump shall be provided on a case by case basis as secondary protection. Major cooling towers shall be induced draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. If towers have multiple cells, each cell shall have means of walking between each cell. Catwalks shall be installed inside all cells for maintenance. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. Minor cooling towers shall be force draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. ¾” hose bib shall be installed for cleaning purposes. All cooling towers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 439 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Marley b. Baltimore Aircoil Company c. Evapco 16.17. Controllers (Water Level) Controllers shall be floats or digital type. Design shall be discussed with Facilities Operations. Ensure that the level controllers are accounted for and integrated into the BMS. Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. McDonnell Miller b. B&W c. Magnatrol International, Inc. 17.18. Dampers (ALD's) Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Damper adjustment hardware and actuators shall extend past ductwork insulation. Provide Access Doors for damper blades and actuator (if access is an issue). Damper actuators are not permitted to be mounted in the airstream, shall be mounted on the exterior of the ductwork unless inside of a large Air Handling Unit. If actuator has to be installed inside ductwork due to size requirements, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Double actuators should not be used unless reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Double actuators are not allowed. Actuators shall be sized to provide proper torque via one actuator. Damper actuators are to be mounted on damper axels directly. Linkages are to be avoided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco 18.19. Dampers (Dynamic Fire/Smoke) All fire smoke dampers to be full throat and shall not obstruct the air stream or reduce the area of the duct in any manner. Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 440 2024 Fire Smoke Dampers shall be provided with limit damper blade end switches not actuator end switches. Fire smoke dampers shall be installed with a service switch per code requirements. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. All access doors for FSDs shall include a label on the door indicating what the access is for. Per NYS Mechanical Code requirements, all FSD/SD/FD access doors shall be labeled “Fire/Smoke Damper Access Door”. Access door shall also be tagged per the NYULH naming convention. Damper actuators are not permitted to be mounted in the airstream, shall be mounted on the exterior of the ductwork. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco e. Pottorff f. Honeywell 19.20. Expansion Compensation Expansion compensators shall be designed and shown on drawings with proper guiding and anchors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Type Expansion Joints 1) Advanced Thermal Systems 2) Hyspan Barco b. Braided Type Expansion Loops 1) Metraflex c. Corrugated Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Keflex 3) Metraflex d. Slip Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Metraflex NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 441 2024 20.21. Expansion Tanks Expansion tanks shall have waterside and airside gauges on bladder type tanks. Drain points shall be provided on waterside section. All expansion tanks shall have replaceable bladders. Approved Manufacturers: a. Adamson b. Amtrol c. Bell & Gossett d. John Woods e. RECO f. TACO f.g. Armstrong 21.22. Fans If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Spring type vibration isolators shall always be provided. Neoprene type isolators can be provided for fans less than 100lbs. If neoprene is used, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Motors which are located on the outside of the fan housing shall have an internal access point to provide access to internal sheave. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Patient isolation rooms shall have a dedicated exhaust system, which shall not be picked up by the air handling unit. Fumehood chemical exhaust shall be stainless steel welded ductwork. All fume hood risers shall be pitched back to the chemical fume hood. Fume hoods shall be tested to ANSI/ASHRAE 110 standards. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Fan inlet boxes shall follow SMACNA HVAC Systems Design Handbook and shall not be field fabricated without verification the SMACNA standards were followed. Belt driven fan shall not be provided with variable pulleys if equipped with a VFD. Only fixed pully shall be allowed on such systems. Fumehood exhaust fan PLC’s shall be used for monitoring only. Control for fan speed, static pressure, bypass damper, etc. shall be done through the BMS. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 442 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Howden Buffalo b. Strobic Air c. Greenheck d. Cook e. PennBarry f. Twin City g. Aerovent 22.23. Fan Powered Boxes Fan Powered Boxes shall have pressure independent control. Units shall be designed with a local disconnect switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus 23.24. Fan Coil Units Provide with 2 way controls and condensate pump (or gravity drain). Separate stainless steel drain pan shall be installed underneath unit. Pumps, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. York/Johnson Controls b. Liebert c. Data Aire d. International 24.25. Firestopping Products Firestopping products shall not be used unless required for fire or smoke barriers. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hilti NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 443 2024 25.26. Flow Measuring Devices Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new feed shall be similarly metered. Hot wire type air flow measurement devices are not acceptable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Air Systems 1) Air Monitor Corporation 2) Tek Air Systems, Inc. 3) Paragon Controls 4)3) Ebtron b. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim c. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Electromagnetic Flow Meter) 1) Krohne 2) Yokogawa 3) Emerson 4) Siemens d. Steam Systems (Insertion Turbine or Vortex or Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim 2) Spirax Sarco ILVA 3) Rosemount 4) Vortek Instruments 26.27. Fuel Oil Pumping Systems Pumping system shall be installed in a space that will provide access for periodic maintenance including removal of motors, impellers, and accessories. In flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations) provide water tight enclosure that will allow the pumps to operate during a flood. Controls and all power conduits to be within water tight installations until outside of flood zone. Fuel oil containment piping which is horizontal shall be pitched back to leak containment drum. Vertical fuel oil risers shall also drain into leak containment drum. Horizontal containment shall be a pipe in pipe no other means of containment is allowed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 444 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. IMO c. Deval d. Viking 27.28. Fuel Oil Specialties Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Preferred Utilities Mfg. Corp. 28.29. Fuel Oil Tanks Fuel oil tank shall be bolted to the structure to prevent floating in case of a flood. All preventable flood requirements shall be analyzed if fuel oil tank is to be installed in a flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations). Approved Manufacturers: a. Fiberglass 1) Xerxes Corp. 2) Cardinal Fiberglass Industries 3) Containment Solutions b. Steel 1) ISP 2) Highland Tank & Mfg. Co. 3) Adamson Global Technology Corporation 4) Cardinal Tank Corporation 29.30. Fuel Oil Tank Gauging and Leak Detection Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Veeder Root 30.31. Freezestats See controls subsection for Low Temperature Switches. 31.32. Hangers, Anchors and Guides All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. 32.33. Heat Exchangers For shell and tube heat exchangers, relief valves shall be located on the hot and cold side of heat exchanger and sized to the working pressure of the system. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 445 2024 Plate and Frame heat exchangers shall be located on a housekeeping pad. No equipment shall be installed on the plate side of a heat exchanger proper access for removal of plates shall always be maintained. Heat exchangers shall be provided with strapped or clipped removable shrouds. Heat exchangers shall be AHRI certified. All plate and frame heat exchangers shall be installed with removable sheetmetal insulated covers with separated walls and roofs. Cover walls and roofs shall be secured with hinged latches. Approved Manufacturers: a. Plate and Frame 1) Alfha Laval 2) Plate ConceptsSondex (Danfoss) 3) Bell and Gossett b. Shell and Tube 1) Bell & Gossett 33.34. Heat Trace Refer to electrical guidelines for details. 34.35. Humidifiers Humidifiers shall be supplied with Humidistat and also an airflow switch for preventing humidifier operation without airflow. Humidstat shall be designed to be controlled via a cascaded loop. For proper control, the humidistat shall be installed as close to the duct riser/space as possible for better dispersion. Humidifiers shall be resistive type not electrode type. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Armstrong 2) Dri Steam 3) Nortec 3)4) Condair b. Water Spray (cannot be used in Article 28 spaces) 1) Armstrong 2) Herrmidifier 3) Cold Fog 3)4) Condair 35.36. Insulation (Duct and Pipe) All supply ductwork shall be insulated on the outside. No acoustic insulation is allowed inside the ductwork unless encapsulated with a mylar, tedlar, or approved NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 446 2024 equivalent type membrane. Insulation shall not cover any damper adjustment hardware. All acoustical lining on the inside of any ducts to be reviewed with Facilities Operations. Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Ductwork located outside shall have proper weatherproofing for use outdoors. Outdoor ductwork must have internal rigid supports to create a pitched top and prevent water accumulation on top of the duct. Steam station and steam piping shall have insulation designed such that no point of insulation is greater than 10 degrees above ambient temperature. Strainers and automatic control valves that are installed on piping which is insulated shall have removable insulation covers that are secured with straps or ties. Insulation contractor shall not encase strainer and automatic control valves in field fabricated insulation. The following ductwork shall be insulated: • Supply Air. • Outdoor air. • Return located in unconditioned space. • Type I, commercial, kitchen hood exhaust. • Oven and warewash exhaust. • Exhaust between isolation damper and penetration of building exterior. • Supply and return located outdoors. Generator exhausts located indoors shall be insulated with Calcium Silicate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armacell b. Armstrong c. Knauf d. Johns Manville e. Owens Corning Fiberglas (O C F) f. P.P.G. (Pittsburgh Plate Glass) 36. Insulation Adhesives The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 447 2024 • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Benjamin Foster Company b. Elgen c. Venture Tape Corp 37. Insulation Pipe Shields Approved Manufacturers: a. Buckaroos, Inc. b. Pipe Shields Inc. c. Taylor Pipe Supports 38.37. Meters and Gauges Controls, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. No gauge cocks allowed. Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Temperature Scale Ranges: • Chilled Water Piping: 0 to 100 deg F • Condenser Water Piping: 0 to 150 deg F • Heating, Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F • Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F • Steam Piping: 212 to 500 deg F Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Sisco 3) Watts Regulator NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 448 2024 b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler e. Compound Gauge 1) Winters 2) Weiss 39.38. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a fan array system and over hertzing is being implemented, L10 life shall be greater than 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a VFD system, the motor shall be inverter duty rated. Motors enclosures shall be TEFC. Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 449 2024 b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg c. Electronically Commutated Motor 1) Ziehl Abegg 40.39. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 41.40. Motor Control Centers See Electrical Design Guidelines 42.41. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Provide two VFDs one lead and one lag unless part of a fan array system see Air Handling Unit subsection for fan array VFDs. VFDs shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. All conduits in a controlled enclosure or electrical enclosure shall have sealed conduits. VFDs shall not be installed under any piping trim or joints. If VFD is installed under piping due to physical install constraints, NEMA 4 or 6 shall be used. All locations of VFDs that are below piping shall be approved by Facilities Operations. Harmonic Filtering is required on all variable speed drives. Design engineer to discuss with Facilities Management prior to design if active or passive harmonic filtering to be required. Field Testing on all VFDs powering 25hp motors and larger shall be provided and confirmed that Total Harmonic Distortion does not exceed . At the point of common connection, current Total Harmonic Distortion shall not exceed . Startup and setup shall be done by the current NYU Langone VFD vendor. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. Duct seal putty shall be used on all conduit connections to air handling VFDs. Do not select VFDs with a Bluetooth option. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 450 2024 VFDs that are backed up by emergency power shall be selected and programmed to ride through a voltage dip, manual switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa), and ride through an automatic switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa). Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. Yaskawa Electric America c. Danfoss 43.42. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 44.43. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric fittings nipples shall be installed between all dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. For piping within technology space, no piping shall be provided in the technology space unless it is required for equipment within the room. All piping that is in the technology room must not be routed over technology equipment. All valves and metering associated with piping must have a drip pan located underneath with water detection. Pro pressPress fittings can be considered on a case by case basis. Discuss this request with NYULH Engineering prior to design. a. Mechanical Couplings for Grooved Pipe 1) Grooved piping shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and shall be based on a project by project basis prior to its use in design. b. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) 45.44. Pressure Regulating Valves/Stations High, Low, Medium pressure steam pipe gaskets are to be graphite type. Flexseal gaskets will not be accepted. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 451 2024 All steam station pneumatic lines must match the size of the controller’s pneumatic connection and be run as copper hard piping, soft tubing not accepted. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Leslie 2) Fairchild 3) Fische 4) Circor 5) Warren Controls 5)6) Emerson b. Water 1) Leslie 2) Cla Val 3) Watts 46.45. Pumps All pumps shall be premium efficiency. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Pumps shall be provided with either a strainer or suction diffusers with drain. Pump trim shall not have a balancing valve if pump will be provided with a VFD. Piping and pumps are to be independently supported. Spring type isolators on piping shall be recommended by acoustical consultant. If no consultant is on project, all piping within 50 feet of pump shall have spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. Chilled and hot water pumps shall be installed with removable sheetmetal insulated covers with separated walls and roofs. Cover walls and roofs shall be secured with hinged latches. Pumps with integrated VFDs shall not be used for any critical infrastructure loops. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 452 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Horizontal Split, End Suction and In Line 1) Armstrong 2) Aurora 3) Bell & Gossett 4) Gould 5) Peerless 6) Weinman 7) Grundfos b. Fuel Oil 1) IMO 2) Viking 3) Simplex 47.46. Radiant Heating Systems Unit shall be supplied with a wall thermostat and a manually operated on off switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ceiling 1) Rittling 2) Runtal b. Floor 1) Aero Tech 2) Airtex 3) Aztec 4) Uponor 48.47. Refrigerant Monitoring Systems Relay outputs for alarms and control shall be provided to connect to BMS. The unit shall also be provided with visual and audible alarms at the panel. Monitoring system shall have multi point capabilities. Panels shall have sensor components mounted within a waterproof enclosure. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mine Safety Appliances Company (MSA) 49.48. Sound Traps Sound traps shall only be installed if required per code for a maximum NC level of a room. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 453 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. I.A.C. (Industrial Acoustics Co.) b. Dynasonics c. Vibro Acoustics d. Price 50.49. Steam Traps See also Orifice steam traps Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Sarco 51.50. Steam Piping a. All steam traps shall be steamgard venturi orifice type wherever possible. The design engineer shall review each trap with the manufacturer to confirm if orifice type traps can be used. b. Steam traps shall be provided at all low points, end of mains, riser heals and at equipment connections. Base of drip legs to be provided with separate blowdown valves. c. Ensure all components of the details are installed (unions, shutoff valve, check valve, etc.) d. All piping from coils shall be pitched to the inlet of the condensate pump (no trapped piping). e. Drip legs shall be provided periodically for long runs of pipe at intervals between 100 to 125 feet. f. Drip legs shall be no less than half the size of