recent study in JAMA Ophthalmology led by Dr. Parikh and colleagues at NYU Langone Health investigated costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections versus ranibizumab PDS for patients with nAMD. The team found that in most clinical scenarios, ranibizumab PDS costs more than bevacizumab in all scenarios studied. For ranibizumab and aflibercept injections, ranibizumab PDS may confer cost savings if monthly injection regimens are required. Yet real-world data suggest bimonthly regimens are more common. “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections.” “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections,” Dr. Parikh adds. “For patients who are home bound, live in rural areas, have access issues, or no family support, the PDS system may be a good option, but what is best for patients is to still be monitored regularly, which for now requires in-person visits.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and Apellis Pharmaceuticals. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney The patient’s Tc-99m PYP scan on admission. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Three Failing Organs and a Rare Autoimmune Disease Almost 15 years ago, a then-26-year-old man with a history of Goodpasture syndrome received a kidney transplant from his brother. In 2021, he presented to an emergency room in Brooklyn with symptoms of severe heart failure. After his symptoms progressed, he was referred to cardiologist , an assistant professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health’s , who found evidence of restrictive cardiomyopathy—highly unusual for someone his age. After an initial echocardiogram and PYP scan, Dr. Kadosh established a working diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis; however, given the patient’s age, he was sent for confirmatory genetic testing, which ruled out hereditary amyloidosis. A follow-up endomyocardial biopsy was also conducted and was consistent with this finding. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant,” Dr. Kadosh says. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant.” As the patient’s condition continued to deteriorate, further tests revealed that he would also need a lung and kidney transpant. “His pulmonary pressures were extremely high and irreversible,” Dr. Kadosh explains. “The kidney that he’d received years earlier was rapidly failing.” After a multidisciplinary discussion, specialists from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute decided the patient needed a triple organ transplant: heart, lungs, and kidney. He was admitted to the hospital, where he waited for two months until a suitable donor became available. In March 2022, a team of transplant surgeons including Deane E. Smith, MD Jonathan Berger , MD , and clinical specialists conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs he needed, making this the first successful triple transplant for heart, lungs, and kidney in the Northeast. Three months after surgery, the patient is doing well, with additional diagnostic studies ongoing. “Due to consistently high calcium levels, our working diagnosis is tertiary hyperparathyroidism as a result of the failed kidney transplant, but we are still waiting for more definitive results,” Dr. Kadosh says. “Few transplant programs would have the expertise to take on a case like this due to the high degree of technical complexity,” Dr. Kadosh observes. “Our unique skills and experience, combined with our robust clinical infrastructure, gave us certainty that we could be successful.” An Unexpected Finding: Not Amyloidosis On admission, the patient’s PYP scan was highly positive, the most positive that Dr. Kadosh and team had ever seen, yet genetic testing and endomyocardical biopsy confirmed that the diagnosis was not cardiac amyloidosis. High Pulmonary Pressures The patient’s CT scan after his initial workup. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff A CT scan showed irreversible pulmonary hypertension, indicating that the patient could not undergo a heart and kidney transplant alone—he would not survive the surgery. Other tests revealed the kidney he received almost two decades earlier was rapidly failing. A Complex Procedure SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient was admitted into the hospital, and had to wait two months for a suitable donor. A large team of doctors and nurses from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs. Massive Calcification A stained slide showing calcification in myocytes. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Surgical pathology from the cardiac explant revealed extensive microcalcification within the myocyte cytoplasm and cardiac interstitium involving the entire left ventricle and both atria. Further studies showed consistently elevated serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels, suggesting the cause of his symptoms was tertiary hyperparathyroidism secondary to the failing kidney graft. Bernard S. Kadosh, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a cardiologist at the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center. His research and clinical interests include cardiomyopathy, novel therapies for heart failure, and improving outcomes in cardiogenic shock and heart transplantation. Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 ECMO machine. PHOTO: iStockPhotos Patients with severe COVID-19 who were supported with venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV-ECMO) experienced high rates of lung recovery and noteworthy long-term outcomes at one year, according to research published in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery Of 415 patients with confirmed COVID-19 admitted to the ICU at NYU Langone Health between March 10 and May 1, 2020, a multidisciplinary ECMO team selected 30 patients for VV-ECMO. Of those selected, 93.3 percent survived to discharge either to home or to acute rehabilitation. At a follow-up of nearly one year, 86.7 percent of those treated with ECMO were surviving, including one patient who underwent lung transplantation. “Our work suggests that with appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival,” says eane E. Smith, M , an associate professor in the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery. “These patients who leave the hospital without the need for oxygen therapy are very likely to remain alive and well one year later.” “With appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival.” Deane E. Smith, MD. Minimizing Ventilator Damage Most of the patients admitted to the ICU —77.8 percent—were intubated for mechanical ventilatory support. While conventional mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 has been associated with mortality greater than 50 percent , in some cases VV-ECMO may result in decreased ventilator support, minimizing damage to the lungs and allowing them to begin healing. “These patients received ECMO for severe COVID-19 during the height of the pandemic in New York City—at a time when very little was known about the likelihood for success,” Dr. Smith notes. The VV-ECMO patients were hospitalized for a median of 45 days and supported on ECMO for a median of 19 days. Results were encouraging: no patients left the hospital ventilator dependent, and only one patient required supplemental oxygen. Value of Patient Selection and Standardized Approach Patient selection was a significant factor in the success of VV-ECMO, according to Dr. Smith. “We were struck by the number of young, otherwise healthy patients who were dying from the disease. We felt patient selection was very important,” he says. The technology was not considered a “bailout” or salvage therapy but was offered to patients believed to have a reasonable chance for survival. “We did not feel that using ECMO to have patients survive simply to go to long-term facilities debilitated and ventilator-dependent was successful,” Dr. Smith adds. “We believed that we could protect the lungs and allow patients to return to their normal lives at the end of it.” A standardized approach to patient management and lung protection was equally valuable. The protocol included not deviating from lung protective ventilation strategies, early tracheostomy and frequent bronchoscopy, treatment of coinfection, and standardization of an anticoagulation regimen. Additionally, to help improve oxygenation, the team frequently positioned patients who were not recovering as quickly as expected in a prone position. “Most of these things, such as bronchoscopy or tracheostomy, were not considered safe in patients with COVID-19 at the start of the pandemic,” Dr. Smith says. “Our team was aggressive with these interventions much earlier than most hospitals Follow-up and Recovery Even in the patient who went on to require lung transplantation, the research team concluded that a period of rehabilitation was important to facilitate quicker recovery from his transplant surgery. “We learned that lung recovery is possible. When the pandemic started, that was not clear,” Dr. Smith says. Deane E. Smith, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery. He is director of the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Program, co-director of the Thoracic Aortic Disease Program, and associate director of Heart Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Alzheimers Dement . 2022 May;18:899-910. Study participants included those who had been hospitalized with COVID-19 as well as patients without COVID-19 representing a spectrum of cognitive function. . 2022 May;18:899-910. The study showed neurodegenerative biomarkers to be elevated in COVID-19 patients. A new paper published in Alzheimer’s and Dementia finds that key biomarkers of neurodegeneration are elevated in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 , potentially providing insight into the growing evidence of significant neurological effects in survivors of the illness . Some biomarkers matched or exceeded levels observed in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “Our study identified elevations of several blood-based markers specific to the central nervous system, including neuronal and glial markers,” says Jennifer A. Frontera, MD , who led the NYU Langone Health research team and is a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. “The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function,” says study co-author The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function Of the 251 patients with COVID-19 included in the study, 48 percent had new neurological events occur during hospitalization, with toxic-metabolic encephalopathy being the most common diagnosis. Overall, the neurodegenerative biomarkers found to correlate most strongly with COVID-19 severity and risk of encephalopathy were total tau (t-tau), phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL). Strikingly, levels of three biomarkers—GFAP, NfL, and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCHL1)—were as high or even higher in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 than in non-COVID patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes in survivors of COVID-19,” says Dr. Frontera. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes.” Jennifer A. Frontera, MD￼ Jennifer A. Frontera, MD, is a professor of neurology and a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. She specializes in vascular neurology and neurocritical care. offers consulting services to individual clients and businesses across the metropolitan area. As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing injuries and disability in the workplace. product design and biomechanical analysis . Our team works closely with each client to develop feasible and practical solutions that benefit both employees and organizations. Ergonomic Evaluations for Individuals offers ergonomic evaluations and recommendations for people who experience any type of discomfort while or after performing work activities. Such worksite accommodations may include suggestions about different ways to perform job tasks or recommendations to change a desk, chair, or other elements of the work setting. This service is also available to people who work from home and want to ensure their home office is comfortable and safe. Our team also conducts department-wide ergonomic interventions, in which we involve end users, supervisors, upper management, and other key personnel. Physical therapy can help people return to daily activities, including work, as quickly as possible and is the foundation of . We provide physical therapy, focusing on functional performance, aerobic conditioning and musculoskeletal fitness, pain control, education, ergonomic awareness, and work conditioning. Physical Therapy Treatment for Individuals Our treatment programs are individually designed to meet each person’s goals and are based on evaluations performed by a licensed physical therapist. Treatment typically occurs 2 to 3 times per week and takes 45 minutes to 1 hour to complete. Patients are expected to be active participants in their rehabilitation and are given the tools they need to become independent in their physical therapy program. The overall goals are to restore patients to their previous functional capabilities and enable them to return to their normal activities, including work. Our physical therapy program offers a proactive approach to treatment, in which you work with a therapist to incorporate the activities of daily life and job demands into a functional rehabilitation program. This includes an individualized approach to education and functional rehabilitation. We provide the tools you need to understand and manage pain and function. Our physical therapists are trained in the prevention and management of spine conditions, chronic pain, and occupational disorders. They are part of a team that includes a medical advisor, a psychiatrist, and a psychologist and are skilled in psychologically informed physical therapy, an approach that takes into consideration patient needs when developing a treatment plan. They coordinate referrals to other specialists, if necessary. Patient progress is monitored on a regular basis and discussed in weekly team meetings when necessary. Our physical therapy team is specially trained to treat the following people: those with all types of musculoskeletal conditions those with chronic pain those who are not responding to traditional treatments those who have emotional distress because of pain those who are preparing or recovering from surgery those who are focused on returning to work after an injury The evidence-based return to work program at is designed for people who have been out of work and need intense conditioning and retraining to meet the demands of their jobs. Our team—working in cooperation with case managers, human resources departments, and unions—evaluates and treats people with pain. The person with the injury participates in an intensive and comprehensive program that simulates their job demands whenever possible and is individualized to fit their specific needs. The goal is to prepare patients functionally and psychologically to return to work within two to four weeks after entering the program. Our program has a success rate of 95 percent for returning a person to any type of work, and a success rate of 90 percent for returning a person to their previous position. Before acceptance into the program, the medical advisor at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, a New York State–licensed physical therapist, and a licensed psychologist specializing in occupational orthopedics perform thorough medical, functional, and behavioral evaluations. This gives us a baseline functional assessment and is used to customize an appropriate rehabilitation program. The 4-week program is held for 4 hours a day, 5 days per week, for up to 80 total hours. Daily activities consist of patient education, intense physical work conditioning, and pain and stress management sessions. Conferences with attending physicians or other healthcare providers, such as nutritionists, are also offered. The program includes a weekly assessment of the patient’s progress expectations and short- and long-term functional goals, as well as a biweekly evaluation by the team’s physician. Ergonomic assessments are provided as needed. , we offer evidence-based psychological services to help people manage pain, and provide stress management techniques to help break the stress–pain cycle. Our cognitive behavioral approach to pain stresses the interaction between beliefs, attitudes, behaviors, and disability. We strive to provide you with tools you can use to manage pain and stress. This service is provided to people who may benefit from an interdisciplinary approach to physical therapy, as well as those who are struggling to cope with chronic pain. Cognitive Behavioral Pain Management Program Our psychologist works closely with your physical therapist and physician to provide collaborative care of the highest quality, so that you can return to a productive and satisfying life. Treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy is usually brief, lasting only about two to eight sessions. However, long-term treatment is also available. The cognitive behavioral pain management program starts with a comprehensive assessment conducted by a licensed psychologist specializing in pain management. As part of this program, we offer the following services: evaluation of a person’s stress level, symptoms, and coping skills at home and work education about the relationship between stress and pain, ways of monitoring one’s stress levels, and techniques for relaxing, coping, and problem-solving take home exercises and materials to encourage ongoing participation in stress management techniques referrals for people who may need additional support Presurgical Cognitive Behavioral Program The idea of surgery can be overwhelming. Our psychologists evaluate the stress levels of people who are preparing for surgery and provide cognitive behavioral therapy to address their specific concerns. Patients attend up to half a dozen 30-minute therapy sessions where they receive pain education; pre- and post-surgery coping strategies, such as relaxation with guided imagery; and planning for after surgery, including identifying sources of support and managing expectations about recovery. Medical Services for Individuals & Companies is part of a large network of orthopedic specialists at that comprises physicians and healthcare providers who have a particular interest in musculoskeletal disorders and the prevention of disability. Medical Evaluations Medical evaluations are important to determine the best treatment plan and the coordination of care. They may also be of interest to those who wish to seek a second opinion about a medical condition or treatment recommendation, such as surgery or work conditioning programs. We provide board-certified specialty evaluation of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders by our on-site medical advisor and offer additional resources through our affiliation with NYU Langone’s Spine Center. When appropriate, referrals are made for diagnostic procedures, specialist consultations, or physical therapy. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy Orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health, led by , professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery , have pioneered a minimally invasive in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) system, known as NanoScope. Featuring a 1.9-millimeter needle scope and suite of tools, the system is rapidly replacing more involved surgeries and dramatically reducing patients’ return to work and play times Dr. Kennedy is now training orthopedic surgeon Arianna Gianakos, DO, under a first-of-its kind IONA fellowship. Here, they discuss the procedure’s promising future. About the IONA Approach and Its Advantages What makes this in-office needle arthroscopy approach so unique? Dr. Kennedy: IONA is relatively new, and we were the first in the world to use this chip-on-tip technology. Until recently, there were devices that offered limited visualization, but nobody had the ability to do anything beyond make or confirm a diagnosis. Now, we have a range of 2-millimeter instruments that allow us to repair or replace cartilage injuries and defects, take away scar tissue, and even deliver biologic agents. We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward. “We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward.” Already, we have published a number of papers showing patient outcomes, including return to play times, are reduced by an order of magnitude in comparison to what we would be doing in an operating room. Dr. Gianakos, as the first fellow to be trained formally on this procedure, what are your goals for learning this technique? Dr. Gianakos: After I completed a year of foot and ankle specialty training at Massachusetts General Hospital, I wanted to further specialize in sports medicine at a leading center in the field. My goal for learning the NanoScope system is to help transfer the technology and training up to Yale. That will also allow us to collaborate with NYU Langone and other top-notch institutions like Yale, Harvard, Amsterdam Medical Center, and Fortius Clinic in London so we can collaborate on future projects and research. The NanoScope system allows you as the surgeon to show patients their procedure in real time. What’s the advantage? The patient, under local anesthetic, can observe everything and be very much part of the procedure. The result is a much better understanding than if I were to have to explain or draw what I did after a procedure. I can get them to move their ankle or knee and illustrate how things have improved even as we’re doing it. If there’s a divot out of their talus, patients love to see how we’re going in, putting in a scaffold, and adding a biologic to it. The divot’s gone, and now they know because they can see it. What’s Possible with IONA What kinds of procedures are currently possible with this system? My initial focus is impingement cases and being able to debride both soft tissue and bony injuries, cartilage injuries. We can also correct osteochondral defects and perform microfracture and biocartilage surgeries. We’re writing up a report on the technique for ATFL (anterior talo-fibular ligament) injuries that we’ll be presenting at the international ISAKOS Congress. Dr. Kennedy is focused on tendoscopy procedures as well, which is an area in which many foot and ankle fellows don’t get much training in primary fellowships. After a more conventional surgery for an ankle sprain, for example, soccer players would be back playing within eight weeks. When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement. “When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement.” Dr. Gianakos, how else has this technology aided your research? I’m currently working towards my PhD, which is in gender differences in foot and ankle surgery. Dr. Kennedy has been very supportive and is on a lot of my presentations and research projects, and this technology has helped some things come to light. My hands are a different size than Dr. Kennedy’s hands, for example. How does that impact how the new pen instrumentation and camera fit? I’m also exploring how men and women are responding to watching the surgery and asking questions about it. Improving Patient Care with IONA Where do you see this technique heading in improving patient care? Originally, we were doing lots of debridements, but now we have the ability to build as well as remove tissue or debris. We’re building ligaments where we’re putting in scaffolds for cartilage repair and regeneration. For years, the field was delivering biologic agents like platelet-rich plasma or bone marrow or fat in a fairly haphazard way. Now we have precision-guided delivery. We can see where the problem is, see what is the best biologic used to address it, and deliver it exactly where it needs to be. We are constantly evolving. For instance, we can do a menisectomy and even meniscal repair and labral ligament release here in the office now. We’re minimizing the instrument size so that we can minimize the soft tissue damage or trauma to maximize the patient’s outcome. By doing so, I really feel that we’re heading for the next step: a lot of what we do in an operating room now will not be done there in five years’ time. Dr. Kennedy is a paid consultant for Arthrex, which produces the NanoScope. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment With catheter ablation not an option, multidisciplinary team completes an innovative radioablation. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Award-winning researcher uncovers impact of cardiovascular events on tumor recurrence. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Cholesterol levels spiked during the pandemic among groups already at risk. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in landmark ACTIV-4A trial. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Researchers find improved symptoms in a first-of-its kind clinical trial. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure First-of-its-kind center will advance basic science, trials, and training on clinical benefits of psychedelics. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting This March 7–11, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in Las Vegas At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty presented 77 posters, 31 papers, 32 videos, and 38 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). See our AAOS Booth Agenda here Tuesday, March In-Office Needle Arthroscopy for Treatment of Anterior Ankle Impingement Orthopaedic Video Theater (Award Winners) Ajay C. Kanakamedala, MD; Christopher Colasanti, MD; Dylan T. Lowe, MD; Eoghan Hurley, PhD, MCH, MBCHB; John G. Kennedy, MD, Mohammad T. Azam, BS 7 am 5 pm Thursday, March The Long-term Effect of Intraoperative Hip Fracture Injections (HiFI) on Function and Patient Reported Outcomes: A Randomized Controlled Trial Poster Presentation: Trauma Rivka Chinyere Ihejirika-Lomedico, MD; Nathan August Lorentz, MD; Sara Jo Solasz, BA; Kenneth A. Egol, MD, FAAOS; Philipp Leucht, MD, FAAOS Friday, March 1 PO 564 – Second Dose of Dexamethasone Reduces Postoperative Opioid Consumption, Pain, and Length of Stay in Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty Adult Reconstruction Knee Christian T. Oakley, BS; Jerry Arraut, BS; Joshua C. Rozell, MD; Kyle W. Lawrence, BS; Mark A. Kurapatti, BS; Omid S. Barzideh, MD, FAAOS; Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, FAAOS 9:05 am Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) may closely resemble epileptic seizures, complicating diagnosis and management. Patients with PNES benefit from specialty care for their atypical seizures that lack abnormal neuronal epileptiform activity However, despite a high prevalence rate (2-33 per 100,000) in the general population, the pathogenesis of PNES is not well-understood and treatment options remain limited. “Functional neurological disorders, including PNES, pose a frustrating challenge for both psychiatrists and neurologists,” says Deepti Anbarasan, MD , a triple board-certified specialist in neurology, psychiatry, and epilepsy. “Due to various reasons including the complexity of their neuropsychiatric symptoms, providers may feel ill-equipped to debrief patients about the diagnosis in the acute care setting and ensure appropriate outpatient follow-up.” Dr. Anbarasan is uniquely positioned to treat patients with functional neurological disorders (FNDs) such as PNES. Her approach uses a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), mindfulness-based interventions, and pharmacotherapy in the inpatient and outpatient settings to improve symptoms and quality of life. High Unmet Need Primary ownership of patients with PNES has remained a subject of contention in the neurology and psychiatry communities, making management of these patients continually challenging, says Dr. Anbarasan. In part, this may be explained by the lack of a single etiological model for PNES and the absence of a liable universal phenotype for this condition. From the psychological perspective, patients with PNES exhibit a simultaneous existence of both hyperarousal responses (e.g., hypervigilance, somatic preoccupation, emotional reactivity) and hypoarousal responses (e.g., dissociation, alexithymia, avoidance). From the neurological perspective, recent structural and functional studies have begun to uncover the neurobiological underpinnings of PNES and other FNDs. “We know that PNES has a high association with a history of prior physical or sexual abuse, as well as medical comorbidities, such as mild traumatic brain injury, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and chronic pain syndrome,” says Dr. Anbarasan. Diagnosis and Treatment While the differential for PNES is broad, diagnosis is usually established using video electroencephalography monitoring. Specifically, the recorded spell must be confirmed as being typical of what occurs in daily life. Prompt diagnosis allows for more rapid implementation of appropriate psychological and psychiatric interventions and cessation of antiepileptic drugs, if necessary, says Dr. Anbarasan. Medications may be necessary for some patients, especially if they have comorbid psychiatric conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder or major depressive disorder. Other treatment strategies include hypnosis, biofeedback, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing , which integrates aspects of several psychotherapies. Reducing Stigma Dr. Anbarasan hopes to encourage medical professionals to refer patients with PNES and other neuropsychiatric conditions for specialist management. “Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” “PNES is a real condition that arises in response to circumstances in patients’ lives. Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” Deepti Anbarasan, MD, is a clinical associate professor of psychiatry and neurology. Her clinical interest lies in the management of mood and behavioral disturbances associated with epilepsy and other neurodegenerative disorders. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 In April 2021, —an internationally recognized expert on anxiety, stress and prolonged grief—gave a talk entitled “The Mental Health Impact of the COVID Pandemic: A Major Life Stressor” as part of a video lecture series produced by the National Institutes of Health COVID-19 Scientific Interest Group. Dr. Simon covered topics including the pandemic as a life stressor; current knowledge about its relationship to stressor-related conditions; COVID-specific factors that increase risk for negative mental health outcomes; and therapeutic approaches to supporting mental wellness after the death of a loved one. The lecture expanded on themes Dr. Simon had explored with two colleagues— , the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Psychiatry and chair of Psychiatry, and Glenn Saxe, MD , professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry—in a viewpoint published in October 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association . The paper was among the first to highlight and propose a set of public health strategies to mitigate one of the widespread mental health impacts of the pandemic: the toll of mass bereavement. “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk.” “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk,” Dr. Simon explains. A Tiered Response to the Impact of Mass Death As described in JAMA, effective mental health response to the losses of the pandemic requires a tiered approach. After a death occurs, PCPs can use validated screening tools—such as the PTSD Checklist and the Prolonged Grief 13 questionnaire—to identify family or friends who are at highest risk of developing mental health conditions. For individuals identified at risk, or who have acquired disorders related to their loss, the goal is to deliver evidence-based interventions to return pathological manifestations of bereavement to their normal grief trajectories. Ideally, such interventions could be implemented within primary care or community settings. However, an additional role for primary care is to identify individuals with highest risk and complexity, who should be referred to a specialist. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement. Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” This strategy requires that training resources be offered to PCPs and community mental health practitioners about grief and traumatic distress and their variable course. Such training should include tools for assessing and treating bereavement-related mental health conditions. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement,” Dr. Simon observes. “Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” A Roadmap for Treating At-Risk Children via Telehealth The pandemic’s disruptions have been especially challenging for two groups of children: those with mental health disorders, and those at risk of maltreatment by family members. Clinicians and caseworkers have often been forced to rely on video chats rather than home visits. Meanwhile, the pandemic has created conditions that can exacerbate a child’s behavioral problems or their vulnerability to abuse. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7.” To help mental health clinicians and caseworkers navigate this difficult terrain, Dr. Saxe and colleagues in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry developed a series of 11 tip sheets for remotely administering Trauma Systems Therapy (TST)—a model pioneered by Dr. Saxe and widely adopted by child-welfare agencies—in a COVID-19 context. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7,” Dr. Saxe says. “COVID has created a whole new landscape. We’re trying to create a roadmap for moving forward.” Disseminated through a national network of centers that use TST, the tip sheets offer guidance on topics such as problem determination; assessment of environmental stability and safety; building emotional regulation skills; and keeping children and caregivers engaged in the therapeutic process. “Some of the most crucial advice concerns how caregivers can take care of themselves and their teams,” Dr. Saxe adds. “Leaders should assure their staffs that efforts are being taken to protect them. Administrators should share information in a transparent way. We all need to take our own emotional temperature, identify activities that help us cope, and check in with each other regularly.” Glenn Saxe, MD, is a professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry. He serves as director of the Trauma Systems Training Center, the primary center for the training and dissemination of Trauma Systems Therapy in the U.S. He is also director of the Center for Child Welfare Practice Innovation, a center of the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. His research focuses on psychiatric consequences of traumatic events in children and on factors that contribute to risk and resilience in the face