NYU Langone Hospitals Community Health Needs Assessment and Implementation Plan/Community Service Plan 2019 2021 Adopted June 2019 NYU Langone Hospitals Board of Trustees Copies of this document can be downloaded from the NYU Langone Health website at: http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan The Executive Summary of our Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan (available here) shares our analysis and conclusions in a more accessible format for a broader constituency. This document, which is written at an 8th grade literacy level, has been translated into Arabic, Chinese, and Spanish. It is available at all of NYULH inpatient locations. We welcome your questions and comments. Please feel free to contact Sue A. Kaplan, JD, Research Associate Professor, Department of Population Health, NYU Langone at: sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org or Kathleen Hopkins, Vice President for Community Programs, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone at: kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org. iiTable of Contents Section Pages MISSION 1 OVERVIEW 1 4 COMMUNITY HEALTH NEEDS ASSESSMENT 5 22 I. Definition and Brief Description of Communities Served 5 II. Public Participation 5 12 A. Sunset Park Needs Assessment 8 9 B. The Lower East Side and Chinatown Needs Assessment 10 C. Red Hook Needs Assessment 11 12 III. Assessment and Selection of Public Health Priorities 12 22 A. Priority Area: Preventing Chronic Diseases 12 18 → Needs and Assets: reducing tobacco use 12 14 → Need and Assets: addressing the connection between housing and health 14 17 → Need and Assets: preventing and addressing obesity and cardiovascular disease 17 18 B. Priority Area: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children 18 20 → Needs and Assets: supporting families through parenting, early childhood, and teen pregnancy prevention programs 18 20 C. Community needs not addressed and why 20 D. Information gaps that limit NYULH’s ability to assess communities’ health needs 20 E. Existing assets, facilities, and resources 21 22 COMMUNITY SERVICE PLAN/IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY 22 I. New York State and New York City Public Health Priorities 23 II. Addressing Health Disparities 23 III. Programs, Progress and Plans: Preventing Chronic Diseases 24 49 iii Section Pages A. Tobacco Free Community 24 31 B. Health + Housing Project 31 35 C. Healthy Habits/ Programa de Hábitos Saludables 35 38 D. Greenlight early child obesity prevention program 38 44 E. REACH FAR Brooklyn: Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn 44 49 IV. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children 49 63 A. ParentChild+ 49 52 B. Video Interaction Project 52 55 C. Project SAFE 55 58 D. ParentCorps 58 63 V. Cross Sector Capacity Building Initiatives 63 71 A. Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium 63 65 B. Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center 65 68 C. Brooklyn Data Station 68 69 D. Red Hook Health Network 69 70 E. Addressing Social Determinants of Health 70 71 F. Incubation fund 71 VI. Dissemination 71 72 VII. Community Engagement 72 73 VIII. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures 73 iv APPENDICES A. Data Sources and References Consulted B. Input from Persons Who Represent the Broad Interests of the Community C. Red Hook Needs and Assets Assessment D. The Southwest Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium: Needs Assessment and Priorities in Sunset Park E. Evidence Base for Programs F. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures 1 Mission NYU Langone Health is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers. Composed of NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”) and NYU School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”), NYU Langone Health has a trifold mission: to serve, teach and discover. Located in the heart of Manhattan, with additional facilities throughout the New York City area, NYULH currently operates the following five inpatient facilities: Tisch Hospital, the acute care facility located on the main campusKimmel Pavilion, a newly opened, state of the art healthcare facility on the main campusNYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital (formerly known as Hospital for Joint Diseases), anorthopedic, neurologic and rheumatologic specialty hospital, which also houses RuskRehabilitationHassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, which provides pediatric inpatient care,outpatient care, procedural and surgical services, the KiDS Emergency Department on themain campus and multiple ambulatory servicesNYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn (formerly known as NYU Lutheran Medical Center), a full service teaching hospital and Level I Trauma Center located in Sunset Park, BrooklynIts inpatient facilities will soon include the 591 bed NYU Winthrop Hospital in Mineola, Long Island. Ambulatory facilities number over thirty, with the majority located in Manhattan and Brooklyn, including the Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute designated cancer center; the Ambulatory Care Center; the Center for Musculoskeletal Care; and NYU Langone Cobble Hill, a free standing Emergency Department in Cobble Hill. In addition, Sunset Park Health Council, Inc., an affiliate of NYULH, is a Federally Qualified Health Center network, which includes nine primary care health centers in Brooklyn and over 40 school and shelter based extension clinics, under the name Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (FHCs). NYULH is the principal teaching hospital for NYUSoM, which has trained thousands of physicians and scientists since its founding in 1841. The School of Medicine owns and operates a faculty group practice that delivers patient care at more than 375 practice sites and has affiliations with the Manhattan campus of the Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Health Care System and with the NYC Health and Hospitals facilities Bellevue and Gouverneur in Manhattan, and Woodhull in Brooklyn. Financial assistance Throughout NYU Langone Health, we provide financial assistance for patients with limited income, regardless of their insurance status. Our charity care policy reflects our strong commitment to providing comprehensive and high quality healthcare services to all of our patients. Financial counselors inform patients whether they qualify for free or low cost insurance, such as Medicaid, Child Health Plus, and Family Health Plus. If the finance counselor finds that the individual does not qualify for low cost insurance, they facilitate applications for a discount on copays, deductibles, and charges based on a sliding scale. Patients may apply regardless of immigration status. Financial assistance notices and applications are available at each inpatient location in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, English, Greek, Italian, Korean, Polish, Russian, and Spanish. Additionally, Family Health Centers assist uninsured individuals with enrollment into public benefits like Medicaid and Medicare. For information about the NYULH financial assistance program go to: https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance 2 Overview Growing out of our Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA) and aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City public health priorities, the NYU Langone Hospitals (NYULH) three year implementation plan (the Community Service Plan, “CSP”) focuses on Preventing Chronic Diseases by reducing risk factors for obesity and cardiovascular disease and decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, and on Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children through parenting, early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. Our Community Service Plan programs span multiple sectors: early childhood settings and schools, primary care, housing, and community settings, such as faith based organizations and social service providers. Drawing on its expertise in developing and implementing effective approaches to health promotion at the community level, the Department of Population Health (DPH) has served as the architect for the CHNA and Plan since 2013. Since 2016, DPH and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have worked together to develop a CSP designed to create synergies across programs and to take advantage of the combined expertise of our larger institution, the strong foundation of work under both of our previous Plans, and the strengths of our community partnerships. Department of Population Health approach to advancing population health and health equityThe Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (FHC) is a federally qualified health center network with a longstanding history of serving underserved and immigrant communities of Brooklyn and throughout New York City. The FHC provides high quality primary and preventive outpatient care to adults and children regardless of their ability to pay or their immigration and health insurance status. With over 100,000 patients, the FHC network handles over 600,000 medical, dental, and behavioral health visits each year. The mission of the FHCs is to improve the overall health of the communities we serve by delivering high quality, culturally competent health and human services in community based settings. The FHCs are nationally recognized for innovative, affordable, high quality care and are one of the largest employers within the communities they serve. As true health and community revival innovators, the FHCs established the nation’s largest dental residency program, the largest school health program in New York, a community medicine program serving more than 7,000 homeless New Yorkers, and one of the first health focused AmeriCorps programs. In fiscal year 2018 alone, the FHCs provided 1,245 families with direct assistance to obtain public benefits, adult literacy classes, legal services, health referrals, and emergency food. 3 Through its Community Service Plan, NYULH brings to bear a wide range of expertise: in obesity prevention, health literacy, parenting, family and community engagement, smoking cessation, prevention science, and population health. The programs and priorities remain consistent with NYULH prior years’ Community Service Plans, but under the current CSP, existing programs have been extended and new initiatives added. The CSP’s geographic scope includes the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn; we recently also completed a needs and asset assessment in Red Hook, Brooklyn and are beginning to implement CSP programs there as well. Priority Areas of Focus Preventing Chronic Diseases:  Tobacco Free Community includes an array of programs to address high smoking rates among immigrant populations, particularly Asian American men: a community navigator program, a pilot financial incentive program, a policy initiative to facilitate access to smoking cessation treatment, and a program to educate youth about e cigarettes. These programs are being implemented in partnership with Asian Americans for Equality, the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center, and the New York City Housing Authority.  The Health+Housing Project, a housing based Community Health Worker program, was implemented in two low income buildings on the Lower East Side, and is being continued by building management, in partnership with Henry Street Settlement.  Healthy Habits/ Programa de Hábitos Saludables, an intervention that encourages healthier living in order to address obesity for pre adolescent children using group education and activities for the entire family, is being implemented in Family Health Centers sites and in school settings.  Greenlight, a program to improve health literacy and foster healthful behavior, is being adapted and implemented in partnership with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center to lower rates of childhood obesity in the Chinese American community and is being extended to the Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone in Sunset Park.  Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans (REACH FAR), an evidence based program designed to prevent cardiovascular disease by increasing access to healthy foods and providing culturally tailored health coaching and messages, is being implemented in mosques on the Lower East Side and in Sunset Park, which are also implementing a lay health worker led breast and cervical cancer screening program. Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children:  The ParentChild+ (PC+), a national, evidence based early literacy, parenting and school readiness program, is being expanded in Sunset Park to serve additional low income immigrant families. The program provides intensive home visiting to families who are challenged by poverty, low levels of education, language and literacy barriers and other obstacles, and with children between two and four years old. 4  The Video Interaction Project (VIP), an evidence based parenting program that uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents strengthen early development and literacy in their children, is being expanded into Sunset Park.  Project SAFE, a peer education program employing an evidence based youth development approach to prevent teen pregnancy and HIV/AIDS, is being implemented in Sunset Park and other Brooklyn communities.  ParentCorps, an evidence based family centered early childhood intervention to improve child health, behavior and learning, will continue to provide support to University Settlement Society programs on the Lower East Side and in Brooklyn, and is expanding to assess needs and provide digital supports to Pre K for All in Sunset Park in Brooklyn. Cross sector capacity building initiatives: Several new cross cutting initiatives have grown out of our work and partnerships:  NYULH has launched the Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium to develop relationships and infrastructure, and build capacity to support people with health and housing needs, with an initial focus on Southwest Brooklyn. This initiative is an outgrowth of the CSP Health+Housing Project, a housing based Community Health Worker Program in two low income buildings on the Lower East Side.  NYULH has established the Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center (CHW RRC) to serve as a resource to community based organizations, health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations that are planning, or seeking to strengthen, CHW initiatives. The CHW RRC will help develop, support and evaluate programs that use lay health workers to enhance care, link services, and improve community health.  NYULH has created a Brooklyn Data Station to support partnerships and foster collaborations that aim to improve population health in Sunset Park, Red Hook and other parts of Brooklyn. The Data Station serves as a shared data and resource repository, supporting a knowledge network and a forum to translate findings into action to improve health.  The Red Hook Community Health Network initiative will address residents’ health and social service needs through organizational capacity building and linkage to resources within and beyond Red Hook. The initiative is being designed in close partnership with The Alex House Project, Good Shepherd Services, Red Hook Community Justice Center, and Red Hook Initiative following an in depth Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment completed in fall 2018.  Recognizing the strong connection between health status and socio economic factors, NYULH is developing an initiative to address social determinants of health (SDOH), which will pilot a system throughout the FHC network to provide assessment, referral and follow 5 up services, engaging a wide array of community agencies, including economic development and legal services. Through the Community Health Needs Assessment and partnerships embedded in the Community Service Plan, we aim to create a platform for evidence based health promotion and disease prevention at the neighborhood level with a focus on issues of high priority to the public’s health. Community Health Needs Assessment I. Definition and Brief Description of Communities Served As a major academic medical center, NYU Langone Health serves a broad community of diverse populations with a wide range of healthcare needs. Its primary service area includes Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens, and the secondary service area extends into Staten Island, Long Island, Westchester, and New Jersey. With 235+ outpatient locations and 6+ million outpatient visits in 2017, NYU Langone’s community extends beyond its contiguous boundaries. To understand the needs of our primary service areas, we reviewed all of the Community Health Profiles for New York City provided by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, as well as other health and demographic data (see Appendix A). Based on that review (described for each community below) and in light of our commitment to continuing our CSP partnerships and work, the 2019 2021 Community Service Plan continues to focus on the communities served through the previous Plans: the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn. In addition, over the course of the past year and a half, we have worked closely with partners in Red Hook, Brooklyn to understand the needs and priorities of this vibrant but under resourced and medically underserved community. Our 2019 2021 Plan extends to that community as well. These communities the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn were selected based on the need for service as evidenced by social determinants of health, health disparities, risk factors, and utilization data. Although these communities are not geographically contiguous, they share important similarities, including the diversity of their populations, an infrastructure of strong community based organizations, and pockets of poverty amidst gentrification. II. Public Participation Public participation in assessing community need and setting priorities has been a continuous process over the past three years. We have engaged a range of stakeholders with a particular focus on medically underserved residents to assess community needs; set priorities; develop, design, and implement programs; and share and celebrate progress and results. We employ diverse, often multi pronged strategies and rely on our extensive network of community partners and advisory boards and committees to provide ongoing outreach and program development. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone advisory structure includes the Sunset Park Health Council as the community governing board; culturally specific advisory groups; and 6 program specific councils, including the Teen Health Council. The NYULH Community Service Plan Coordinating Council, which brings together NYU Langone faculty and staff, community partners, and policymakers, meets quarterly to oversee program implementation, share findings, provide insight into community need, and identify priorities. In addition, we regularly consult with public health and policy experts in the City and State Health Departments, the State Office of Mental Health, the City Department of Education, the New York City Housing Authority, the NYC Office of Housing Preservation and Development, and other agencies and organizations with expertise on the needs of low income populations, including community leaders, resident associations, community based organizations, advocacy groups, and members of Community Boards. A list of organizations and individuals consulted is attached as Appendix B. To understand more about community need and to support policymakers, providers and community groups in understanding community demographics, and housing and health outcomes (a high community priority), we undertook a comprehensive analysis of existing sources of data, including the NYC Department of City Planning Population Fact Finder; the NYC Department of Health Neighborhood Health Atlas; and the NYULH City Health Dashboard. (See Appendix A for a list of data sources.) Summaries of community health, social, and economic data, as well as updates on the CHNA and CSP, were shared with Brooklyn Community Board 7 and Manhattan Community Boards 3 and 6. These meetings included residents, as well as representatives from businesses, and The City Health Dashboard: a CHNA Resource The City Health Dashboard (cityhealthdashboard.com), a collaboration among the Department of Population Health at the NYU School of Medicine, the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, the National League of Cities, the National Resource Network, and the International City/County Management Association, is an interactive website to track health and health related metrics at the city level. The goal of this major initiative, funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, is to equip cities with a one stop resource allowing users to view and compare data from multiple sources on health and the factors that shape health to guide local solutions that create healthier and more equitable communities. Collection, analysis, presentation and discussion of data → To support our CHNA, we bring the analytic capacity of the Department of Population Health (through our Data Station described below), to obtain and analyze existing databases, as well as any data that have been collected by community partners (see Appendix A). → Thoughtful and accessible presentation of these findings often serves as a catalyst for discussion with community members and partners about needs and priorities. → We use and strengthen our existing relationships with partners to engage in a review of data, to identify unanswered questions, and to obtain input through a variety of methods, including surveys, group discussions, and focus groups. Data are always made available to community partners for their own use. → We continually use data that are collected through existing projects, and the experience of our partners in providing services, to shed light on unmet need, to strengthen programs, and organically to develop new priorities and initiatives. → As issues arise, we work with our partners to collect additional data on needs and assets. For example, we are working with the NYULH Brooklyn Arab Community Advisory Council (19 community based organizations) to learn more about the health needs and priorities of that community. 7 government and community based organizations. These summaries were also used to inform and solicit input from NYULH Brooklyn and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone advisory groups and frontline staff and from the CSP Coordinating Council. Similar summaries were compiled in partnership with Red Hook organizations. Over 600 people who live or work in Red Hook participated in the Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets assessment, which included a review of community data from different agencies and organizations and primary data collection through dot voting, a survey, and small group conversations (the latter two available in English, Cantonese, and Spanish). Notice and outreach was facilitated through a network of over 20 community based organizations and public posting of tools, data, and reports (https://redhookchnaa.wordpress.com). Participants who provided contact information received individual outreach for additional opportunities to share feedback and review findings and next steps. We have solicited written comments from the public on our previous CHNA and implementation plan both through our website and at public meetings. Although no written comments were received, comments and discussion followed public presentations at community meetings. Through this in depth and community engaged process, we have compiled and updated our profile of the health needs and strengths of the Lower East Side and Chinatown, Sunset Park and Red Hook. This analysis has, in turn, informed the priorities and partnerships that comprise our Community Service Plan. Below, we describe CHNAs for each community. We begin with a description of the demographics of Sunset Park and the Lower East Side/Chinatown and a summary of the process and findings from our CHNA for Red Hook, Brooklyn. This is followed by an in depth assessment of specific health needs related to preventing chronic diseases by reducing risk factors for obesity and cardiovascular disease and decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, and on promoting healthy women, infants and children through parenting, early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. 8 A. Sunset Park Needs Assessment Sunset Park residents make up the highest percentage of residents who use NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Sunset Park is a mixed residential, industrial, and commercial neighborhood in Southwest Brooklyn, adjoining the waterfront. The Sunset Park Community District (Brooklyn CD 7)∗, which includes neighboring Windsor Terrace, is home to about 150,000 residents. More than one quarter of its residents () are under the age of 20. For nearly 200 years, Sunset Park has served as a first destination for immigrants today, of residents are foreign born. Two crowded and vibrant commercial corridors of shops, restaurants, and small businesses serve the large Latinx () and Asian () communities. About of the Latinx residents are of Mexican origin, and about of the Asian residents are of Chinese origin. With a network of community and faith based organizations and local industries that provide entry level service and factory jobs, the neighborhood has supported and provided a foothold for many new immigrants. Access to and awareness of culturally appropriate health and social services in the community are consistently identified as top needs and priorities by community members. ∗ Data for this report uses the US Census Bureau Public Use Microdata Area (PUMA) approximation for Sunset Park Brooklyn Community District 7, unless otherwise noted. 9 Social, economic, and environmental issues impacting the community continue to be top areas of need and top priorities identified by community members. Sunset Park is a community that grapples with high levels of poverty, low educational attainment, and health disparities. Twenty seven percent of residents live below the Federal Poverty level compared to of residents in New York City; of families live below the Federal Poverty level compared with of families in New York City as a whole. Poverty is particularly acute among families with children of families with children under 18 live below the poverty level. The median household income is $51,714. Sunset Park ranks among the neighborhoods with the highest percent of adults 25 years and older with less than a high school education have less than a high school education, including who have less than a 9th grade education. Unemployment is slightly lower in Sunset Park () than in NYC (), yet many workers lack health insurance ( in Sunset Park compared with citywide). A high percent of the Sunset Park population has access to health insurance through Medicaid—with nearly two out of three () children under age 19 years and about one out of three () adults ages 19 64 years covered only by Medicaid. English language proficiency is a major barrier for Sunset Park residents: of residents ages 5 years and older speak a primary language other than English at home. Forty nine percent of residents ages 5 years and older have limited English proficiency. In addition, as discussed in more detail below, Sunset Park has the second oldest housing stock in New York City and residents often have no choice but to rent units in poor condition. One out of three renter households is severely rent burdened, meaning that their gross rent is more than one half of their household income. Sunset Park ranks 3rd in the City for severe overcrowding and community members are concerned about housing stability and being displaced from the community. 10 B. The Lower East Side and Chinatown Needs Assessment To increase our impact and create opportunities for synergy across programs, starting with the 2013 2016 CHNA, NYULH focused on the area closest to the Manhattan campus with the greatest need: the Lower East Side and Chinatown. The Lower East Side/Chinatown Community District, which includes neighboring East Village (Manhattan Community District 3), is a community with concentrated pockets of poverty and a high percentage of Latinx and Asians groups that experience disparities in many health outcomes. Located along the eastern shore of lower Manhattan, this neighborhood is one of the earliest areas settled in New York City and was a historic stop for immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century. Today, the Community District is home to about 160,000 residents, including foreign born. Immigrant populations comprise a large percentage () of residents in the Chinatown neighborhood. In recent years, the Asian population has declined while there has been an increase in white residents. Today, the population is about white, Asian, and Latinx Overall, of the population in Manhattan CD 3 have limited English proficiency. Among the Chinese language speakers, speak English “less than very well” compared with for Chinese language speakers in Manhattan as a whole. Manhattan CD 3 ranks among the neighborhoods with the highest percent of adults ages 65 years and older— of the population overall, with higher percents in the Lower East Side and Chinatown neighborhood areas. In its most recent Needs Statement, the Community Board highlighted the growing need for senior services. With of individuals living below poverty, the Lower East Side/Chinatown stands in stark contrast to the surrounding neighborhoods in Lower Manhattan the Financial District and Greenwich Village/SoHo which rank among the neighborhoods with the lowest poverty rates in all of New York City (). Yet even within the Community District, there are areas of wealth, with of residents having incomes five times higher than poverty level. Newer wealthier developments are arising alongside older housing stock home to residents with lower incomes. Nearly of all public housing units in Manhattan are located in Community District 3 (about of the total for NYC), yet as the neighborhood continues to gentrify, there is growing community concern about access to affordable housing. 11 C. Red Hook Needs Assessment Over the past year and a half, we conducted a Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA) and are collaboratively developing a plan to prioritize and address pressing health concerns and issues in Red Hook, Brooklyn. The assessment was particularly important because readily available data for Red Hook such as the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Community District Profile are often aggregated with more affluent neighboring communities, thereby masking Red Hook’s poverty and need. The in depth assessment was planned by a team of six organizations: The Alex House Project, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Good Shepherd Services, NYULH Department of Population Health, the Red Hook Community Justice Center, and the Red Hook Initiative. During the assessment process, the CHNAA team:  Reviewed data from organizations and agencies, and identified missing data needing further exploration;  Collected additional information from people who live and work in Red Hook through dot voting, surveying, and small group conversations;  Identified strengths and existing programs and resources; and  Identified potential future actions to address top health concerns. Red Hook is a resilient, diverse and lively waterfront community in Brooklyn. The neighborhood is home to New York’s second largest public housing complex, the Red Hook Houses. More than half of Red Hook residents live in public housing. The majority of Red Hook residents are racial and ethnic minorities. Forty one percent identify as Latinx, African American, white, and approximately Asian. Twenty three percent of Red Hook’s approximately 11,000 residents are under the age of 18. Like many NYC neighborhoods, Red Hook is experiencing gentrification. The percentage of residents with incomes below the federal poverty level stayed about the same from 2006 to 2016, but the percentage of the wealthiest residents (incomes at least five times higher than poverty level) increased in the areas surrounding the Red Hook Houses. Poverty, high unemployment, and low educational attainment are challenges in the community. Forty four percent of children under the age of 18 Red Hook live in poverty. Nineteen percent of residents 16 and older are unemployed, compared with of residents citywide. Thirty five percent of adults have not completed high school. Red Hook is geographically isolated. Many residents live far from the subway system and the neighborhood is cut off from the rest of Brooklyn by the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, causing difficulty in accessing resources not available in the community. Community concerns about Map created in “DATA2GO.NYC,” Measure of America of the Social Science Research Council. 12 access to healthcare and affordable food has increased with the closures of Long Island College Hospital in 2013 and Pathmark in 2015. This isolation, however, also lends to social cohesion, neighborhood pride, and resiliency. Red Hook has a connected network of community organizations, and residents are engaged in the neighborhood. We reached over 600 people who live and work in Red Hook through over 20 organizations. Participating community members’ top health concerns align with the health needs and risks the CHNAA team identified through hospital, NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and other data: asthma, stress and anxiety, diabetes, smoking and substance use. (See Appendix C for the full report.) III. Assessment and Selection of Public Health Priorities Aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City public health priorities, the Community Service Plan focuses on Preventing Chronic Diseases by reducing risk factors for obesity and cardiovascular disease and reducing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, and on Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children through parenting, early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. A. Priority Area: Preventing Chronic Diseases → Needs and Assets: reducing tobacco use Reducing tobacco use is a key public health priority for New York City and New York State. Despite the existence of effective tobacco dependence treatments, cigarette smoking remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the U.S., responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths annually and 8.6 million people living with a serious smoking related illness, including many forms of cancer, heart disease, stroke, and lung diseases. According to the National Cancer Institute, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among both men and women in the United States, and approximately of lung cancer deaths among men and among women are due to smoking. Smoking also causes many other types of cancer, including cancers of the throat, mouth, nasal cavity, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, kidney, bladder, and cervix, and acute myeloid leukemia. In New York State, annual smoking related health care costs and lost productivity in New York total $14.2 billion and the annual health care expenditure in the State directly caused by tobacco use amounts to $8.17 billion. The economic burden extends to smokers, who are now paying over $11 per pack. Given that the smoking prevalence is highest among those with the lowest incomes, there is an even more compelling reason to implement strategies to ensure that smoking cessation resources reach this population. These concerns are reflected in the State’s most recent Prevention Agenda data, which identifies smoking as the leading “modifiable factor” responsible for nearly 28,000 deaths in NY State a year. 13 In response to the heavy toll of tobacco use, New York State and New York City have implemented aggressive tobacco control agendas. Included in this comprehensive package of policies and programs are efforts to increase access to evidence based treatment for smokers and an emphasis on developing strategies to reduce the toll of secondhand smoke exposure, particularly among children. Research underscores the urgent need to address smoking in housing in New York City. Even among children who did not live with someone who smoked in the home, cotinine levels (a measure of exposure to secondhand smoke) of children living in apartments were higher than among those living in detached houses. Living in multi unit housing is placing many children at risk of secondhand smoke related health consequences. New York City has achieved remarkable reductions in smoking prevalence, from 21. in 2002 to 13. in 2017. But the rates of reduction across populations have been uneven and income related and racial and ethnic disparities persist. Despite the high cost of cigarettes, the smoking prevalence among low income New Yorkers is . Of particular concern is the smoking rate among Asian/Pacific Islander men in NYC (). Among Chinese men in particular, the rate is even higher which, by contrast with other populations, is higher now than it was in 2002. The NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) now recognizes smoking among Asian American men as a health disparity. On June 28, 2017, in collaboration with our City wide Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative (described below), DOHMH released an Epi Data Brief on the leading causes of death among Chinese New Yorkers. Commissioner Dr. Mary T. Bassett noted that although heart disease is the leading cause of death for New Yorkers overall, cancer has been the leading cause of death among for Chinese New Yorkers, reflecting the persistently high rates of smoking among Asian American men. In response, the DOHMH is launching an Asian language public awareness campaign. The NYULH Community Service Plan and the Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative will continue to play a key role in disseminating this information. 14 Not surprisingly, in the Lower East Side/Chinatown and Sunset Park, communities with large and relatively poor Asian populations, smoking continues to be a top health concern among our community partners. For example, in the Manhattan Community Board 3 Need Statement for 2020, the Board recognizes the smoking disparity for Chinese American men and calls on the City to build on its anti tobacco campaign “by funding smoking cessation programs with counseling and nicotine replacement therapy aimed at people from countries/regions without strong tobacco control policies and programs." Smoking was also rated as a top health concern by Red Hook community members. One in five adults who live in NYC public housing smoke. With the implementation of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s new smoke free public housing policy, there is a growing demand for information and access to services to help support public housing residents quit or reduce their dependence on tobacco. Given the large public housing developments in Red Hook and on the Lower East Side, community partners are interested in building their capacity to meet this need. → Needs and Assets: addressing the intersection of health and housing In recent years, there has been a growing recognition of the intersection of housing and health. Indeed, the State Prevention Agenda 2019 2024 cites access to safe housing as a key determinant of well being. A recent report by the American Hospital Association entitled Housing and the Role of Hospitals, succinctly summarizes the association between housing instability and poor health and increased health care utilization: Understanding needs and barriers for Chinese American smokers: In order to