Hewitt, who also leads Perlmutter’s robotic pancreatic surgery program—the highest-volume practice of its kind in the city. “Our adoption of histotripsy reflects our central mission: to improve outcomes, and to optimize the overall experience for the patient.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor in the Department of Surgery. His research interests focus on improving outcomes in surgical oncology. Vascular and Interventional Radiology Mikhail Silk, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Radiology. His research centers on improving diagnosis and treatment of hepatobiliary cancers. Latest in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma In a large study, both methods showed similar efficacy—with an edge for robotics in LOS and complications. Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Study shows minimally invasive surgery has clear benefits in morbidity, mortality, and cost. Our Orthopedic Areas of Expertise we know that when it comes to orthopedic health, everyone is unique. That’s why we tailor our programs, services, and centers to match our focused expertise with your own, unique orthopedic health needs. Brachial Plexus Care Concussion, Fractures, and Trauma Dance Injuries Hand Care Joint Care Limb Salvage and Reconstruction Orthopedic Centers and Hospitals NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center NYU Langone Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center Orthopedic Care for Children Regenerative Care Orthobiologics and Regenerative Medicine Physical and Occupational Therapy Physical Medicine Services Second Opinion Surgical Specialties Reconstructive Surgery Thank you for your interest in contacting NYU Langone Health. We look forward to addressing your question or concern. Please use one of the resources below to get more information, based on the nature of your inquiry. 646-929-7870 For help finding a doctor, please call 646-929-7875 search for a specific doctor . If you’re trying to reach a specific location, please browse our list of locations for direct contact information. 646-929-7880 Patient Relations at 646-929-7885 Medical Education Information 646-929-7890 admissions@med.nyu.edu Vilcek Institute of Graduate Biomedical Sciences (MD/PhD program) 212-263-5648 vilcek-info@nyulangone.org Residency and Fellowship Programs 646-929-7900 Continuing Medical Education (CME) 646-929-7905 Office of Alumni Relations 646-929-7910 alumni@med.nyu.edu Media Information Office of Communications and Marketing Fundraising Information 646-929-7955 Career Opportunities Human Resources 212-404-3618 (Recruitment and staffing) 800-367-5690 or theworknumber.com (Employment verification; our employer code is 13600) Faculty Group Practice NYU Langone’s Faculty Group Practice (FGP) members are a group of more than 3,000 doctors employed by NYU Langone. Other doctors on our website may be affiliated with NYU Langone, but be in private practice. The FGP office provides support to FGP practices throughout the tri-state area to keep them running smoothly for patients, physicians, and office administrators. Real Estate Development and Facilities askRED+F@nyulangone.org How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health adult neurology residency program , one of the country’s largest, is expanding to meet growing demand. In the next recruitment cycle, the program anticipates accepting 13 residents to train in Manhattan, 5 in Brooklyn, and 3 on Long Island Here, program director Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD discusses the distinctive program features—shaped by NYU Langone’s location and approach to patient care—that position it as a top choice for neurologists-in-training. She also details how the program’s innovative curriculum prepares trainees for telehealth, leadership, and other essential skills. The Lure of Diverse Cases and Cutting-Edge Tech Dr. Kurzweil, NYU Langone’s adult neurology residency program attracts trainees from across the globe. What stands out about the program? Dr. Kurzweil: One big draw is the diversity—of New York City’s population and of the unparalleled diversity of cases we see, from simple to highly complex neurological disorders. Our residents regularly encounter the kind of “unicorn” cases that a practicing neurologist might never see in their career, while also gaining exposure to our subspecialty programs, such as neurosurgical and stroke care. Another draw is our institutional knowledge and innovative approach to care. Put simply, the same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training. “The same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest research and diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training.” Arielle Kurzweil, MD By nature of our approach, our residents develop familiarity with advanced tools such as neuromodulation and high intensity focused ultrasound for movement disorders, and transcranial direct current stimulation for multiple sclerosis. They also observe procedures that are unique to NYU Langone, such as complex epilepsy surgeries through our —one of the country’s largest centers for focused epilepsy care. Exploring Unique Interests The program also offers electives and specific ‘tracks’ to residents interested in focusing their training. Can you tell us about those? For residents with a particular interest in global health or who just want to understand the specialty in a global context, we offer specialty training through the Division of Global Health . Two residents per year accompany division director Jaydeep M. Bhatt, MD , to resource-constrained countries such as Ghana and Uganda. Since neurology is a rare specialty in those areas, the residents gain the experience of both providing patient care with limited resources and educating fellow clinicians to do the same. Additionally, we offer both an education and a research track, with one resident per class in each track. In the education track, a resident interested in a career that incorporates medical education can further develop their teaching skills and work on an education-related project with a mentor. In the new research track, a resident takes on research more expansively, with dedicated time and mentoring to develop a project and scholarly publication. All of our trainees gain exposure to applied research through our patient-oriented research curriculum. That curriculum is integrated into our training throughout the year, providing residents with an overview of the basic principles of neurology research—and how they apply to clinical care. Practicing the Science—and Art—of Patient Care Neurologic disease can present with a wide range of symptoms, and many rare diseases fall within the specialty as well. How do you prepare residents to pinpoint a diagnosis and then manage often-complex cases? The multidisciplinary nature of NYU Langone yields the type of collaboration that is often needed to reach a diagnosis, particularly in rare or unsolved cases, and we come together quarterly to discuss those cases. We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills. “We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills.” New York Simulation Center for the Health Sciences (NYSIM) is a valuable resource that helps our residents develop these communication skills, ensuring they are well prepared for both the science and art of neurology practice. In addition to learning to run stroke codes or perform lumbar punctures in the center, they get to practice patient encounters and interactions with nurses and emergency department doctors. For example, residents interact with an actor playing the role of a patient whose workup indicates amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In a live simulation, a resident experiences what it’s like to deliver that difficult diagnosis and discuss next steps, refining their delivery as needed to ensure sensitivity and compassion along with medical accuracy. The need for these complementary skills has also grown with the increased use of telemedicine, particularly since the pandemic. Our teleneurology training guides residents through the nuances of a virtual exam, which they also practice through simulation center sessions. Fostering a Supportive Environment What about the residents themselves—what initiatives help to make the experience of training at NYU Langone resident-centric? It’s important to us that residents to feel supported and engaged throughout their training here. Our chief resident leadership curriculum supports residents transitioning to chief resident roles. These residents work alongside program leadership to manage various aspects of the program, and they serve as role models for junior trainees. The one-day curriculum for rising chief residents includes discussion of key leadership topics, followed by a simulation activity in which residents navigate challenging hypothetical situations with junior trainees and faculty. We were asked to present on this unique program at the American Academy of Neurology’s annual meeting earlier this year. We also take a deliberate approach to mentorship, fostering connections between faculty and residents, as well as between senior and junior residents. It’s part of our proactive approach to enhance the residency experience and prevent burnout. We even have a simulation on this topic, in which residents are challenged to identify signs of burnout in colleagues What is one of the most important lessons you’ve learned as program director? Overall, in my eight years as program director, I have learned that running a training program is a real team effort. Recruiting team-oriented trainees—and cultivating that team spirit—is crucial to success. Importantly, we work to balance inpatient and outpatient neurology training and optimize trainee education, emphasizing flexibility and openness to feedback and change. As a result, residents who graduate from our program tend to embody that sense of openness and adaptability as they move forward into their careers. Neurology, Neuromuscular Medicine Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency. Her research interests include medical education and innovations in medical training, with an emphasis on utilizing simulation and teleneurology. Latest in Neurology Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Mary Pat Gallagher, MD. Source: Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone is a leader in diabetes care nationwide. One of 33 pediatric programs in the T1D Exchange Quality Improvement Collaborative , the center’s success in achieving excellent glycemic outcomes is the result of deliberate planning, hard work, and collaboration. Here, pediatric endocrinologist and center director , who is also director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes , discusses the distinctive features—shaped by Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital child- and family-centered approach to care—that position it as a top choice and model for pediatric diabetes management. You’ve led the Pediatric Diabetes Center since 2016. What keeps you motivated today? Dr. Gallagher: Managing diabetes in children and adolescents presents unique challenges compared with adults. Things like family dynamics, developmental stages, self-care skills, and supervision in educational environments are among the unique factors that must be considered. What keeps me going after more than two decades of practice is helping patients and families navigate the complexities of care. “What I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team.” Along with that, what I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team. We have a unique collaboration with our KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, which provides on-site mental health services within the center. We want to provide families with support and education as part of their care in a field that is rapidly changing. That’s why the quest to improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. The center has achieved outstanding glycemic outcomes for patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D). What actions are driving these results? First and foremost, we strongly support the use of the latest diabetes technology. We recommend that all of our patients with T1D use a continuous glucose monitoring device and hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. In New York State, public insurance has covered diabetes devices for years We are in a fortunate position to have this benefit, unlike many other states. Measure T1D Collaborative Goal Outcome Measures HbA1c < 7% 25% 44% Median HbA1c <8 % 7.3% Time in Range     >70% >25% 34% Process Measures CGM use >70% 94% Pump Use >65% 85% The T1D Collaborative set specific goals for outcomes and process measures. The performance metrics for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital are listed in the far-right column, with all four measures achieved. Under our protocols, patients are placed on sensors right after diagnosis. Within six weeks of diagnosis, most patients will be using a hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. By making the use of technology standard, we have been able to help families achieve excellent glycemic outcomes. There is still ample opportunity to enhance patient outcomes. My expectation is that outcome measures will continue to improve as we develop new interventions and refine technologies, in addition to sharing best practices with each other through efforts like the T1D Collaborative. Education and patient support are also central to the center’s success. Can you tell us about these efforts? Our education and training start at the time of diagnosis and continue over the course of our relationship with the person with diabetes. The goal is to equip patients and their families with the necessary self-management skills. Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system. We also focus on identifying and addressing differences in learning styles and neurocognitive challenges. This allows us to modify education and management tools based on the needs of each individual. “Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system.” We also have the Helping Schools Care for Children with Type 1 Diabetes program, which equips school nurses and staff with the knowledge and training they need to support students with T1D. Our certified diabetes care and education specialists visit our patients’ schools to deliver this crucial education, ensuring children and adolescents with T1D can succeed during the school day. To date, the team has provided education and support for over 280 schools and daycare facilities throughout New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. Last, we aim to be easily accessible to patients and their families, offering various communication channels to reach us, including text messaging during daytime hours. Research indicates that providing accessible care and timely responses to questions enhances a patient’s self-efficacy and ability to manage their condition independently. Regarding new interventions, the Pediatric Diabetes Center is among the few pediatric centers nationwide offering teplizumab. What has the center’s experience been in treating patients with this drug? FDA recently approved teplizumab , the first disease-modifying treatment for T1D—it’s truly a milestone in both research and clinical practice. While it’s not a cure, the CD3-directed antibody was shown to delay progression to stage 3 T1D in both adults and children age 8 years and older who had stage 2 preclinical T1D—defined as two positive antibodies and dysglycemia. The antibody is infused once daily for 14 consecutive days. Close supervision is required for people receiving this therapy, and given the specifics around dosing and administration, not all centers possess the specialized expertise to offer the treatment. Patients have been referred to us by many hospitals in the local area. Side effects are usually mild but can be significant, and consist of cytokine release syndrome, low white blood cell counts, and liver enzyme elevations. Anecdotally, most patients who have received the therapy seem to have tolerated it well. Finally, what does the open discussion and support from the T1D Collaborative mean to you and your peers? We are truly grateful for the continued support of the collaborative. From every part of the country, participating clinics are focused on one thing—improving the quality of life and overall health of youth and adults living with T1D. In a brief span of time, the learning collaborative has grown tremendously and is proving its ability to positively impact the lives of people living with diabetes. Mary Pat Gallagher, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics, director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, and director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center. Her research and clinical interests center on children and adolescents with diabetes. To refer a patient, browse our Latest in Diabetes & Endocrinology Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening A screening protocol deployed in sleep centers boosts the detection of primary aldosteronism. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries A recent study by researchers at NYU Langone Health provides some of the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 can directly infect coronary tissue, including coronary immune cells. Their findings, published in Nature Cardiovascular Research , shed mechanistic insight into how COVID-19 infection contributes to elevated risk of ischemic cardiac events in individuals with atherosclerosis. “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events.” Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events,” says study senior author and cardiologist COVID-19 and Cardiac Risk SARS-CoV-2 infection increases the risk of acute myocardial infarction and stroke for up to a year after the initial infection. Cytokine storms—an extreme inflammatory response arising from infection—are presumed to be a factor. But what happens at the cellular level in the vasculature? The new study was designed to uncover any direct impacts on the coronary vasculature, and researchers hypothesized that immune cells, such as macrophages, could be involved. Artificial Intelligence Amps Up Viral Detection Their analysis detected the virus within the arteries of eight men and women with a history of atherosclerosis who had died of COVID-19. The authors trained a neural network artificial intelligence program to measure viral RNA levels, specifically in cells infiltrating the arterial wall. In addition to infecting arterial tissue, viral RNA was also detected in infiltrating macrophages. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19.” Viral replication levels were highest in samples classified as “pathological intimal thickening with macrophage infiltration”—believed to be the precursor phase to atherosclerotic plaque formation Preferential Infection of Foam Cells Not all macrophages appear to be equally susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study findings revealed that macrophages rich in engulfed fat, called foam cells, were infected more frequently and for longer periods than typical macrophages. According to the researchers, this suggests that the coronavirus may persist more easily in people with large amounts of plaque buildup in their arteries, partly explaining why those with atherosclerosis are more susceptible to COVID-19. Provoking an Inflammatory Response The experiments showed that in response to infection, the macrophages release cytokines known to promote a chronic immune response. The researchers note that two identified cytokines, interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6, are tied to heart attacks. This heightened state of inflammation may facilitate the formation and rupture of arterial plaques, impeding blood flow, explains Dr. Giannarelli. Understanding of Long COVID “These results shed light on a possible connection between preexisting heart issues and long COVID symptoms,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “It appears that the immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” “The immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” As a result, the research team next plans to explore more closely this potential link between the coronavirus’s behavior during atherosclerosis and long COVID, whose symptoms may include heart palpitations, chest pain, and fatigue. Dr. Giannarelli adds that because the current study analyzed tissue infected with viral strains that spread throughout New York City early in the pandemic, the authors are investigating any differences after exposure to newer variants and the protective effects of vaccination. Cardiology, Pathology Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and pathology. Her research interests include immune mechanisms of atherosclerosis and treatment of atherosclerosis. 646-987-3538 Latest in Cardiology NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health experts who are joining colleagues in Chicago, November 16 to 18. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide First-of-its-kind meta-analysis finds no evidence of heightened risk in patients treated for weight loss or diabetes management. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Aaron M. Johnson, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health Treatment decisions for voice disorders are largely based on either-or thinking: Is the problem due to injury to the outer vibratory layers of the mucosa or dysfunction of the underlying muscle? But , co-director of NYU Langone’s , suspects complex interactions between the mucosa and muscle may be in play that could inform new targeted therapies. “What we’re proposing is that there are mechanistic reactions of the muscle itself in response to chronic phonotrauma of the outer vibratory layers that may lead to functional deficits,” Dr. Johnson says. “So even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper, problem.” “What we’re proposing is that … even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper problem.” To test this hypothesis and others, Dr. Johnson was recently awarded a prestigious five-year grant of $3.2 million from the NIH When Phonotrauma Persists Injuries to the vocal folds may occur the morning after a night of cheering at a concert, baseball game, or other event, when people often wake up with a sore throat and raspy voice. “All of us experience what we call phonotrauma, which is when we use our voice with a lot of intensity or over a long period of time,” Dr. Johnson explains. In many cases, the symptoms of phonotrauma resolve with rest. “The fact that we don’t have voice disorders all the time is amazing to me,” Dr. Johnson says, “given our vocal folds collide with each other hundreds of thousands of times each day.” However, repeated phonotrauma can lead to phonotraumatic dysphonia, a specific voice disorder that causes an abnormal or hoarse voice. The disorder often affects those who rely heavily on their voice for their profession, such as teachers, singers, lawyers, and politicians. If left unaddressed, phonotraumatic dysphonia can further progress into vocal hyperfunction, which involves the dysfunction and tensing of the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle, the primary muscle of the vocal fold, as well as the surrounding musculature in the neck. Vocal hyperfunction has long been viewed as a natural behavioral response to phonotrauma. “But it can also exacerbate the problem,” Dr. Johnson says, “and create a vicious cycle of people straining more, which causes more phonotrauma, which creates more vocal hyperfunction.” Mucosa–Muscle Interactions To look more closely at a bidirectional relationship between the mucosal tissue and muscle layers of the vocal fold, Dr. Johnson is collaborating with Ryan Branski, PhD , vice chair of research for otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. The team’s initial in vitro cell–cell interaction studies focused on what might happen when fibroblasts from the mucosa and myoblasts from the muscle commingle. Published in the Annals of Otology, Rhinology & Laryngology their findings revealed that fibroblasts have a largely negative impact on myoblasts, potentially leading to a delay in the growth and regeneration of muscle. Conversely, the impact of myoblasts on fibroblasts was positive. “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the laryngeal muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa,” Dr. Johnson says. “On the other hand, when there is muscle dysfunction, that may lead to a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa.” To clarify the mechanisms involved and identify potential therapeutic targets, the team aims to conduct follow-up studies characterizing unique fibroblast–myoblast signals and their interaction with inflammatory cells from the vocal folds. Elsewhere in the body, researchers have long known that muscle, such as skeletal muscle, is involved in an inflammatory response to injury. But Dr. Johnson says that “really nobody, up until our work, has looked at the response of laryngeal muscle to similar types of injury elicited by phonotrauma.” A Focus on Vocal Trauma Depth In another line of experiments, the team aims to compare how the thyroarytenoid muscle responds to both shallow vocal fold injuries and deep injuries that extend into the thyroarytenoid muscle itself. For this work, he and colleagues are leveraging Dr. Johnson’s experience with a unique behavioral model, rodent vocalizations Rats communicate via whistles in the ultrasonic range. The vocalizations, which resemble sped-up birdcalls, don’t rely on vibrating vocal folds but rather an air jet that resonates through a hole to create whistling noises. Although not a perfect approximation, the whistling uses the same muscles as human vocalizations, making the system a useful model for looking at neuromuscular changes within the larynx. Three rat ultrasonic vocalizations recorded in Dr. Johnson’s lab, combined and slowed down to a range audible to humans. Source: NYU Langone Health In their rat model, the researchers create a superficial injury to the outer vibratory layers of the vocal folds to approximate phonotrauma in humans. A second, deeper injury extends into the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle. The researchers then record the rodents’ vocalizations before and at multiple points after each type of injury to see how depth of injury affects recovery of the vocalizations. The team suspects that in both conditions, the frequency complexity of the vocalizations will be reduced because of changes in the muscle. They will confirm their vocalization findings with direct ex vivo measurements of the contractile properties of the thyroarytenoid muscle. Additionally, the researchers plan to compile and compare the full proteome of the thyroarytenoid muscle in both healthy and injured states. In a previous proteomic characterization of laryngeal muscles from rats , Dr. Johnson and collaborators analyzed the relative abundance of roughly 1,000 proteins, demonstrating how the same technique could be applied to do a deeper dive into the extent and nature of muscle changes after vocal trauma. “Collectively, these studies will help us understand the complex interplay between vocal fold mucosal injuries and the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle and hopefully lead to improved diagnosis and treatment of voice disorders,” says Dr. Johnson. Speech Pathology, Otolaryngology, Laryngology & Voice Aaron M. Johnson, PhD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine who works as a clinical speech–language pathologist. He is co-director of the Voice Center and conducts research on phonotrauma, vocal training, and aging on the muscles of the larynx. Latest in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results BB-301 is the first experimental gene therapy for OPMD to reach clinical trials. The first two patients treated exhibit improved symptoms. Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Referral Notes: The Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS) is the first tool to assess platelet reactivity using genetic signatures. In one study to validate the tool, PRESS was higher in women who had a heart attack than those with stable heart disease. In another study, patients with atherosclerosis and a PRESS above the median were 90 percent more likely to experience a major cardiovascular event. The PRESS tool could enable more personalized treatment decisions, such as prescribing anti-platelet therapies like aspirin, based on individual platelet function. Cardiologists have long known that increased platelet reactivity is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, yet limited tools exist to identify individuals with a hyperreactive platelet phenotype. In a study recently published in Nature Communications , researchers at NYU Langone Health developed the first transcriptome-based test designed to do just that. The tool, dubbed the Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS), uses the genetic signature of a patient’s platelets to assess reactivity, making it far more precise and less labor-intensive than conventional aggregometry techniques. “Our results demonstrate that this scoring system can circumvent aggregometry or other platelet activity measurements to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events,” says lead author Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, director of the . “It can be used successfully across populations, both in patients at risk of heart attacks and in healthy people whose future risk would otherwise remain unknown.” Aggregometry Challenges Although aggregometry is commonly used to detect insufficiently reactive (dysfunctional) platelets, routine measurement of platelet hyperreactivity has been infeasible to date. Aggregometry tests were not originally designed for that purpose, and until recently they lacked the sensitivity to determine how much reactivity was too much. Over the past decade, the field has shifted toward a more calibrated method: exposing platelets to a tiny dose of epinephrine, which weakly encourages aggregation. Experts have settled on 60 percent aggregation in a platelet sample at 0.4 μM (micromoles) of epinephrine as the threshold over which platelets are designated as hyperreactive. Still, the correlation between this metric and cardiovascular events remains uncertain—and a standard clinical test for platelet hyperreactivity remains elusive. Both deficiencies persist, in part, because results delivered by even the most sophisticated aggregometry techniques often vary from lab to lab. “This scoring system can circumvent aggregometry to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events” Jeffrey S. Berger, MD To overcome the latter obstacle, a team led by Dr. Berger and Tessa J. Barrett, PhD , conceived of a “liquid biopsy”—a test based on the platelets’ gene expression. “We thought this approach would be more reproducible than subjecting platelets to chemical exposure in a test tube,” Dr. Barrett explains. Test Validation In the current study, Dr. Berger’s team set out to answer three questions: whether patients whose platelets met the existing definition for hyperreactivity were, in fact, at greater risk for cardiovascular events; whether their platelets’ genetic signature could be used as a biomarker of hyperreactivity; and whether the patients’ degree of cardiovascular risk could be assessed using such a marker. The researchers began by using epinephrine-induced aggregometry to track the impact of platelet activity status on major adverse cardiovascular and limb events (MACLE) in patients with peripheral artery disease. MACLE was measured in this group of high-risk patients after they underwent lower extremity revascularization. Among 254 participants whose platelet aggregation was measured with 0.4 μM of epinephrine, 17.5 percent showed hyperreactive platelets. That cohort, the team found, had more than double the incidence of MACLE within 30 days after lower extremity revascularization than patients without hyperreactivity. Next, the team used RNA sequencing to search for genetic differences associated with hyperreactivity in platelet material collected from 129 of the patients. They found that 451 transcripts were significantly correlated with percent aggregation to epinephrine. The researchers designed the PRESS scoring system based on these results, then confirmed its accuracy by checking it against platelet aggregation tests. To further validate PRESS, the team explored the link between the score and cardiovascular risk in other patient groups. Among these was the Heart Attack Research Program, which enrolled women undergoing coronary angiography. In this group, PRESS was found to be higher in those who had a heart attack than in those with stable coronary artery disease. Among patients with lower extremity atherosclerosis followed for an average of 18 months, patients with PRESS above the median score were 90 percent more likely to have a major cardiovascular event than those below it. PRESS Forward Besides providing a potentially transformative method for assessing thrombosis-related cardiovascular risk, the PRESS test could help patients and physicians make better-informed decisions on treatment. One example is the question of whether an individual should take aspirin, which counters clotting but increases the risk of bleeding. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” “Physicians currently prescribe this medication based on available risk factors, including high cholesterol or high blood pressure, which are not directly related to platelet function,” says Dr. Berger. “PRESS promises to help physicians tailor antiplatelet treatment to the people most likely to benefit: those with platelet hyperreactivity.” “A platelet-based test would help us optimize therapeutic approaches to fit each patient’s needs,” adds Dr. Barrett. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” Tessa J. Barrett, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and pathology. Her research centers on the interaction between myeloid cells and platelets, using in vivo models of thromboinflammation coupled with multiomic phenotyping to investigate how this axis contributes to cardiovascular disease. Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and surgery and director of the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. His research focuses on discovering novel mechanisms of heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, and stroke. He is particularly interested in the etiology of unexplained thromboembolic disease. Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine Although intravenous and nasally administered forms of ketamine and esketamine have rapid-acting efficacy for major depressive disorder (MDD), with intranasal esketamine being FDA-approved for this indication, their hemodynamic and psychotomimetic properties require a physician’s supervision, limiting their utility. Recently, the FDA approved a novel type of antidepressant—one that mimics ketamine’s mechanism of action, but without its challenging side effects. Auvelity is the first oral antidepressant that does not primarily target the monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine. Instead, like ketamine, it targets the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which regulate glutamate. “[With this medication], patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Dan Iosifescu, MD According to , a professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health who co-led clinical trials for Auvelity, the new drug—a combination of dextromethorphan and bupropion—has several advantages. “It can alleviate symptoms more quickly than other oral antidepressants,” says Dr. Iosifescu. “It also has a practical advantage over ketamine in that patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Previously, Dr. Iosifescu played key roles in the development of ketamine and esketamine as therapies for treatment-resistant MDD, overseeing a research program that produced several pivotal studies. These successful trials, in turn, laid the groundwork for Auvelity. Laying the Groundwork In their efforts to identify an oral alternative to ketamine that would not require stringent monitoring, Dr. Iosifescu and his team focused on dextromethorphan—a strong NMDA receptor inhibitor commonly used in cough medications. Because dextromethorphan is metabolized too swiftly to function as an antidepressant on its own, it would have to be combined with a compound that could slow that process. One candidate was quinidine, a stereoisomer of quinine, which blocks the enzyme CYP2D6. Dr. Iosifescu and colleagues first conducted an open-label trial of Nuedexta, a combination of dextromethorphan and quinidine used to treat pseudobulbar affect. In a paper published in 2017 , they reported that many patients with treatment-resistant MDD experienced significant improvements in mood. Soon afterward, Dr. Iosifescu was approached by representatives of Axsome Therapeutics, who were also investigating dextromethorphan’s potential as an antidepressant. The company asked him to help lead their trials of an experimental drug (later named Auvelity) that paired the chemical with bupropion, a norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor that also blocks CYP2D6. A Pair of Key Studies The FDA’s decision to approve Auvelity was based on two large studies. The first, with Dr. Iosifescu as lead author, was Journal of Clinical Psychiatry . In a multicenter phase 3 trial, 327 adults with MDD were randomized to either Auvelity or a placebo. After 6 weeks, Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores fell by an average of 16 points in treated patients, compared with 12 points in those taking the placebo. Nearly 40 percent of those taking Auvelity achieved remission, versus 17 percent with placebo. The second study, with Dr. Iosifescu as senior author, appeared in the American Journal of Psychiatry . It involved 97 adults with MDD who received either Auvelity or bupropion alone. At the 6-week mark, patients taking Auvelity showed a 14-point drop in MADRS scores, compared with 9 points for those on bupropion. Among the Auvelity group, 47 percent achieved remission, versus 16 percent of the bupropion group. In both studies, Auvelity was superior to the comparator after only 1 or 2 weeks, suggesting a more rapid onset of efficacy compared to other antidepressants. “These results showed conclusively that dextromethorphan, rather than bupropion, is the main driver of Auvelity’s efficacy,” Dr. Iosifescu explains. In both studies, Auvelity exhibited a side effect profile comparable to other oral antidepressants, with no indication of metabolic problems or increased sexual dysfunction. Next Steps Auvelity is now being prescribed as an alternative or supplemental treatment for patients whose symptoms are not adequately addressed by other antidepressants. Dr. Iosifescu suggests that it should also be studied as a maintenance medication for people who improved after receiving ketamine treatment as an emergency intervention. “In theory,” he says, “those patients could benefit from taking this drug regularly, or as a rescue medication if they suffer a relapse.” Dr. Iosifescu is a member of the advisory board of Axsome Therapeutics, manufacturer of Auvelity. He has received consulting honoraria from Axsome, which sponsored the trials spotlighted in this article. Adult Psychiatry Dan Iosifescu, MD, is a professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His research interests center on the development of novel treatments for severe mood and anxiety disorders. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Elizabeth Comen, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in breast cancer treatment that have significantly extended survival, much knowledge and research is still needed to adequately address the long-term impact of treatment and optimize women’s overall health. According to Elizabeth Comen, MD , newly appointed to the , those underaddressed areas are the product of a medical system that has historically overlooked the needs of women and minorities. Dr. Comen joins NYU Langone Health to build multidisciplinary partnerships to enhance women’s health—in and beyond cancer care. An esteemed physician and author of the recently published All in Her Head, which explores the history of women’s healthcare, Dr. Comen discusses how her research and advocacy for women’s health equity informs her practice as a breast cancer oncologist. The Dismissal of Women in Healthcare Dr. Comen , your research and recent book focus on inequities in women’s healthcare—specifically, the ways in which our healthcare system is designed to overlook or dismiss the medical needs of women. What led you to this research area? Dr. Comen: My deep interest in the history of medicine traces back to my undergraduate education, when I majored in the history of science; I was fascinated by how scientific discovery and medicine are intertwined with the fabric of society, culture, and religion. Later, as a breast oncologist, I began to hear heartbreaking stories of women dismissed or diminished within the medical system. For example, I saw a young woman whose diagnosis was delayed despite her concerns over a breast mass; she’d been told it couldn’t be cancer because she was “too young.” Countless patients have also expressed concerns about their sexual health going unaddressed or being brushed aside in the context of cancer treatment. Stories like these motivated me to explore the complex legacy of women’s healthcare, and how our medical system has historically overlooked the unique experiences and needs of women. “Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—doctors across specialties—take care of women.” Women are from head to toe different from men, from our biology to our experience of disease. Yet beyond gynecology, the rest of medicine has been built around the 70-kilogram White male. Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—gastroenterologists, cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists, doctors across specialties—take care of women. A Legacy of Misogyny How can medicine better meet the healthcare needs of women? It begins with simply recognizing the legacy of misogyny in women’s healthcare and the ways it manifests in the patient experience. Female patients are often told their fatigue is due to being a new mother, their pain is in their head, or that it’s “just” depression or anxiety. When in reality these patients may be suffering from treatable medical conditions, compounded by the dismissal or neglect they face from their doctors. With that recognition, there is an opportunity not only to change how we as clinicians approach the care of women but also to advance medical education and research by looking more closely at conditions or symptoms that we may be dismissing too frequently. The good news is, there is a groundswell of public support to advocate for the rights of women as full participants in their own care. Patient Engagement on a Personal Level How do some of these ideas take shape in the care you deliver as a breast oncologist? The art of being an oncologist is in recognizing that no two biological processes exist in a patient in the same way. Taking care of women in this context requires understanding people individually, at a human level. It means thinking about their cancer not only in terms of survival, but also in terms of what it truly means to live. Understanding patients’ fears, joys, and aspirations is essential to providing holistic care. I engage with patients on a personal level, exploring how each patient finds joy and what she is looking forward to. For example, perhaps there is a family wedding she wants to attend and wishes to avoid the heavy side effects of chemotherapy during that time. “When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most.” When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most to her in life. Enhancing Quality of Life What advancements do you celebrate in current breast cancer treatment approaches, and what do you think should be prioritized going forward? Breast cancer is an extraordinary example of a condition where we have greatly improved survival outcomes in both localized and metastatic disease, providing better, less toxic treatments. With that improved survival, we have an opportunity to help women thrive long after treatment, by prioritizing their overall health. Historically, the system has focused on curing women of their breast cancer but ignored other elements of their posttreatment wellbeing, such as sexual health, which is incredibly important. I’m energized in thinking about how we will not only continue to extend patients’ lives, but also improve the quality of their lives. Building Bridges Toward Equitable Treatment What do you hope to achieve at NYU Langone’s Perlmutter Cancer Center, both in research and in clinical care? If optimal cancer care means looking at the whole patient rather than a fragmented group of systems, NYU Langone—which prioritizes holistic care and interdisciplinary collaboration—is an optimal place to practice medicine. I am looking forward to collaborating with Perlmutter Canter Center’s incredible researchers, scientists, and clinicians to continue to bridge specialties as we consider how to care for the whole patient over time. Additionally, we have an opportunity to truly improve equity in cancer care. When you consider that Black women are 40 percent more likely to die from breast cancer, in large part due to access to resources, you begin to understand the intersectionality of misogyny, racism, and bias in medicine. With NYU Langone’s footprint both in and beyond New York City, we have an opportunity to meaningfully address disparities in breast cancer outcomes in novel and nimble ways. Elizabeth Comen, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and in the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her clinical practice focuses on breast cancer oncology and women’s health. Latest in Cancer ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Each year, first-of-their-kind procedures are performed by surgical teams at the . Notable cases include using a femoral artery homograft in a modified Blalock-Thomas-Taussig shunt (BTTS) , applying a novel approach to the Norwood operation for right aortic arch in hypoplastic left heart syndrome, and retaining a patent ductus arteriosus in a newborn to bridge time to heart transplant. Here, cardiothoracic surgeon , reflects on a notable complex case and shares his insights from taking risks to advance patient care. Of the many novel procedures that you’ve been involved in, which one stands out as being particularly memorable? Dr. Kumar: One case that comes to mind is that of a 22-year-old patient with stenosis of a single coronary artery following an arterial switch procedure as an infant. We used a femoral artery homograft for that repair . Using the graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery. “Using the [femoral artery] graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery.” As an infant, the patient had undergone a switch procedure for dextro-transposition of the great arteries (d-TGA). He began to experience severe chest pain and shortness of breath during exercise as a teenager. Our determined he had developed a narrowing of his single coronary artery. The artery split into two, with the right coronary artery being patent and the left coronary severely narrowed at its origin. Dr. Ralph Mosca and I performed the surgery together. We knew going in that providing the patient with a durable repair was a top priority. The patient was a young and extremely active individual—he was an avid runner and biked nearly every day to work. We wanted him to be able to enjoy that lifestyle. During the surgery, we realized that unroofing was not an option due to his anatomy. Bypass grafting was also not a great option at such a young age. We elected to enlarge the left coronary artery using the femoral artery homograft. The procedure went smoothly, we got an excellent outcome, and the patient is doing great. [ Read more about the case here. ] Let’s discuss the process of innovating in surgery. How do you approach the inherent risks of performing a new procedure? We aren’t afraid to innovate. But at the same time, we are not reckless. We weigh the pros and cons of a new procedure and spend considerable time thinking about it before actually executing it. We think of every possible step where things could go wrong, and discuss how best to prevent those pitfalls or overcome them if they do happen. In doing so, we minimize errors and maximize outcomes. “Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery.” I would also say that we do not hesitate to take the expert advice of our adult cardiac surgery colleagues when the situation demands. We tap into their expertise on conditions more commonly seen in adults than children. That is one of the advantages of being attached to an adult hospital. We collaborate well here at NYU Langone, and I think that’s one of the standout reasons why we are able to surge forward with more confidence. What motivates you to keep pushing boundaries in pediatric heart surgery? As a comprehensive program, we want to be able to cater to all the medical needs of our patients. We do not want to turn away a patient who comes to our doorstep for lack of medical or surgical expertise. We strive for the success of every child, no matter what it takes. When this happens repeatedly, it fosters a culture of excellence in the group. Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery. At NYU Langone, the processes we’ve established over time are key to our successful outcomes. Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Cardiac Surgery, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of pediatric heart transplant. His clinical and research interests include complex congenital heart defects, arrhythmias, bradycardia, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in surgical techniques, most patients still experience some degree of inflammation after cataract surgery. Currently, corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the two most frequently prescribed anti-inflammatory medications, yet there is no established consensus on the optimal regimen, dosage, or treatment duration. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD , director of the Division of Cornea Services at NYU Langone Health and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology , in collaboration with colleagues at the Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute, have brought attention to this issue, calling for clear, evidence-based guidelines. “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery.” “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery,” says Dr. Prescott. “Studies to identify best practices and inform guidelines are needed to offer patients the best possible care.” Practice Patterns With limited data to inform best practices, Dr. Prescott and colleagues took on the challenge of capturing current prescribing patterns. “We developed a survey that was distributed to members of kera-net, a global online platform sponsored by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. Membership in kera-net is open to ophthalmologists specializing in corneas, external disease, and refractive surgery. They must also be board-certified in ophthalmology by the American Board of Ophthalmology or its equivalent in their home country. The survey consisted of 21 questions aimed at collecting data on participant demographics, the types of anti-inflammatory medication used, and how they were administered. Before being distributed, the questionnaire underwent review and evaluation by eight cataract surgeons. Results from the study were published in the Journal of Cataract & Refractive Surgery Variations on a Theme A total of 217 ophthalmologists responded to the survey. The majority of respondents were cornea subspecialists (79 percent), and most practiced in the United States (79 percent). The data on prescribing practices revealed significant variation, highlighting the lack of guidelines. Eyedrops According to the researchers, 94 percent of respondents prescribed eyedrops, making it the preferred postoperative treatment regimen. The most commonly prescribed class of eyedrops were corticosteroids (97 percent), followed by antibiotics (85 percent), NSAIDs (73 percent), and combination drops (19 percent). The three most frequent topical treatment regimens were corticosteroids and antibiotics and NSAIDS (53 percent), combination drops in one bottle (19 percent), and corticosteroids and antibiotics (16 percent). Intraocular/Periocular Options Intraocular/periocular options, including new sustained-release delivery systems, were less preferred, with only a slight majority (58.5 percent) of respondents using these options. Surgeons who preferred intraocular/periocular injections after cataract surgery most frequently injected only antibiotics (69 percent), followed by corticosteroids plus antibiotics (17 percent), single combination injection (8 percent), and corticosteroids alone (6 percent). Additionally, 58 percent of surgeons who used intraocular/periocular corticosteroids also recommended topical corticosteroids after cataract surgery, even though there is conflicting evidence regarding this practice. “Most surgeons preferred topical, generic options as the mainstay post–routine cataract surgical treatment,” says Dr. Prescott. “Few respondents had adopted the newer sustained-release corticosteroid formulations.” One possible reason for this could be the higher costs associated with sustained-release formulations, Dr. Prescott explains. Other contributing factors could be a hesitancy to adopt a new product and lack of long-term comparative studies showing superior efficacy to topicals, she adds. Awareness to Guidelines “Our findings will play a role in developing evidence-based guidelines endorsed by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. “We anticipate that this will be a topic of discussion at the Cornea Society meeting this fall.” In addition to pushing for guidelines, the researchers plan to conduct future surveys to track whether the use of injectables or sustained-release formulations changes over time. Furthermore, they intend to capture practice patterns from the broader population of ophthalmologists who perform cataract surgery. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Cornea Services and the Ophthalmology Residency Program and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in complex cataract and corneal surgery. Latest in Ophthalmology Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management The director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal diseases talks AMD, retinal tears, and more on Doctor Radio’s Brain and Eye Show. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Chicago from October 18 to 21. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research A leading uveitis expert discusses the need to rethink how the group of related autoimmune diseases are classified and treated. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis Screening programs are crucial for early detection of breast cancer, and mammography remains the medical imaging standard. Traditional mammography provides 2D images of breast tissue, but when combined with digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT), or “3D mammography”, it becomes more likely to detect cancer, especially in dense breast tissue. These 3D DBT images are built from series of two-dimensional images and are typically 10x or 100x their 2D counterparts in total size, which doubles interpretation time for radiologists. Artificial intelligence might be the solution. Researchers have been developing and using AI software that can routinely and efficiently evaluate the presence of cancer in large image datasets. AI software can also identify patterns and abnormalities that human radiologists might miss. In a recent study IEEE Transactions On Medical Imaging , researchers at NYU Langone Health have developed an AI-based 3D imaging model, called 3D-GMIC, that greatly improves computational efficiency without reducing accuracy. “We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD , a machine learning expert and senior researcher on the study, “In this AI model, we were trying to intuitively reproduce the way radiologists look at images. We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Performance Through Localization The 3D-GMIC model builds on a labeled dataset of breast images that took NYU Langone researchers years to compile. The model, developed by Jungkyu Park—a doctoral student in Dr. Geras’ group and first author of the study—and colleagues, was trained with image-level labels only. This included elements like whether or not a patient has cancer, as it is challenging to manually build a dataset of localized, labeled regions of cancer within large 3D images. 3D-GMIC learns to highlight the important regions, enabling it to learn from the data without localization labels. “It is actually pretty remarkable that you can localize these cancers without the localization labels,” says Dr. Geras. In terms of image analysis, DBT images are comprised of 70 slices on average, each containing a few million pixels. “With such large images, humans would never look at the entire image all at once,” says Geras. 3D-GMIC predicts the malignancy of lesions and localizes them in 3D images. First, it uses a global model to identify “patches” in the image that require more attention. “We then look at these patches with a local model, a higher capacity network,” says Dr. Geras. A visual representation of the 3D-GMIC workflow applied to a digital breast tomosynthesis. From left to right: The raw input image, an input image with the radiologist’s annotation, regions of interest for malignant lesions, visualization of the locations of cropped patches, and the two patches that are considered the most important by the model. By focusing on specific patches, researchers found that 3D-GMIC uses 78 to 90 percent less GPU memory, and 91 to 96 percent less computation than existing AI models. Despite this significant reduction, 3D-GMIC still showed comparable performance to earlier models, demonstrating that it successfully classified large 3D images. Finding Practical Utility A promising feature of this study is that the 3D-GMIC model generalized well to an external image dataset from Duke University Hospital. With AI-based medical imaging, it’s challenging to build models that work across different locations. “The fact that this is working across different sources of data shows this method is robust, which is an important condition for the practical utility of these models,” says Dr. Geras. “When we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care. We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” Laura Heacock, MD , an associate professor of radiology at NYU Langone, they are continuing to test the model in clinical settings. “We’ve found that when we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care,” says Dr. Heacock. “We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” This study is part of a long-term research project on AI for all modalities of breast imaging , including DBT, ultrasound, and MRI. These imaging modalities all “say something different about the tissue of the patient,” says Dr. Geras. Developing a neural network that could look at mammography, ultrasounds, and MRIs has the potential to lead to more accurate diagnoses. Machine Learning Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD, is an assistant professor of radiology and a Data Science Core Investigator. His research focuses on the use of artificial intelligence to advance breast cancer diagnosis and guide treatment. Laura Heacock, MD, is an associate professor of radiology and fellowship-trained breast imager. She specializes in researching and using artificial intelligence for breast imaging. We have locations throughout the New York City area, and in Florida. View All Locations (57) NYU Langone primary care doctors are focused on one goal: partnering with you to manage your personalized health needs. Your primary care doctor is the physician who you visit for most of your healthcare needs. A primary care doctor offers preventive care—such as an annual physical, immunizations, and screening for common conditions—and also helps diagnose and treat a wide range of common health concerns. There are different types of doctors that you can choose to be your primary care physician. This includes internal medicine and family medicine doctors, as well as obstetrician–gynecologists (OB/GYNs) for women. Pediatricians are primary care doctors for children. Our primary care doctors offer online appointment scheduling and same day doctor’s office visits close to where you live and work. We also provide wellness services, including programs to help you stop smoking, lose weight, and get the vaccinations you need to keep you healthy, whether here or while traveling abroad. We also help you manage medical conditions such as , referring you to specialists within NYU Langone when needed. Our primary care and internal medicine doctors provide wellness care and individualized treatment plans. Our online patient portal is called . It allows you to communicate via private messaging with your physician and clinical staff, as well as to view laboratory and test results and schedule appointments. Our Locations (57) NYU Langone Care on Demand—Upper East Side 1465 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 646-754-2300 332-210-7640 NYU Langone Care on Demand—West Village 540 Hudson Street, New York, NY, 10014 646-754-2200 332-210-7641 NYU Langone East Side Medical & Cardiovascular Associates 184 East 70th Street, Suite B1, New York, NY, 10021 212-737-2270 212-249-2054 NYU Langone Global Pediatrics 1559 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 212-585-3329 NYU Langone Internal Medicine Associates 222 East 41st Street, 18th and 19th Floors, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-8313 212-263-8995 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Washington Square 555 LaGuardia Place, New York, NY, 10012 212-263-2446 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Bensonhurst 2310 65th Street, Suite 2, Brooklyn, NY, 11204 718-998-0100 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Dyker Heights 7316 13th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11228 718-630-1404 NYU Langone Medical Associates—West Brighton 2857 West 8th Street, 2nd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11224 929-455-3060 929-455-3061 NYU Langone Slope Pediatrics 60 Eighth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11217 718-636-0019 718-636-3951 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bayside 44-01 Francis Lewis Boulevard, Suites L3B and L2A, Bayside, NY, 11361 718-445-0500 718-717-0202 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Steinway Medical 22-02 Steinway Street, Astoria, NY, 11105 347-242-2684 185 Central Avenue, Bethpage, NY, 11714 516-758-8600 NYU Langone Family Medicine Associates—West Babylon 580 Sunrise Highway, West Babylon, NY, 11704 631-422-9355 NYU Langone Geriatric Medicine Associates—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 400, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-2588 516-663-4644 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center 175 Fulton Avenue, Suite 100, Hempstead, NY, 11550 516-292-1034 J. Ira & Nicki Harris Family Ambulatory Care—Bridgehampton 2510 Montauk Highway, Bridgehampton, NY, 11932 631-386-3600 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Greenport 74825 Main Road, Greenport, NY, 11944 631-477-0070 631-477-8983 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Manhasset 929-455-6590 NYU Langone Medical Associates—North Babylon 1476 Deer Park Avenue, North Babylon, NY, 11703 631-635-5454 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Oakdale 4568A Sunrise Highway, Oakdale, NY, 11769 631-730-8542 631-730-6946 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-228-5801 929-455-9827 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203 100 Hospital Road, Suite 203, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-475-6900 631-447-5954 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, New Village 9 Village Green, Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-227-6665 631-289-1046 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Shoreham 45 Route 25A, Suite C, Shoreham, NY, 11786 631-744-3303 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Valley Stream 70 East Sunrise Highway, Suite 515E, Valley Stream, NY, 11581 516-536-5656 516-764-1915 NYU Langone Primary Care Associates—Bellport Village 16 Station Road, Suite 5–6, Bellport, NY, 11713 631-286-3995 NYU Langone Pediatric Associates—Garden City 1000 Franklin Avenue, Suite 100, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-248-8334 NYU Langone Primary Care Clinic—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 104, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-1500 NYU Langone Primary Care—Long Beach 340 West Park Avenue, Long Beach, NY, 11561 516-431-5064 NYU Langone Primary Care—Mattituck 11700 Main Road, Mattituck, NY, 11952 631-635-5440 631-315-5510 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Staten Island 7 Petrus Avenue, Staten Island, NY, 10312 718-948-8000 929-455-9712 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bronxville 77 Pondfield Road, Suite 2F1, Bronxville, NY, 10708 914-337-4986 914-337-6422 16244 South Military Trail, Suite 560, Delray Beach, FL, 33484 561-495-7787 561-495-1164 Access our online patient portal to schedule appointments and view test results. Login to MyChart We offer morning, evening, and weekend appointments to best meet your needs. NYU Langone Health Launches Walk-In Primary Care NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting Chicago, Illinois. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s ophthalmology experts are joining colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Ophthalmology 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. See the full conference information and abstract titles , including an update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, October 19 Session (CME) Section I: Ocular Surface Disease/Dry Eye—Update on the Zoster Eye Disease Study NYU Langone Presenter: Time: 8:43AM Location: E354 Instruction Course (CME) From Surface to Surgery: A Case-Based, Interactive, and Hands-On Guide to Corneal Tomography and Topography in Anterior Segment Surgery Laura Palazzolo, MD 11:30AM–12:45PM E352 Sunday, October 20 Approach to Cataract Surgery in Corneal Diseases 8:00–9:15AM S106A Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management Kenneth Wald, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health For a live episode of the Brain and Eye Show on Doctor Radio, Kenneth Wald, MD , sat down with co-hosts , to explore breakthroughs and challenges in retinal disease management. The discussion ranged from macular degeneration treatments and their risks to the complexities of retinal tears and cataract implant complications. Listener questions prompted engaging insights into managing these conditions, highlighting the delicate balance between cutting-edge therapies and practical patient care. Below, we share an excerpt from the interview, edited for length and clarity. Sirius XM subscribers can listen to the full conversation Dr. Galetta: I want to tackle early one of the topics I see on TV all the time. People are very concerned about it and what can we do about. And that’s the topic of macular degeneration. Are there two forms of this? What are we talking about on TV these days? Dr. Wald: It’s a good topic to bring up because it is such a prevalent condition. Many patients who have macular degeneration don’t even have symptoms. They’re unaware of it. It can only be diagnosed by an ophthalmologic examination, usually with a dilated pupil. We may find some early features of it which we call drusen, small yellow spots that don’t really affect the vision. Later there can be progressive degenerative changes, some of which lead to atrophy. That’s become an area of interest these days because we suddenly have some possibility of slowing the condition down, where previously there was none. Fifteen or 20 years ago, the wet form was generally quickly devastating to vision. But over the last 15 or so years we have a pretty good treatment for that that could at least control it. The problem is treatment burden; patients have to come as frequently as every six weeks, indefinitely, to manage this condition. We also have new treatments that are geared towards the dry form, which can hopefully slow disease progression. However, these medications can’t really reverse it or improve the vision, and that’s what’s controversial these days. Dr. Cohen: Do you think the drugs that are being advertised on TV for wet AMD are that much better than the older drugs? The studies are a little controversial. It’s not so much that they’re better. They work on very much the same principles. But the hope is they can work for longer. For many of the patients receiving these intraocular injections—which is no picnic to have someone insert a needle into your eye—the hope is that maybe some of these drugs can last four or more months, instead of six or eight weeks. The real answer is that a lot of the studies don’t show that much difference, even with these newer drugs that are touted on commercial radio and television. Do you think any of the drugs for dry AMD are ready for primetime, or do you think we’re going to get better ones down the road? Dr. Wald : That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration. And the word degeneration really is relevant here because the actual retina degenerates. We call that atrophy or geographic atrophy. When that happens, it usually starts without much change in the vision. But it’s relentlessly progressive. “That’s sort of the central issue in the field of the retina, because we do have this unmet need of dry age-related macular degeneration.” The drugs that are now on the market, Syfovre and Izervay, these drugs are given either every month or every other month, indefinitely. And patients will experience no visual improvement; they won’t get better. In fact, they’ll still get worse. But the thinking is, and the evidence shows, that they may get worse a little more slowly. There are a lot of side effects and costs associated with these drugs. And there’s some question whether it really improves the visual function. Anatomically, [patients’ geographic atrophy] seems to slow down compared to untreated patients over long periods of time. Whether continuing to treat this over long periods of time will yield some longer, better visual functioning is still being determined. These drugs are pretty new, and we’re looking at two- and four-year data now. We have the same situation today with Alzheimer’s disease. The drugs do not change the fact that somebody’s going to continue to progress. They’re just going to do it slower. Why wouldn’t you take that chance that you’re going to slow your disease down? Is it the cost? Is it the side effects? It is those things. Like all medical therapies, we’re balancing the risks and the benefits. These drugs have a very small therapeutic index. The benefit is small. We don’t even know how much better the visual functioning is going to be. It may have an anatomic benefit and very little visual functional benefit. That’s still being determined. And there are side effects. Simply doing the injection produces a small but real risk of infection. The patients can have some increased risk, not negligible, of developing the wet form of macular degeneration. If that happens, you’re sometimes getting two injections a month; it’s a pretty intensive thing. There are other risks involved. You do have to carefully weigh which patients that it would make sense for. There are a lot of institutions, including our own, that have not really been on board with this form of therapy yet. Let’s try the phone lines. Caller from New Jersey, how can we help you today? Listener 1: In February of last year, I experienced what looked like snakes in my field of vision. I went to the doctor and they lasered down a tear in the retina. Then a few months later they preemptively did the other eye. Everything seemed to be going well. I didn’t have a lot of floaters. But just recently on a follow-up visit, they found something on the front of my eye that I can best describe as it looks like a piece of partially cooked egg white. I’m waiting now to get a biopsy. Are these conditions related? And what could this thing be on the front of my eye? Dr. Cohen : When you look in the mirror on the front of the eye, can you see what they’re talking about? Yes. : Is it sort of at the 3 or 9 o’clock position, and it kind of looks white? : That sounds like a pinguecula, which is related to sun exposure and is almost always benign and has nothing to do with your retinal tears. But your retinal tears are interesting. Dr. Wald, how often do you prophylactically, treat the second eye? Well, that’s controversial. It depends on what the doctor saw. Obviously, you’ve developed what we call a vitreous separation and an associated tear in the retina. With treatment of the fellow eye, I’m guessing that they saw maybe an asymptomatic tear in the fellow eye. Otherwise, there aren’t too many abnormalities that we prophylactically treat in a situation like yours. But again, it’s difficult to say. I’m just glad your floaters got better and you’re seeing well. And, as Dr. Cohen said, it sounds like your external eye problem is unrelated to the floaters and the retinal tear. : How often when someone has acute floaters, when you see them initially or in follow-up, do you find tears that need treatment? If a patient comes in with floaters and we don’t see a tear, it’s pretty rare. However, if you found a tear—you know, I actually just published a paper on this about a year ago— it’s pretty common to find a second tear . It’s not even uncommon to have a detached retina. So, someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment. “Someone who has a sudden onset of floaters and a torn retina, they have to be watched closely for at least a year because they are at risk for other tears and even progression to a retinal detachment.” How quickly should somebody who develops floaters see a retina doctor? You’d like it to be within a day or so. Because if you have this sudden onset of floaters, your risk of a torn retina is perhaps 5 or 10 percent. And if you are not treated promptly, if you have a torn retina, you may have as much as a 50/50 chance of going on to a very serious problem called a detached retina. Realistically, I’d say most people are seen within a couple of days, and it works out okay. It’s really the people who ignore it for a week or two that seem to develop retinal detachments. : I am always the exception to all the rules. I had an acute floater at a show in New York, and then another one within several minutes. I left the show and went to Philly to see a doctor there. I was okay. I was seen the next day and the next week. But then two weeks later, I had two horseshoe tears. And I can’t believe he didn’t see them the first time because there wasn’t any reason, like blood, that would prevent a good exam. Dr. Wald, what do you think about that scenario? If you see somebody with a floater but you don’t see a tear, when do you say, ‘Hey, come back again’? I’d say it depends on the risk factors. It’s a very common condition, and you just can’t examine people over and over for something that’s very unlikely to be a problem. But I’d look at their refractive error, meaning are they very nearsighted? Is there blood, as Dr. Cohen was saying, because that would diminish our ability to detect things. Do they have what we call precursor abnormalities, meaning lattice or other things that may give rise to retinal tear? And, what Dr. Cohen is saying, it is kind of unusual that you would examine someone initially and then find a tear a week or two later. And whenever that does happen, I always wonder, did I miss it? You just can’t know, because you looked and presumably you made your best effort. “Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day.” Isn’t that always the case in medicine? We’re always concerned that we missed something, that we didn’t quite make the diagnosis. We live with that concern every day. Is there any better way to look for a retinal tear than you just viewing? Is there a next-level thing that you can do these days? We’d love to have that. In fact, one of our graduates, Jesse Jung, has reported on this very topic . They looked at our best optical tool, called an Optos, and really, it’s not as good. It’s probably pretty good, especially if you already know where the tear is and you can direct the photographer. But it’s not as good. You’ll still miss tears. So right now, in our field, we still have to really look hard. Our next caller is from Connecticut. How can we help you today? Listener 2: I have a problem with one of my cataract implants. I had it done about 10 years ago, but in the last year or so, it moves a little bit, and it gets a drop of blood on the eye. And then for about two hours, you can’t really see out of that eye. It gets foggy. Then it goes away. They’ve been giving me cyclopentolate to dilate the eye so that it doesn’t happen that often, but it still happens. I can’t replace that implant because I’m on blood thinners and the doctor won’t even bother doing it. You’re calling the right person because one of Dr. Wald’s special interests and expertise is dealing with implants that aren’t in the right place and behaving properly. It’s a tricky problem that you have. It depends on how much it’s bothering you. Sometimes we do replace the implants. The condition you seem to have—an implant that’s not stable and is causing occasional bleeding in the eye—is called UGH syndrome . The H stands for hemorrhage. The motion of the implant, as you’ve been describing it, rubs part of the eye tissue and causes bleeding. Sometimes Cyclogyl can help. Sometimes anti-inflammatories will help. Ultimately, if it’s a sporadic problem and you’re mostly seeing okay, I probably would do just what they’re doing. Just manage it conservatively with drops and accept that once in a while you’ll have this problem. The alternative would be a surgery. Again, it all depends on the type of lens in your eye. Some are more apt to be maintained, repositioned, and fixated. Others have to be removed. But the presence of blood thinners doesn’t absolutely rule it out. We operate on people on blood thinners all the time. Most of the studies don’t show that there’s a significantly different risk involved. So it’s really a judgment of what to do. It sounds like, from what I’m hearing, it’s an occasional problem that could be managed with drops for now. So, I think the main thing for you, because other issues like high eye pressure can come up—you just need to be followed closely. If you start having frequent bleeds and the lens is moving very significantly so you can’t see well, you may have to ultimately have a surgical procedure to correct it. But I think it’s an important point that blood thinners don’t make him a bad candidate for most eye procedures. I definitely think about it. It would be a factor. If someone had a retinal detachment, I’m going to do the surgery. Nonetheless, if it’s a macular pucker, a less severe problem, or not progressive, I’ll weigh that a little bit. I feel like there’s still a slight increased risk of even severe complications. But most studies don’t really show that, and we are used to dealing with that all the time. And we generally would take the risk of bleeding in the eye over a stroke to the brain. Correct. So, we’ll keep the patients on blood thinners. I always say brain trumps eye. Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, is a cornea specialist and professor of ophthalmology whose research focuses on infections of the eye, specifically herpes zoster eye disease. She also serves as vice chair of academic affairs in the Department of Ophthalmology and as an advisor for the three-year MD pathway. Steven L. Galetta, MD, is the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD, Professor and Chair of Neurology and a professor of ophthalmology. He specializes in neuro-ophthalmology with an emphasis on disorders of the brain and spinal cord such as vision problems associated with multiple sclerosis. Retinal Ophthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Kenneth Wald, MD, is a professor of ophthalmology and director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal disease. He specializes in the management of retinal conditions such as retinal tears and detachment, macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and eye trauma. Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results Milan R. Amin, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health BB-301 is an experimental gene therapy for OPMD, a rare disorder characterized by weakness of the eyelid and throat muscles; NYU Langone is leading a single-center Phase 1b/2a trial to evaluate its safety and efficacy. At present, 2 patients have been treated with a third enrolled; another 21 who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. After 9 months of treatment for the first patient and 6 months for the second, preliminary data show sustained improvements in swallowing. Additional interim results are expected in early 2025. Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a rare genetic disorder that progressively weakens the muscles of the eyelids and throat. Symptom onset typically begins after age 40, with patients often developing severe dysphagia that can lead to malnutrition, dehydration, and aspiration pneumonia—and, in some cases, death. Although treatments such as cricopharyngeal dilation or myotomy can improve swallowing-related symptoms, relief is usually temporary. To date, no treatment has been approved that addresses OPMD’s underlying pathology. However, an experimental gene therapy known as BB-301 aims to do just that. A Phase 1b/2a clinical trial began in November 2023 at NYU Langone Health, and preliminary data are encouraging. “The hope is that this will be a permanent fix for folks with OPMD,” says , chief of the Division of Laryngology , who is leading the trial. “These patients know their fate, because they’ve watched family members go through exactly the same thing,” Dr. Amin observes. “As the disease progresses, they’re unable to eat with friends. Many end up on feeding tubes. They’re worried about passing the gene on to their children.” Silencing and Replacing an Errant Gene OPMD is caused by mutations in a gene that encodes PABPN1, a protein crucial for RNA processing in cells throughout the body. Clumps of abnormal PABPN1 accumulate in some muscle cells, impairing their function and eventually killing them. BB-301 is designed to stop this cascade of destruction. Developed by the California-based Benitec Biopharma, the therapy uses an adenovirus vector to deliver genetic code that silences the dysfunctional PABPN1 gene and replaces it with a functional version. The vector is injected into the pharyngeal constrictor muscles through incisions on both sides of the neck. “The open approach enables us to deliver the therapy directly to the muscles, which has been shown preclinically to generate a stronger gene effect,” Dr. Amin explains. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety, but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” The single-center study’s Phase 1b phase will test three escalating doses of the therapy, leading to a Phase 2a trial that will test the optimal dose. Two patients have been treated so far, with a third patient recently enrolled. An additional 21 patients who have participated in a natural history study will soon be eligible to enroll. “Right now, we’re just looking at safety,” Dr. Amin says, “but we’ve begun seeing some potential efficacy as well.” Offering Patients New Hope To measure BB-301’s effects on swallowing ability, the researchers assess total pharyngeal residue using four types of food: a thin liquid, a moderate liquid, a thick liquid, and a solid. Early results have been released for the first patient, with positive responses seen at 90 and 180 days of follow-up. For moderate and thick liquids, as well as solid foods, pharyngeal residue was lower than at any point during a previous natural history study of the patient. For thin liquid, residue was comparable to the lowest value seen during that study. The patient’s self-reported swallowing difficulties have also improved, and neither she nor the other participant treated have experienced major adverse effects. The second patient has also shown improvements at 90 days of follow-up, according to Dr. Amin, though her presenting symptoms were milder, and their mitigation has been less dramatic. “This treatment has had an impact [on the first patient] beyond just her physical health. She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” Much more research will be needed to answer the questions raised by these findings, such as whether BB-301 brings improvements to a sizable proportion of patients, and whether (as with Elevidys, the gene therapy recently approved for Duchenne muscular dystrophy ) a single dose can elicit durable effects. Additional preliminary results are expected in early 2025. For patients with OPMD, however, the trial already offers a different kind of benefit—a sense of possibility. As Dr. Amin puts it, “If it can reverse their dysfunction, it may significantly improve not only their quality of life but also their lifespan.” The trial’s first subject, he adds, has resumed going to restaurants, no longer fearing that others will see her struggling to swallow. “This treatment has had an impact beyond just her physical health,” Dr. Amin says. “She told me, ‘I now have hope.’” NYU Langone Health receives funding from Benitec Biopharma to support the Phase 1b/2a trial of BB-301 for OPMD. Laryngology & Voice, Otolaryngology, Swallow and Airway Milan R. Amin, MD is a professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Laryngology. His research interests center on voice and communication disorders and swallowing disorders. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Miami Beach, Florida, September 28 to October 1. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite its status as a leading cause of irreversible blindness , uveitis is still an uncommon focus of research. The autoimmune condition is often treatable if caught in time, but choosing the best medication for each patient is still based on trial and error. Since his arrival in October 2023 as director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology at NYU Langone Health, leading specialist C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA , has launched an ambitious plan to rethink how uveitis is classified. Doing so, he says, will help identify underlying disease pathways and improve the selection of vision-saving biologics. Here, Dr. Samson discusses the state of the field and his vision for the future. Reliance on Trial and Error Dr. Samson, what’s the current state of clinical care for uveitis? Dr. Samson: At present, uveitis remains the rarest subspecialty in ophthalmology, but I think significant strides have been made in clinical care. You can think of a uveitis specialist as the rheumatologist of eye doctors. To treat autoimmune conditions, rheumatologists use, in many cases, systemic immunosuppressives or immunomodulators. These medications can be vision-saving for uveitis patients, and yet most eye doctors have very little experience in using them. “We need a new way of approaching patients with inflammatory eye disease.” While the medications are very effective in treating patients and preventing blindness, the clinical approach of trial and error really hasn’t changed over the last 25 years. Patients often sense this uncertainty, asking “Well, which medicine do we try next?” We need a new way of approaching inflammatory eye disease, and that personal mission is what brought me to NYU Langone. Improving Disease Classification What’s the new paradigm that you’re pursuing here? There’s been a lot of research in animal models of uveitis, to the point where researchers have mapped out the entire pathophysiological mechanism and used knockout models or particular therapies to cure the uveitis in the animals. But when we use biologics targeting those same molecules in patients with uveitis, it often doesn’t yield such a great response, meaning that selecting the appropriate treatment for each patient is still a guessing game. For example, interleukin-1 (IL-1) is critical in animal models of uveitis, but biologics that target IL-1 don’t produce significant clinical effects in most cases of uveitis in humans. My idea is that animal models don’t accurately reflect what happens in humans. Instead of relying on animal models, we can start analyzing and studying the immunopathological mechanism of uveitis in human patients, with the ultimate goal being to understand the disease process. Also, uveitis is typically characterized by whether it’s associated with another autoimmune condition, like lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. Instead, why don’t we categorize uveitis based on the individual’s immune system activity? This approach would provide a more accurate way to categorize the condition. I have a large and diverse cohort of patients with uveitis, along with data on biomarkers that illustrate the various presentations of uveitis in the eye. For example, uveitis in a patient with sarcoidosis can present in five different ways. In many cases, I believe that presentation can reveal a difference in immune pathology. Now that I’m here, I have a great team and the resources to pursue my research idea. How might this rethinking of disease classification help patients? Drug companies continue coming up with biologics that target immune molecules. Ten years ago, I had maybe 7 choices of medications; now I have over 20. However, it hasn’t gotten any easier to select the appropriate biologic for a patient because we have no standardized methodology. Uveitis is a broad umbrella category of at least 30 different diseases, each with unique immunopathological mechanisms that have not yet been elucidated. If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error. “If we don’t figure out the different immune pathways in each of these disorders, treatment will continue to rely on trial and error.” Wouldn’t it be better to apply precision medicine to uveitis, and be able to identify each patient’s specific immune pathway and match it with the most appropriate medication? Once we start categorizing uveitis immunologically, we can conduct retrospective analyses for each disorder to identify which patients responded well to which treatments. We can build immunological signatures from blood samples and use those signatures to select the most effective drug for each individual. That’ll be a game changer. An Optimistic Eye Toward the Future Looking ahead, what are you most encouraged by in the field? Several things give me optimism. There’s now a lot of interest in uveitis outside of our very small research community. Uveitis, which is often associated with other autoimmune conditions, has “orphan disease” status from the FDA. So for companies, it presents a pathway where you can do a smaller and less expensive clinical trial and find information about your drug without having to do a gigantic rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis trial. In fact, given that we’re one of the few uveitis centers in the nation, NYU Langone has already been approached by two companies wanting to run their clinical trials for uveitis here. Secondly, I believe that there’s a modestly higher number of immunologists studying uveitis, based on research meetings I’ve attended and reading what manuscripts are being published. With more investigators with diverse expertise studying the condition, we’ll gain greater insight into the disease and further improve treatments. The last thing is that I’m pleasantly surprised by how well-informed patients are about the condition and the available treatments. They show great interest in and support for my research and that of other specialists. It serves as strong motivation to move forward and try to make their lives better. C. Michael Samson, MD, MBA, is director of the Division of Uveitis Services in the Department of Ophthalmology. He specializes in uveitis and other inflammatory eye disorders, including scleritis and ocular cicatricial pemphigoid. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Retention of patent ductus arteriosus and pulmonary artery banding aid left ventricle before successful transplant. The patient at his first birthday celebration. View the Slideshow Novel Hybrid Strategy and Heart Transplant for Infant’s Cardiomyopathy In September 2022, diagnostic scans taken during the 27th week of an Israeli woman’s pregnancy revealed a severely weakened left ventricle in her developing fetus. The prenatal diagnosis suggested that after birth, the newborn would likely develop severe heart failure and require a heart transplant. At NYU Langone Health, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists confirmed the life-threatening diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy via a fetal echocardiogram. At 37 weeks into her pregnancy, the woman gave birth to a baby boy, who was in cardiogenic shock and taken to the for specialized care. “From our perspective, he was very sick,” says , medical director of the . “He would need a heart transplant to survive.” “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating.” A left ventricular assist device called the Berlin Heart can help a weakened heart move blood through the body, but the device carries an increased risk of bleeding and stroke in infants. To bridge the time until a donor heart would become available, pediatric heart surgeon , proposed a novel alternative that had been used for other congenital heart defects: using the patient’s healthy right ventricle to augment blood flow to the body. To accomplish that, intravenous prostaglandin E1 kept the newborn’s patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) blood vessel open. Surgeons also performed bilateral branch pulmonary artery banding to limit that artery’s blood flow and reduce the risk of long-term lung damage. The baby soon stabilized and remained on a ventilator under mild sedation. At two months of life, his PDA began to constrict, requiring catheter stent implantation across the ductus arteriosus.  In June 2023, a donor heart became available, allowing surgeons led by Dr. Kumar and , to rebuild the baby’s pulmonary arteries and perform a heart transplant. “The donor heart worked perfectly from the moment it started beating,” Dr. Kumar says. “This excellent outcome is the result of our team’s extensive experience and seamless collaboration,” adds Dr. Mosca. “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later.” The boy’s parents, who had relocated to New York, took their son home two months later, and he continued to receive extensive outpatient pediatric rehabilitation services through . “Infants who make it to transplant have a greater than 50 percent chance of doing well with the same heart 25 years later,” Dr. Singh says. In December 2023, the boy celebrated another big milestone: his first birthday. Developing Fetus Diagnosed with Dilated Cardiomyopathy After diagnostic scans at 27 weeks of a woman’s pregnancy revealed a weakened left ventricle in her fetus, maternal–fetal medicine and pediatric cardiology specialists at NYU Langone confirmed the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy. The woman gave birth to a baby boy at 37 weeks, and he began receiving specialty care in the Congenital Cardiovascular Care Unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Intravenous Medication Retains PDA In infants, the patent ductus arteriosus in the right ventricle normally closes after birth, but can be kept open with medication. As one part of a novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons used prostaglandin E1 to keep the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in his healthy right ventricle open. Retaining the function of this PDA blood vessel, which normally closes after birth, helped augment blood flow throughout the baby’s body until a donor heart became available. Pulmonary Artery Banding Limits Blood Flow Pulmonary artery banding, in the context of cardiomyopathy, can limit blood flow to the lungs and reduce long-term risks. In the second part of the novel hybrid strategy to support the newborn’s severely weakened left ventricle, surgeons performed pulmonary artery banding. Placing bands on the outside of the pulmonary artery limited its blood flow from the heart to the lungs, thereby reducing the young patient’s risk of long-term lung damage. Successful Heart Transplant Photo of the pediatric cardiology care team. From left: Dr. Achiau Ludomirsky, Dr. Rakesh Singh, Henya Grossman, Nathaniel Grossman, Yair Broyer, Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar, and Dr. Manu Varma. In June 2023, a donor heart became available and a team of doctors, including T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, and Ralph S. Mosca, MD, performed a heart transplant after rebuilding the baby’s pulmonary arteries. The patient was able to leave the hospital two months later, and continued to receive outpatient rehabilitation services. In December 2023, he celebrated his first birthday. Prev Next Ralph S. Mosca, MD, is Henry H. Arnhold Chair and Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Dr. Mosca is also director of the Congenital Heart Center and chief of the Division of Pediatric and Adult Congenital Cardiac Surgery. Rakesh Singh, MD, is the Haugland Family Associate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology in Pediatrics and medical director of the Pediatric Heart Failure and Transplantation Program. He specializes in cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, and other conditions that can lead to heart failure and a needed transplant. Latest in Heart Surgery Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Add-on therapy significantly improves function, risk, and survival in a difficult-to-treat cardiopulmonary condition. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery For patients with advanced heart failure, VADs offer a path to lifesaving surgery. Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Internationally recognized cardiac transplant surgeon discusses his team’s unprecedented study. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Expanding their suite of AI tools for breast imaging, researchers develop a machine learning model for DCE-MRI. A machine learning model for MRI aids radiologists in detecting breast cancer and may help to reduce unnecessary biopsy, according to a new study published in Science Translational Medicine The model is the latest tool from data scientist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health who are applying artificial intelligence (AI) to improve the accuracy of breast imaging modalities, including . Postdoctoral fellow Jan Witowski, MD, PhD, is first author of the new report. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign,” Dr. Geras says. The suite of models will ultimately be combined into a larger AI system, with the goal of making predictions and learning from multiple imaging modalities simultaneously. “Our studies demonstrate how artificial intelligence can help radiologists interpret breast imaging exams to identify only those findings that show real signs of breast cancer and to avoid verification by biopsy in cases that turn out to be benign.” “We’re hoping to find very subtle correlations among different imaging modalities and learn signal that is too weak for humans to notice,” Dr. Geras says. AI for Breast MRI While mammography is largely the relied upon screening exam for breast cancer, MRI has an edge over mammography for its ability to detect small lesions. Yet, a high rate of false-positive findings has limited its use in breast cancer screening, with roughly three biopsies with benign results occurring for every one biopsy with malignant findings To improve the specificity of breast MRI, Dr. Geras and colleagues, including imaging specialist Linda Moy, MD , a professor of radiology, used more than 21,000 bilateral dynamic contrast-enhanced breast MRI exams from patients at NYU Langone to build and train a machine learning model. They then evaluated the model on three external datasets from other institutions in the United States and Europe. “The model is sufficiently robust that it generalizes to other populations. That is often missing in papers that develop AI for different applications,” Dr. Geras says. Their analysis revealed the AI-based system to be on par with radiologists in detecting breast cancer in MRI exams, and a simulation indicated the model may help to avoid unnecessary biopsies in patients with BI-RADS 4 lesions, for which a “biopsy-all” strategy is currently recommended. AI for Breast Ultrasound In a previous study, and one of the largest of its kind, the research team developed an AI model for breast ultrasound, utilizing nearly 5.5 million breast ultrasound images from more than 143,000 patients treated at NYU Langone. Breast ultrasound rivals both mammography and MRI for its low cost, accessibility, and power to distinguish solid masses from cystic lesions. However, like MRI, difficulty in interpreting images leads to many false-positive findings and unnecessary biopsies. Not only was the AI model as accurate at generating diagnoses as experienced radiologists, but when used by radiologists to assist in diagnosis, false-positive rates decreased by 37 percent, and the number of requested biopsies dropped by 27 percent. The study also suggested the system could be used to triage ultrasound exams by automatically dismissing benign cases while escalating high-risk ones to a thorough assessment workflow. “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening…. Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” “If our efforts to use machine learning as a triaging tool for ultrasound studies prove successful, ultrasound could become a more effective tool in breast cancer screening, especially as an alternative to mammography, and for those with dense breast tissue,” Dr. Moy says. “Its future impact on improving women’s breast health could be profound.” Further Refining the Models Dr. Geras cautions that while these initial results are promising, the research teams only looked at past exams in their analyses, and clinical trials of the tools in current patients and real-world conditions are needed before they can be routinely deployed. He also has plans to refine the AI software to include additional patient information, such as a patient’s added risk from having a family history or genetic mutation tied to breast cancer. Linda Moy, MD, is a professor of radiology. She specializes in breast imaging, and her research focuses on artificial intelligence to assist with the detection of breast cancer as well as MRI scans of the breast to support precision medicine for breast cancer. Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Both the robotic and open approaches to liver resection show comparable results for efficacy, but robotic resection is associated with significantly shorter hospital LOS, ICU admissions, and rates of severe complications. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Surgery . 2023 Jan 01;158(1):45-64. Long-term oncologic outcomes of robotic surgery remain a topic of debate in surgical oncology, but little data has been published thus far. In one of the largest studies to date of full robotic liver resection (RLR) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), researchers co-led by Karim J. Halazun, MD , section chief of hepatobiliary surgery in the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery at NYU Langone Health, found that its efficacy equaled that of open surgery—with superior results for RLR in perioperative outcomes. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers.” JAMA Surgery, the study was a retrospective analysis of prospectively maintained databases from five high-volume centers in the United States and Europe. The team evaluated both the short- and long-term outcomes of patients who underwent RLR at four of the centers between 2010 and 2020, compared with a control group of patients who underwent open liver resection (OLR) in the same time interval at an international referral center for HCC surgical management. A total of 398 patients were identified in the analysis, with 158 in the RLR group and 240 in the OLR group. Overall survival rates at 90 days and the estimated overall survival rates at 24 months were similar for both cohorts, as was the cumulative incidence of death related to tumor recurrence. In terms of perioperative tolerability, however, RLR achieved markedly better results. The median hospital length of stay (LOS) for RLR was less than half that for OLR, and admissions to the intensive care unit were two-thirds lower. The incidence of posthepatectomy liver failure was also over two-thirds lower for RLR than for OLR. “Our findings suggest that robotic liver resection confers significant advantages over open surgery in patients with HCC at expert centers,” says Dr. Halazun. “Reduced ICU admissions and hospital LOS, as well as a lower incidence of severe complications, may ultimately lead to a reduction of overall costs and compensate for RLR’s higher technology-related expenses. “By reducing morbidity, RLR may expand the number of patients who can receive treatment from which they are currently excluded due to the risk of liver decompensation.” Karim J. Halazun, MD, is a professor of surgery, section chief of hepatobiliary surgery, and surgical director of the Adult Liver Transplant Program. He specializes in the surgical management of bile duct cancer and pancreatic cancer, as well as liver cancer and metastases. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide NYU Langone researchers have conducted the first meta-analysis of adverse psychiatric outcomes in randomized, controlled trials of GLP-1 receptor agonists. The study examined results for over 65,000 patients and found no difference in rates of suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm between drug recipients and those receiving placebo. These findings do not support previous concerns that GLP-1 agonists might present a heightened suicide risk, as has been associated with bariatric surgery in numerous studies. GLP-1 receptor agonists have been shown to improve diabetes, reduce cardiovascular events, and cause life-changing weight loss. However, concerns have been raised about increased adverse psychiatric effects—specifically, suicide. Given the exponential increase in the use of these agents, even a slightly heightened risk of this catastrophic outcome could have major clinical impacts. To investigate that possibility, NYU Langone Health researchers launched the first meta-analysis of suicide and self-harm among patients treated with GLP-1 agonists in randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk after such procedures,” says preventive cardiologist , who led the study. “If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know—and if they don’t, it could further accelerate the sea change occurring in our approach to treating obesity.” “Bariatric surgery has long been the gold standard for treating severe obesity, but studies show a small increase in suicide risk. If GLP-1 agonists pose a similar risk, that’s important to know.” The study’s results, set to be presented at the upcoming 2024 American Heart Association conference , suggest that the similarities in outcome between the two approaches do not include that potential downside. Suicide Risk with Bariatric Surgery Raises Concerns About GLP-1 Questions about a link between suicidality and GLP-1 agonists first came to public awareness in July 2023 , when the Icelandic national health department described three patients taking the drugs, two of whom had suicidal thoughts and one who engaged in self-harm. That news spurred the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and researchers worldwide to investigate the possibility of a causal connection. Dr. Heffron and his team, however, had begun their study a year earlier. His curiosity was sparked by a 2022 journal discussion with colleagues in NYU Langone’s —one of the largest and longest-standing such centers in the country. The group was reviewing a paper on tirzepatide, a GLP-1 agonist, which reported that the drug’s efficacy for weight loss was nearly comparable to that of bariatric surgery. “Why bariatric surgery is so effective is not completely understood,” Dr. Heffron explains, “but we know that it leads, at least transiently, to a rise in blood levels of GLP-1. We also know there are GLP-1 receptors in the brain.” That made him wonder: Is the increase in GLP-1 responsible for the heightened risk of suicide associated with the surgery? If so, he thought, an elevated risk might also be seen with GLP-1 receptor agonists. Illustration of a GLP-1 receptor agonist (red) bound to a GLP-1 receptor (blue). Source: Getty Images Dr. Heffron was among the first cardiologists in the United States to prescribe such drugs—originally intended for those with diabetes—to treat obesity. Although none of his own patients had shown signs of suicidality, he felt it was urgent to learn whether the medications could have that unintended consequence. To find out, Dr. Heffron and his team began with a comprehensive literature search for randomized, controlled trials involving adults with obesity or diabetes or both treated with GLP-1 agonists for at least six months. The 11 researchers screened over 7,000 articles and extracted data for 144 that met the initial criteria for inclusion. After querying all available data sources, including direct contact with principal investigators or corresponding authors, the team found that 21 of the trials had recorded risk of adverse psychiatric outcomes. A random-effects meta-analysis of these studies was performed to estimate risk ratios for the primary outcome: suicidal ideation/attempt/completion or self-harm. Extensive Analysis Brings Reassuring News By the time this laborious process was completed, the EMA and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had issued their own preliminary reports, based on analyses of electronic medical records as well as observational studies and clinical trials, which found no link between GLP-1 agonists and suicidal thoughts or self-harm. Both agencies, however, called for further research to determine whether a small risk might exist for some subgroups. The NYU Langone team’s meta-analysis confirmed and broadened these findings. Across the studies that were included, over 36,000 subjects received GLP-1 agonists and over 30,000 received placebo. The event rate was very low—and statistically comparable—for both cohorts: 53 for patients receiving the drugs, and 45 for those in the control groups. No evidence emerged, moreover, that patients’ psychiatric history had an impact on risk. Although six studies (including nearly 12,000 patients) had a history of suicide attempt/depression as exclusion criteria for enrollment, removal of these studies did not affect the overall findings of the meta-analysis. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials … But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Dr. Heffron and his colleagues also conducted a subgroup analysis, collecting trials that compared GLP-1 agonists with DPP-4 inhibitors (an older class of diabetes medications), both of which raise blood levels of GLP-1. “There was no difference in suicide risk between drug recipients and controls with either type of medication,” he notes. “So it would seem that GLP-1 is not the mechanism of the increased risk seen with bariatric surgery.” The takeaway, Dr. Heffron adds, is that GLP-1 agonists could offer the benefits of bariatric surgery without that elevated risk. “We need to continue with Phase 4 observational trials to look for any rare side effects,” he says. “But it’s reassuring to see that with the highest level of evidence, there’s no signal for concern.” Sean P. Heffron, MD, is an assistant professor of cardiology. His research centers around modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease, including optimizing effects of weight loss after bariatric surgery. Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening Research from NYU Langone Health points to sleep centers as an ideal setting to conduct recommended screening for primary aldosteronism in individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Published in the journal , the research represents a meaningful step forward in an understudied group. Primary aldosteronism is typically viewed as a rare disease; however, it disproportionately affects upward of one in three people with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension. Clinical guidelines from the Endocrine Society recommend screening individuals with comorbid obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension for primary aldosteronism, yet screening rates remain low “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism.” Insoo Suh, MD “The sleep center seems like an unusual place to check for a hormonal disorder, but it’s where we can find individuals most likely to have primary aldosteronism to guide their treatment beyond sleep apnea management,” says endocrinology surgeon , senior author on the study. Endocrinologist , and sleep medicine specialist Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH , served as co-authors. Primary Aldosteronism and Comorbidities Individuals with primary aldosteronism produce too much aldosterone. This hormonal imbalance leads to sodium accumulation, water retention, increased blood pressure, and a potentially dangerous drop in potassium levels. Primary aldosteronism is an often-overlooked cause of hypertension. An interesting bidirectional connection between primary aldosteronism and obstructive sleep apnea has emerged. High aldosterone can cause fluid buildup around the throat, making obstructive sleep apnea worse. Conversely, treating primary aldosteronism can lessen the severity of sleep apnea. New Insight into Screening and Prevalence Earlier reports have suggested that few patients with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension are screened, so NYU Langone researchers designed their study to gather current real-world data on primary aldosteronism screening and prevalence. During a retrospective chart review of 354 individuals diagnosed with or who self-reported having hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea who participated in sleep studies at NYU Langone between January and September 2021, Dr. Suh and colleagues discovered that the screening rate was 19 percent—nearly two and a half times higher than anticipated, based on previous reports of screening rates of under 8 percent Of screened patients, 21 percent ended up being positive for primary aldosteronism, with a correlation found between positive screens and more-severe obstructive sleep apnea. “Nearly one in four individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension screened in the NYU Langone sleep center had underlying primary aldosteronism, which corroborates previous reports,” says Dr. Suh. He adds that this information should encourage more clinicians to screen regularly for hormonal imbalance, especially when managing severe sleep apnea. Instituting a Standard Protocol Raises Screening Rates To increase primary aldosteronism screening rates, the sleep center launched a standardized biochemical screening protocol for all individuals with obstructive sleep apnea and hypertension in April 2021. The screening protocol consisted of blood tests for serum aldosterone levels, plasma renin activity, and the aldosterone-to-plasma renin activity ratio. After protocol implementation, the screening rate within the center nearly doubled, increasing from 12 percent at baseline to 23 percent. “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies.” “Not only did we double the screening rate in our sleep center with a standard protocol, but our screening rate far exceeds what’s been reported in other studies,” says Dr. Mahmoudi, the clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine “Our study yields compelling evidence for instituting and standardizing primary aldosteronism screening, specifically in sleep centers, if we want to increase detection,” says Dr. Mahmoudi. Insoo Suh, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and vice chair of surgical innovation. His research and clinical interests focus on innovative surgical techniques and alternative treatment technologies for conditions requiring surgery of the thyroid, parathyroid, and adrenal glands. Mandana Mahmoudi, MD, PhD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and clinical director of sleep medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. Her research and clinical interests include sleep apnea, sleep disorders, hypersomnia, and sleep hygiene. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Joshua Chodosh, MD Over the past two decades, nearly all states and territories have published their own plans for mitigating the public health effects of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias (ADRDs). Although many of these plans address important issues such as primary prevention, early detection, and inequitable population impacts, little is known about the efficacy of those efforts. In a study Alzheimer’s & Dementia , researchers examined the history of state and territory ADRD plans and analyzed their design and implementation—and found significant shortcomings in many areas. They also offered policy recommendations on both the state and federal levels to address those issues. Here, nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert , a senior author of the study and the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research at NYU Langone Health, discusses its findings. Asking New Questions Dr. Chodosh, what was your team’s goal in analyzing this massive collection of public health plans? Dr. Chodosh : We wanted to understand what the states and territories were doing about ADRDs, and how well they were doing it. It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes? And did any of these plans have elements that might be useful for other states to emulate? “It’s great to have an initiative and the motivation and ambition to do something. But has it led to significant outcomes?” Though state and territory plans started emerging soon after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Alzheimer’s Association launched the Healthy Brain Initiative in 2005, no one had ever tried to answer those questions systematically. As a first step, we focused on the topic of improving early detection as a public health priority. We also wanted to trace the evolution of the plans and how it was affected by national capacity-building initiatives. To that end, we looked at how state plans have addressed three priorities specified in the 2011 National Alzheimer’s Project Act , or NAPA: improving rates and timeliness of ADRD detection and diagnosis, developing the primary care workforce for dementia detection and care, and promoting equity for populations disproportionately affected by ADRD. Analyzing Efficacy How did you and your colleagues go about your investigation? Dr. Chodosh: Through web searches, we identified plans for 49 states, plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We then created a uniform variable structure, including the year of initial plan development, to identify common objectives, highlight key recommendations within each objective, and collate commonalities across plans. We also identified objectives within each of the three key NAPA priority categories that could be compared across plans. To characterize the quality of state and territory plans, we determined whether each NAPA healthcare priority was identified as a problem with a goal for improvement, and whether any specific strategies or action steps were proposed to achieve that goal. We examined plans that included actionable strategies to see if they included criteria for evaluating results. Finally, we looked at the composition of each plan’s stakeholder working groups to see the extent to which public health entities, such as departments of public health, were integrated into the planning process. Uncovering Widespread Shortcomings What were your main findings? We found that most state and territory plans had no real implementation plan. More specifically, they lacked any kind of financial infrastructure to implement their objectives. Equally important, most of the plans had no clarity on evaluation. If you do implement some aspect of your plan, how do you know if it’s had an impact? What data is available to you? What data do you need that isn’t available, and how will you get it? Once you get it, how will you use it? Those questions remained largely unanswered. “We have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. It’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring.” One big reason for this uncertainty is that we have no nationally supported quality measures for dementia care in the United States. So it’s hard for states to be sure what they should be measuring. Have the shortcomings you identified improved over time? To some extent. Health equity was a minor focus before NAPA; it has emerged as a distinct one for most of the 39 plans created after 2011. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ introduction of the Medicare Annual Wellness Visit in 2012 made ADRD detection an explicit target for clinical improvement. Since then, there’s been an emerging focus on including dementia in medical training curricula. BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act of 2018 has also spurred some changes. Before its passage, few public health departments were formally integrated into state and territory ADRD plans; that has begun to change. The BOLD Act also provides funding for states to develop blueprints for implementation and evaluation of their plans. That has moved the needle a bit, but we’re still far from where we need to be. A Road Map for Improvement What can be done to improve state and territory ADRD plans? In our paper, we offer four policy recommendations. First, the federal government should establish a national authority to oversee planning and implementation of public health measures around ADRDs. Second, we need to develop standardized, reportable measures of ADRD detection, care, and quality. Third, we should explore new opportunities for sustainable public health funding on the state level. And fourth, we should require collaboration between all national agencies and organizations that have ADRD components. We’re heading in the right direction, but the work has just begun. Joshua Chodosh, MD, is the Michael L. Freedman Professor of Geriatric Research and director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care and of The Michael L. Freedman Research Center on Aging, Technology, and Cognitive Health. He also serves as a staff physician at the VA New York Harbor Healthcare System. His research interests include dementia, cognitive assessment, and hearing loss. Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Innovative trials incorporate virtual visits to study the life-changing potential of neuromodulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is making steady inroads as an evidence-based therapy for the management of cognitive, motor, speech, and mood symptoms in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). For the past eight years, , leader of tDCS research and clinical programs at NYU Langone Health, has been working with a team to develop a method of providing tDCS to MS patients remotely. “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment,” says Dr. Charvet, whose work has made NYU Langone Health a recognized leader in delivering tDCS for patients at home. “Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” “Patients with MS often have difficulty accommodating daily visits to the clinic to receive treatment. Our remote model is a groundbreaking opportunity to reach more of these individuals.” Pilot Studies Test Efficacy As a non-invasive brain stimulation technique, tDCS applies mild direct currents to enhance or diminish neuronal excitability. “We have created a highly rigorous research protocol enabling home use of tDCS, which can be paired with cognitive or motor training to increase benefit,” says Charvet. The research team recently completed two large pivotal trials evaluating the home-based use of tDCS in MS. first trial enrolled 120 patients with MS to investigate the benefit of tDCS paired with cognitive training to reduce fatigue and improve cognitive functioning. The second trial enrolled 66 patients with MS to evaluate the benefit of tDCS paired with hand exercises to improve upper extremity motor functioning. Results from both studies are expected in the coming months. Additional, ongoing trials are investigating the use of home-based participation to further study the benefits of tDCS for patients with MS, as well as to evaluate its use in other conditions including clinical depression. Benefits of Additive Physical Therapy One current study , co-led by Dr. Charvet and postdoctoral fellow Giuseppina Pilloni, PhD , is evaluating home-based treatment of tDCS paired with a physical activity program to improve walking and functional mobility in patients with MS. Study participants are randomly assigned to an active or sham (placebo) tDCS combined with aerobic exercise using a seated pedal exerciser. Through the virtual program, participants can participate in the study from any location in the United States. “In theory, the repeated tDCS treatments can induce long-term potentiation phenomena, causing specific changes in synaptic efficacy of the targeted brain region, and promoting synergistic effects when paired with a training activity in patients with MS,” explains Charvet. Pathway to Clinical Care “While the tDCS is not currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, we are hopeful that this will change,” says Charvet. In the meantime, Charvet and her team have launched a clinical to offer at-home treatment sessions as innovative care, under video supervision through the NYU Langone patient app. This service expands access to virtually monitored, at-home tDCS to patients at home no matter where they are located. Dr. Charvet receives funding from the NIH (1R01NS112996-01A, R21NS101712-01), U.S. Department of Defense (W81XWH-17-1-0320), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA Healthcare GRANT13010404), and the National MS Society (RG-1803-30492). She is also a consultant for Johnson & Johnson, Ybrain, and Springer Healthcare. Leigh E. Charvet, PhD, is a professor of neurology and director of multiple sclerosis research at NYU Langone Health. Her research interests center on the use of noninvasive, remotely supervised therapies for symptoms of chronic neurologic and neuropsychiatric disorders. Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia With $31 million in funding from the NIH at NYU Langone Health will continue its large, diverse cohort study investigating how vascular risk factors contribute to dementia and other age-related disorders. Research on aging is becoming more critical, given that the number of adults older than 65 is set to exceed the number of children under 18 in the United States by 2034. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age.” “We are grateful for the opportunity to continue gathering rigorous evidence regarding modifiable risk factors in midlife and in older age that may improve dementia prevention efforts and health among even the most elderly adults,” says , founding director of the institute. The research is at the core of the Optimal Aging Institute’s mission of building a hub that connects world-leading, cross-disciplinary research teams dedicated to improving how people age. The goal of the institute, formed in 2023, is to catalyze studies that move from observational epidemiology to biobanking, biomarker discovery, molecular research, and clinical trials that inform risk factor prediction, prevention, intervention, and policy changes. The ARIC-NCS Study The cohort study, known as the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities–Neurocognitive Study (ARIC-NCS), is one of the longest-running cardiovascular studies and includes the longest followed group of Black participants for cognition. Dr. Coresh co-leads the ARIC-NCS alongside Dr. Thomas Mosley, director of the Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative Dementia (MIND) Center at the University of Mississippi Medical Center, and Dr. Rebecca Gottesman, chief of the Stroke, Cognition, and Neuroepidemiology Section at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. For more than 35 years, the project has tracked 15,792 individuals in four communities in Maryland, North Carolina, Mississippi, and Minnesota. The study has spurred numerous publications and is connected to over 2 million biobanked specimens. At the time of enrollment, individuals were between the ages of 45 and 65. Findings from the study have revealed that midlife vascular risk factors strongly predict dementia, frailty, and cognitive and physical decline occurring before age 85. Yet only cognitive status and physical function reliably predict dementia after 85, raising the need to better understand risk among the oldest group of old adults. “As human life expectancy increases, there is an urgent need to better understand risk among people aged 85 or older and discover biomarkers that may explain the changing risk associations at an older age for a wide range of diseases,” says Dr. Coresh. A Focus on Adults 85 and Over As part of the funding renewal, Dr. Coresh (who has been working with ARIC since 2002) and a team of investigators from 10 universities across the United States will follow approximately 4,000 of the original participants who remain active in the study and who are in their 80s and 90s—building on almost 40 years’ worth of health-related and biomarker data to be related with cognitive function, physical decline, and age-related disease. The renewal will broaden the scope of data collection by incorporating six types of wearable devices, allowing for the monitoring of sleep, physical activity, blood glucose, and heart health. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging.” Emphasis will be placed on race- and sex-specific analyses to better understand how underlying multimorbidity, vascular risk factors, and social determinants of health influence not only biomarker levels but also the timing of their alteration and impact on dementia. Of the participants who remain active in the study, 70 percent are female and 25 percent are Black. “The core principle of the Optimal Aging Institute is that aging-associated declines are not inevitable and should not be accepted as a normal part of aging,” says Dr. Coresh. On April 15, Dr. Coresh will moderate a special symposium to highlight an important topic at the intersection of vascular health and aging: “Controversies in Population Health: Tight blood pressure control—can we prevent dementia among older adults?” The event, co-sponsored by NYU Langone’s and the Optimal Aging Institute, will feature six renowned experts in the field and will showcase recent groundbreaking research on how treating hypertension may prevent dementia. The discussion is open to the public, but registration is required Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Compared to an open approach, minimally invasive surgery (either laparoscopic or robotic) is associated with reductions in length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. ADAPTED FROM: JSLS , 2022 Apr-Jun; 26(2): e2021.00092. While the use of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has expanded in many specialties, colon resection is still routinely performed as open surgery in much of the United States. In a retrospective study of more than 88,000 Vizient records , NYU Langone Health researchers found that, compared with open surgery, minimally invasive colon resection improves short-term outcomes, including length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes.” “Colon resections are regarded as major operations in comparison to other GI surgeries, and many surgeons have greeted minimally invasive colon surgery with caution,” says , a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. “There was some initial doubt around oncological colorectal surgery because of early concern regarding higher recurrence rates.” Another reason for surgeon hesitancy: The learning curve for MIS is steep. “You have to go through formal, structured training,” Dr. Brathwaite says. “Robotics is easier to learn, but the equipment is expensive. You can’t just go out and start doing it like you can laparoscopy.” As laparoscopic and robotic procedures increase in academic centers, surgical residents will be more likely to perform colon MIS, Dr. Brathwaite notes. The goal is to make sure as many people are trained in MIS as possible, including practicing surgeons. “Of course, we’re still teaching laparoscopy; we don’t have robots in every operating room,” he says. “And there are some patients that still require open surgery; for example, someone who is hemodynamically unstable. Residents work with us on these open cases and get simulation training as well.” Dr. Brathwaite hopes this study and others will shift thinking regarding open colon resection as the gold standard of care. “To make any sort of change like this, you have to keep showing data,” he says. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes, especially right around the episode of care.” Bariatric Surgery, General Surgery Collin E. M. Brathwaite, MD, MS, is a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. His research explores surgical considerations in bariatric, foregut and other complex surgeries, including issues related to surgical practice and training. Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Cigdem I. Akman, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed pediatric epileptologist Cigdem I. Akman, MD , recently joined to launch a dedicated Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Dr. Akman and pediatric neurosurgeon Eveline Teresa Hidalgo, MD , director of clinical research in pediatric neurosurgery, will co-lead the program to streamline and expand access to NYU Langone’s pediatric epilepsy surgical services. Here, Dr. Akman shares her plans for the program and her insights on emerging treatment modalities for child and adolescent epilepsy. She also discusses what she has learned over three decades about connecting with patients and their families. Dr. Akman, you started out practicing internal medicine in your native Turkey. How did you wind up as a pediatric epilepsy specialist in New York City? Dr. Akman: Originally, I wanted to study engineering, but my father encouraged me to go to medical school. I’m glad I listened to his advice. After an internship in internal medicine, I decided that my heart was in pediatrics, helping children and their caregivers. So I completed a residency training at Hacettepe University Children’s Hospital in Ankara, Turkey, where I was assigned to pediatric hematology. In 1995, I came to the United States for further training, and found myself strongly drawn to pediatric neurology. It happened the first time I witnessed a child—an 8-year-old girl—brought to the emergency room for involuntary movements, which were suspected to be seizures. Besides the intensity of her symptoms, what struck me was how terrifying her condition was for her parents and how eager they were to find answers. A few days later, an evaluation determined that she was having psychogenic non-epileptic events. This news was welcomed by her caregivers, though the therapeutic modalities required to treat her were complex. The incident opened my eyes to how critical it is to make the correct diagnosis—in this case, to distinguish epileptic seizures from symptoms that resemble them—and to provide counseling for patients’ families. That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me. “That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me.” Nearly three decades later, I feel privileged to join the superb epilepsy and child neurology team at NYU Langone. In fact, NYU Langone accepted me as a young trainee for an observership in pediatrics while I was still studying in Ankara, so I spent a month here before making the decision to move to the United States. I’m thrilled to be back. What’s your vision for the new surgical program at NYU Langone? I’ve always had a special place in my heart for epilepsy surgery, which can be remarkably effective in patients struggling with drug-resistant forms of the disease. Although this treatment modality has been around for more than six decades, it has remained underutilized and is still considered only as a last resort. The persistent misconceptions about this approach—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done to broaden adoption and improve access to comprehensive care for young patients. “The persistent misconceptions about [epilepsy surgery]—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done.” at NYU Langone has long been one of the largest medical and surgical treatment centers of its kind in the country—an accredited Level 4 epilepsy center, recognized for its expertise in providing the highest level of care. By launching a dedicated epilepsy surgery program within this framework, we aim to optimize coordination between the medical and surgical sides of our practice. The goal is to ensure that children living with drug-resistant epilepsy have access to comprehensive care, and to identify more rapidly those who could benefit from surgical intervention. To that end, I’ll act as a consultant for referring physicians to help facilitate a comprehensive evaluation process to assess patients’ eligibility. If a child is a candidate for surgery, Dr. Hidalgo and I will help our colleagues and the child’s caregivers to develop a treatment plan. I will also be part of a specialized clinical team in epilepsy to provide services for intracranial EEG monitoring, as well as functional mapping for cortical regions at bedside and in the operating room for patients who are potential candidates for surgery. In addition to surgery, what emerging therapeutic approaches are you particularly excited about? Traditional epilepsy surgery aims to remove the epileptic focus to achieve a seizure-free outcome. However, patients with drug-resistant epilepsy for whom surgery is not an option—whether because their epilepsy is nonfocal, or for other reasons—can choose from a growing number of approaches that may reduce the overall seizure burden and decrease the frequency of disabling seizures, thus improving quality of life. Neuromodulation is increasingly considered as an alternative treatment option for those individuals . Among the various forms of neuromodulation, vagus nerve stimulation is the best known and most established. But responsive neurostimulation and deep brain stimulation are emerging modalities to be considered for pediatric age groups. We’re also seeing progress in developing treatments for rare epilepsy syndromes that result from mutations affecting a single gene. Early-stage clinical trials are underway for gene therapies aimed at curing these disorders. It’s going to take time, but we’re inching closer and closer. Over your three decades as a pediatric epilepsy specialist, what insights have you gained about delivering excellent care? The rewarding thing about pediatric epilepsy is the impact you can make in decreasing seizure burden, preventing related complications, and allowing the child to grow and be independent. By choosing the right therapy, you can profoundly change the course of a young person’s life. I remember a 5-year-old presenting with seizures characterized by intermittent, severe shoulder pain. Initially, an epilepsy diagnosis was not considered because of the fact that seizures are not painful in general. This child had been admitted to the hospital numerous times for the same symptoms, and she was first evaluated for herpes zoster infection. EEG was later performed to rule out seizure, but it revealed no obvious correlation with her painful events. Her brain MRI was also unrevealing for any structural abnormality. Eventually, however, she received a diagnosis of drug-resistant focal epilepsy based on the persistent, stereotyped clinical events and emerging abnormalities on her repeat EEGs. “Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians.” The girl underwent intracranial EEG monitoring to determine whether she was a candidate for epilepsy surgery. Her evaluation demonstrated that her seizure focus was located 2 centimeters below the brain surface and localized to the sensory cortex, which resulted in her pain symptoms at the time of seizures. After removal of the epileptic cortex, she became seizure-free. She graduated from college a few years ago and is now studying to become a special education teacher. This is one of many experiences over the years that helped shape my approach as a clinician. Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians. Epilepsy treatment is not one-size-fits-all; it has to be tailored based on the child’s needs and diagnosis. As physicians, we must be careful listeners and observers to establish the right diagnosis, and we must remain open-minded toward treatments with which we may be unfamiliar or lack experience. It’s also important to understand that caregivers’ perception of treatment options may be affected by cultural, socioeconomic, and religious factors. So communication and transparency are critical elements of epilepsy care. We’ve got to take the time to describe the condition and treatment options thoroughly. When we don’t know the answers, we should be willing to say so. Although being assertive can be difficult, we have to remember that parents can feel overwhelmed by the details and by the responsibility of making tough choices on behalf of their children; it’s our job to help them make a decision. All this is critical for creating trust. Patients and family members are desperate for someone they can lean on during this difficult journey. Cigdem I. Akman, MD, is a clinical professor of neurology and medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Her research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of childhood-onset epilepsy. Snapshot AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead Unique speech decoding and synthesizing system could yield neural prostheses that mimic a patient’s own voice. New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds Heidi Schambra, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health The AI-generated COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score quantifies stroke motor impairment in under one minute using data from wearables and video. It strongly correlates with the Fugl-Meyer Assessment, the gold-standard for stroke sensorimotor evaluation, which takes upward of an hour to complete. COBRA is currently intended for research use only, but has the potential to support continuous and standardized monitoring of patient recovery. The AI framework may be ideal for applications with limited patient data, as the model was trained on healthy subjects and detects deviations from the norm. The evaluation of upper extremity impairment is key to guiding and adapting rehabilitation protocols that support recovery in patients with stroke. Current assessment tools, including the gold standard, the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), are time-consuming and require in-person administration by a trained clinician. To solve this problem, Heidi Schambra, MD , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine at NYU Langone Health; Carlos Fernandez-Granda, PhD , an associate professor of mathematics and data science at New York University; and their research teams developed a new framework. Based on artificial intelligence (AI) and data-driven, it automatically quantifies impairment. Their work was npj Digital Medicine “Think about having a system that effortlessly automates patient assessment and monitoring,” says Dr. Schambra. “It could provide real-time, continuous feedback, saving time and providing clinicians with actionable information.” Anomaly Detection The COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score was designed based on anomaly detection. The approach incorporates AI models trained exclusively on wearable sensor and video data from healthy individuals. “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected. If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected,” explains Dr. Schambra. “If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” The anomaly-detection framework is tailored to a specific medical condition, like stroke. This is achieved by training AI models to predict, for example, the upper body motions required for a healthy individual to raise a drinking glass with their arm. When the models are presented with data from a patient with arm impairments due to stroke, the average model confidence drops in proportion to severity, allowing for quantification. “When presented with data from patients with impairments, the model quantifies their deviation from the healthy population,” says Dr. Schambra. Moving Beyond the Gold Standard According to Dr. Schambra, the FMA scale remains the gold standard, but it’s far from perfect. In fact, the tool is the current “rate-limiting step” in the evaluation of upper body impairment after stroke. “The FMA takes specialized training in order to administer,” says Dr. Schambra. “It can take up to an hour to complete, which few busy therapists have the time for. After three hours of rehab each day, patients are also very tired. We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” “We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” In their recent publication, the research teams showed that the COBRA score, computed automatically in under one minute, strongly correlates with the FMA. They compared both assessments across several movements and activities, including arranging objects on a table or shelf, putting on eyeglasses, brushing hair and teeth, and eating. Although the system isn’t ready for full-scale clinical deployment, it’s an exciting first step. “This technology is a way to support therapists in their delivery of rehabilitation training,” says Dr. Schambra. “They could use the COBRA scores to better focus on problem areas and to track what’s working and what’s not. It will enable us to deliver therapy in a more standardized fashion.” For next steps, the researchers will prioritize refining the framework, moving beyond proof of concept. The team plans to expand their testing of the COBRA framework in hundreds of stroke patients to ensure its generalizability. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals.” Moreover, the framework could be suitable for applications where it is difficult to obtain large-scale databases of patients with different degrees of impairment or severity, since it only requires data from a healthy cohort of moderate size, Dr. Schambra explains. For instance, the team is applying the framework to quantify knee osteoarthritis severity using MRI scans. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals,” notes Dr. Schambra. Vascular Neurology, Neurology Heidi Schambra, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine and director of research strategy in the Department of Neurology. Her research interests include the development of new interventions to help patients recover from stroke. Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry Charles Marmar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. , the Peter H. Schub Professor of , where he is chair, sat down with Marc K. Siegel, MD , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the current mental health crisis and the future of psychiatry treatment. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation ; the extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Dr. Siegel: We’re having a mental health crisis in this country. Why? And what can we do about it? Dr. Marmar: It’s very complicated. I don’t think it’s entirely a crisis. I think it’s partially an awakening. I don’t view it through the lens of a sickness in society. It is true that there are some unique stressors. It is true, for example, that the challenges faced by Gen Z, by young people in middle school, high school, and early college now, are because of the inordinate amount of time they spend on devices. I was discussing this with my family. They went to see MJ: The Musical this weekend for Mother’s Day. And my 14-year-old granddaughters were saying that they’ve deeply identified with the anxiety and stress that Michael Jackson felt as a public figure, because they are exposed in social media as public figures. They’re not Michael Jackson, they’re not creative geniuses, but they empathize deeply with the fate of people who have no privacy and whose image can be damaged or destroyed through the flick of a button. So that does account for new forms of social anxiety, but with it comes a much deeper social awareness. “The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized and part of society and part of primary care.” When you and I were children, if we didn’t feel well, we went to see the school nurse. What [children now] do when they don’t feel well is they go to speak to the school psychologist. The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized, and part of society and part of primary care. You’re a leading expert on post-traumatic stress disorder. What’s going on in the world right now in terms of post-traumatic stress, and what can we learn from it? Well, the world has always been troubled. It’s not clear to me that rates of trauma exposure are necessarily higher now than they were. I mean, after all, if you go back through historical periods when we lived more in tribal structures, we were very prone to illness and predatory forces of animals. We had very little protection against powerful acts of nature. We’ve always lived in a dangerous, uncontrollable, and unpredictable world. Most of us have seen the Oppenheimer movie. The threat of nuclear war is the threat of existential threat to all of humanity. There are new threats, for sure, but 2 percent of the entire world’s population was killed during World War II. So, we’ve always lived in very dangerous times. You’re working on precision medicine, which is applying personalized solutions using genetic understandings of variations and differences. How does that apply to post-traumatic stress disorder? Can artificial intelligence help you? We use it in precision medicine, or at least we use a somewhat more limited version of it, machine learning. So in our precision medicine studies of post-traumatic stress, we ascertain blood-brain imaging studies, cognitive studies, and others. We may have 2 million features to look at in each individual. And we use machine learning programs like Random Forest [classifiers] to find which of those features carries a signal to help us use drug A versus drug B. So that’s a simpler-use AI. “ At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars.” At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars. I’ve seen an example of one being developed by [the U.S. government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, in which you sit down with this AI avatar and you tell them how you’re feeling. I did that, and they responded to me. My initial experience of the avatar’s response was that it was about as good as an empathic therapist. That s pretty good. That’s not bad. And by the way, think about how stigma-reducing that is. If you’re an active-duty military personnel, who would you rather talk to, Charlie Marmar or talk to an avatar? What about the way that you’re going to apply precision medicine in a family therapy unit or in a clinic? How is it going to be applied in psychiatry? One thing we need to be able to do is we need to be pragmatic. Millions of molecular features on each person in routine clinical care will have to be targeted. Ideally, what we would like to do is find those features in blood that are reliable enough to inform diagnosis and guide treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol, drug abuse, personality challenges, and so on, and have them be simple, affordable, and accessible enough that you, as an excellent primary care doctor, can bake them into your annual blood panel. So, you’ll get lipids, you’ll get liver-function tests, renal-function tests, and you’ll get psychiatry precision medicine tests. And they will just be part of a routine exam. And when you send your patient to the lab, we’ll get those marked. What tests am I going to do in the blood? I’m going to check serotonin levels, dopamine levels? We’re working on it. If I didn’t hold a patent on it, I would talk to you about it. What does the future hold for alcohol use disorder? First to say about alcohol use disorder, it’s very profound. It’s very prevalent. It takes a huge number of lives every year. It is horribly disorganizing to a person’s life, health, and career. And there are terrible tragedies from alcohol use disorder. We have new treatments, of course. We have [Alcoholics Anonymous], AA, and we have some therapies that are very helpful, but we have FDA-approved medications. We have three of them right now: acamprosate, disulfiram, and naltrexone. We have new ones in development. And there is great hope that we will be able to have precision medicine. I’m doing a large precision-medicine clinical trial to determine for whom topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is the best treatment for stress and alcohol. Where are we heading in mental health? We’re heading to, first, a major societal change in which mental health challenges such as stress, anxiety, and depression are considered part of life in the way infection and physical injury are considered part of life. They’re baked into mainstream medicine, and they will no longer carry stigma and shame. And children who are being anxious will go to their school counselor and not go to their school nurse with headaches and backaches and other difficulties, which are a proxy for their emotional problems. So it’s going to be normalized. It’s going to be part of primary care. One out of three of your patients in your primary care practice every day has a primary or secondary mental health problem, and it’ll be part of everyday medicine, and people will feel comfortable to disclose it. Second, we’re going to have safe and specific treatments, not just psychotherapy, not just medications, but direct ways to modulate the circuits in the brain to relieve these conditions. Charles R. Marmar, MD, is the Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Langone. Dr. Marmar’s research has led to breakthroughs in our understanding of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through the study of police officers, soldiers in combat, veterans, and civilians who have been exposed to sudden, usually life-threatening events. He serves as director of NYU Langone’s PTSD Research Program. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Every year, hundreds of physicians take the board exam for the Certificate of Added Qualification in Sports Medicine (CAQSM). Yet resources to help them prepare for the test have long been scarce. at NYU Langone Health is helping to fill that gap with a webinar series titled The New Metro: Sports Medicine Board Review Course. Launched in 2021 by Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA , medical director of Rusk’s sports rehabilitation program, and colleagues, the online offering is one of just a handful of CAQSM board review courses in the United States—and the only one that features presentations by leading experts from multiple academic institutions. Initially conducted only in real time, the course recently added an on-demand component so that participants across the country can access lecture content whenever they choose. Here, Dr. Portugal discusses The New Metro’s unique approach, and how it was influenced by his own experience as an athlete and a clinician. Dr. Portugal, please give us an overview of Rusk Rehabilitation’s sports medicine board review course. To begin with, what does it cover, and how is it structured? Dr. Portugal: The New Metro is a three-day course, held live online each June, that succinctly reviews high-yield board exam topics for the CAQSM. It features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts from institutions across metropolitan New York and beyond. Current primary care and PM&R [physical medicine and rehabilitation] sports medicine fellows are invited to attend, as are recertifying sports medicine physicians who plan to take the annual exam. “The New Metro features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts.” The content is based on a blueprint provided by the American Board of Family Medicine, which administers the exam, and the goal is to prepare participants for everything the test might throw at them. By the end, clinicians should be able to describe diagnostic protocols, treatment options, and return-to-activity guidelines for sport-related conditions and injuries; the management of a wide range of medical emergencies; the indications for use and mechanism of action of therapeutic drugs; and the impacts of performance-enhancing substances and drugs of abuse. They’ll be ready to answer questions about sport-specific joint kinematics and risk factors for injury, as well as the responsibilities of a team physician. This course is unique not only in its subject matter but in its multi-institutional roster of instructors. What led you to design it that way? In 2021, I was talking with Surein Theivakumar, DO —who at the time was one of my sports medicine fellows—about ways our program could collaborate with other sports medicine programs throughout New York City. It struck us that there were very few options nationwide for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives. “It struck us that there were very few options for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives.” Initially, we ran The New Metro entirely as live webinars. But last year, we added on-demand access to the lectures and PowerPoint materials. The obvious benefit is that it allows participants to study on their own schedule. Another advantage is that they can pause the videos. It can be challenging to absorb so much content all at once. This way, if there’s a topic people want to pay extra attention to, they can stop, look up more information, and replay the segment as often as necessary. [Recordings from this year’s course can be accessed online until November 30.] How do you choose your lecturers? We rely on our extensive professional network of physician educators, and on the recommendations from program directors of participating fellowship programs from within the New York City region. Our speakers have included , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone and head team physician of U.S. Men’s Ski Jumping; Dean W. Padavan, MD , clinical assistant professor of medicine at Thomas Jefferson University, associate program director of the Atlantic Sports Health primary care sports medicine fellowship, and associate internist for the New York Jets; and Russell F. Camhi, DO , a primary care sports medicine physician with Northwell Health Orthopedic Institute and the head team physician for Hofstra University. We also offer lectures and Q&A sessions led by the course directors, who include myself and several Rusk Rehabilitation colleagues: Dr. Theivakumar, clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and associate director of the PM&R residency program; , clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine and a physician for the U.S. Ski team; Haruki Ishii, MD , clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine; and Jina Libby, DO, former NYU Langone sports medicine fellow and current sports medicine physician at Penn State Health—State College. You’re the director of NYU Langone’s sports medicine fellowship program. Does the course play a role in that pedagogical effort? Absolutely. Besides preparing our fellows for the board exam, the course helps them gain broader insights and experience. Our current fellows are always invited to serve as course co-directors. That often provides their first exposure to the behind-the-scenes workings of continuing medical education, and what the process entails. In addition, several prior fellows have opted to continue as course instructors after their training—some of them after they’ve become faculty members at other institutions. You’re an athlete as well as a physician. How does this course reflect your own experience in both of those realms? I was a student–athlete in high school and at Fordham University. Like many of my peers, I sustained multiple injuries and often underwent rehabilitation through physical therapy. Serendipitously, faulty advice from my father—an ear, nose, and throat surgeon—to keep pushing through my pain motivated me to find my own answers to my ailments. This quest ultimately led me to become a sports medicine physiatrist. “We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field.” My experience in multiple sports when I was younger, and an active martial artist now, gives me an understanding of what athletes are looking to achieve—to push their bodies to the limit, and to get back in the game as soon as possible. And my experience as a sports medicine doctor helps me understand how important it is to educate physicians in this relatively new subspecialty. The American Medical Society for Sports Medicine was founded in 1991, and it still has only about 5,000 members. There aren’t enough physicians to meet the needs of athletes on the sidelines, whether they’re professionals or ordinary gym-goers. And in our aging society, there’s a huge need for doctors to help keep people active throughout their lifespan. I hope this course will become a collaborative model for others across the country. We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field. Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA, is an assistant professor of rehabilitation, medical director of Sports Medicine Rehabilitation, and director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. His research interests center on improved rehabilitation therapies for sports-related spinal and musculoskeletal conditions. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Jinpu Li, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Chronic pain impacts up to one-third of children and adolescents worldwide , but remains underdiagnosed and undertreated. This is due in part to an insufficient understanding of the root causes of pain and a shortage of interdisciplinary teams specializing in its treatment. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, Jinpu Li, MD , NYU Langone Health’s director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation, prioritizes a multipronged approach to pediatric pain. Here, he explains his approach and the importance of integrated care in effectively managing chronic pain in young patients. Dr. Li, you emphasize education as a central element of your approach to chronic pain treatment. Can you expand on that? Dr. Li: By the time I see many of my patients, they have seen multiple specialists in other fields. And I’ve found that one of the most important things I give my patients as we begin their treatment is the simple acknowledgment that their pain exists and is very real. So I start by explaining the pathophysiological basis of pain. “I use the analogy of ‘camera’ and ‘snapshot.’ The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain.” I use the analogy of “camera” and “snapshot.” The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain. Normally, once the tissue heals, the brain deletes the snapshot, resolving the pain. But for some people, due to various reasons, the brain holds on to the snapshot and does not delete it, causing ongoing pain despite there being no tissue injury. Additionally, sometimes the brain is hypersensitive, taking snapshots of normal physiological functions, leading to pain perception without any actual injury. Many patients feel relieved after hearing this. They feel heard and understood. This is the first step of healing. What types of conditions do children typically present with in your practice? We see children and adolescents with a wide variety of pain-associated conditions, including musculoskeletal and spinal pain, chronic postsurgical and post-trauma pain, chronic secondary visceral pain, chronic neuropathic pain, and chronic headache and orofacial pain. Examples of these conditions are chronic pain related to sports injuries, herniated disc, facet-mediated back pain, neuropathic pain related to nerve injuries, and pain associated with joint hypermobility. We also frequently see primary pain disorders, in which the pain is not caused by an underlying disease or injury. Examples include complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) and amplified musculoskeletal pain syndrome (AMPS), which is similar to fibromyalgia and involves heightened pain perception. What is your general approach to treating these patients? Our approach is team-oriented and highly tailored to meet the needs of each patient and their family. We begin with a thorough intake appointment that assesses the patient’s complete medical history, psychological comorbidities, and functional status. We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics. Working closely with physical therapists, occupational therapists, social workers, and other specialists, we develop a comprehensive treatment plan that aligns with the patient’s and family’s specific needs and goals. “We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics.” The treatment plan typically includes a combination of medical interventions—such as oral medications, various muscle, joint and spinal injections, imaging-guided nerve blocks, and minimally invasive surgical procedures like implantable neuromodulation devices—alongside physical and occupational therapies and pain psychology. Can you tell us more about how pain psychology plays a role in your team approach to patient care? Pain management truly integrates both body and mind, as psychological factors can both contribute to and result from pain. For instance, a child with a history of abuse is at high risk for developing chronic pain. And children who live with pain often then have concomitant diagnoses of anxiety or depression. The anticipation of pain can lead to avoidant and maladaptive behaviors, as the child wants to do anything to avoid the onset of pain. This is why we collaborate closely with psychologists and social workers. They treat the entire family, providing cognitive–behavioral techniques to help children improve their coping skills, along with mindfulness practices and other support for parents and family members. What are some of the latest advancements in pain medicine that you might incorporate into a care plan? One of the exciting advancements in pain management is the emergence of neuromodulation. I am closely following the research on using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in managing chronic pain. We started using neuromodulation techniques like peripheral nerve stimulation and spinal cord stimulation for certain cases of refractory chronic pain in adolescents. “I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain.” Importantly, pain management often requires trying several treatment approaches to find what works. For instance, for the past year, I have followed a patient who presented with erythromelalgia, which causes pain and burning in the lower extremities. The patient was experiencing frequent emergency room visits and hospital admissions for pain crises. After attempting a combination of medications and periodic nerve block treatments without significant improvement, we implanted a neuromodulation device, a peripheral nerve stimulator, which has meaningfully reduced his pain. His pain still fluctuates, but we were able to keep him out of the emergency room for the past 10 months. Finally, what inspired you to specialize in both pain management and pediatric rehabilitation medicine? My interest stemmed from observing the profound impact pain has on a patient’s function and quality of life during my pediatric rehabilitation medicine training. We see many patients who suffer from chronic pain, which profoundly impacts their overall wellbeing, both physically and emotionally. I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Pain Management, Pediatric Rehabilitation Jinpu Li, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, he specializes in multidisciplinary approaches to managing chronic pain in children and adolescents. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption New study links psilocybin to a major decline in heavy drinking and complete cessation in nearly half of participants. IMAGE SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Excessive alcohol use kills roughly 95,000 Americans every year. In a new study in JAMA Psychiatry , NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators found that two doses of psilocybin derived from psychedelic mushrooms, in combination with multiple psychotherapy sessions, reduced heavy drinking by 83 percent on average among participants with alcohol dependence. By contrast, the double-blind placebo-controlled trial of 93 men and women—the first of its kind—found that participants given two doses of an antihistamine placebo reduced their heavy drinking by 51 percent. Eight months after the first dose, 48 percent of those given psilocybin stopped drinking altogether—double the rate for the placebo group. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage,” says , director of NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine and senior author of the study. “Our findings strongly suggest that psilocybin therapy is a promising means of treating alcohol use disorder, a complex disease that has proven notoriously difficult to manage.” All participants received up to 12 psychotherapy sessions during the study and reported the percentage of heavy drinking days during weeks 5 to 36. Hair and fingernail samples helped confirm the presence or absence of alcohol use. All participants, including those initially treated with placebos, were offered a third session that included psilocybin. The research team plans to conduct a larger, multicenter trial under the FDA’s Investigational New Drug Application sponsored by the nonprofit life science company B.More Although more research is needed to confirm the drug’s effects and clarify appropriate dosing, Dr. Bogenschutz says the results so far suggest it may aid other disorders. “This approach may prove useful in treating addiction to other drugs such nicotine, cocaine, and opioids.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts in psychiatry joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2024 annual meeting in New York City. The theme is “Confronting Addiction from Prevention to Recovery.” View full conference information and abstract titles Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Poster Psychiatric Sequelae of Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome: A Literature Review and New Case of ODS-Induced Mania NYU Langone Presenter : Hager Koraym Saturday, May 4, 2024 Presidential Session The Leading Edge of Psilocybin Therapeutics: Psychiatric and Existential Distress in Advanced Cancer, Alcohol Use Disorder, and Major Depression Stephen Ross, MD : 10:30AM–12:00PM : Rooms 3D04, 3D09, Javits Center Sunday, May 5 General Session Advances in Molecular Biomarkers for PTSD Diagnosis, Risk, and Complications Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD : 8:00–9:30AM : Room 1E13, Javits Center Tuesday, May 7 Words Will Never Hurt Me: Examining the Stigma of Addiction NYU Langone Discussant Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD : Room 1E10, Javits Center Wednesday, May 8 Advancing Precision Medicine for Alcohol Use Disorders NYU Langone Speaker : 3:45–5:15PM : Room 1E08, Javits Center Classifying Glioma in Minutes New AI-driven screening system could transform the molecular diagnosis of diffuse gliomas. New research from neurosurgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health’s , unveils DeepGlioma , a deep learning–based screening system that could allow clinicians to accurately predict diagnostic mutations associated with diffuse gliomas without the need for conventional sequencing methods. With the capacity to achieve an accuracy of 93 percent in less than 90 seconds, the artificial intelligence (AI)–based tool enables rapid molecular subtyping to occur in the operating room. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes.” “DeepGlioma is a game changer for patients,” Dr. Orringer says. “Instead of waiting weeks to know what kind of glioma a patient has and how to treat it, we get that information in a matter of minutes. This expedites care and allows the surgeon in the operating room to tailor the surgical approach.” NYU Langone was involved in testing the diagnostic screening tool and was one of the first clinical sites in the country to use the technology. Trained on Label-Free Imaging Molecular classification is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of diffuse gliomas, enabling accurate prognostication and personalized treatment. “Access to molecular diagnostic testing remains variable for brain tumors, which complicates prognosis determination, surgical decision-making, resection goals, and selection of chemoradiation regimens,” says Dr. Orringer. “Without real-time genetic testing, it’s not possible to know how aggressive we should be surgically and whether a patient is likely to respond to conventional chemotherapy and radiation.” In designing the system, the researchers trained the model using a multimodal dataset that included stimulated Raman histology (SRH) , a breakthrough in optics that allows for imaging of fresh tissue without sectioning or staining. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” “Using SRH images only, DeepGlioma can determine molecular classification in less than two minutes without the need for tissue processing or human interpretation,” Dr. Orringer explains. “Our platform for DeepGlioma is self-contained and can be rolled into any operating room; all that is needed is a plug.” Streamlining Molecular Classification While the system can scale to an arbitrary number of diagnostic mutations, Dr. Orringer notes the focus is on the major molecular diagnostic alterations used by the World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System (WHO CNS5) classification scheme: IDH mutations, 1p19q chromosome co-deletion, and ATRX loss. Remarkably, the new system achieved a mean molecular classification accuracy of 93.3 percent, ranging from 91.0 to 94.7 percent, depending on the mutation subtype. Across various institutions, the performance of the system generalized well with distinct patient populations, clinical presentations, as well as personnel and infrastructure, Dr. Orringer says, helping providers to define surgical goals with a better-calibrated risk–benefit analysis. Ensuring Access As they employ DeepGlioma for more and more cases, Dr. Orringer and his team are utilizing the tool to expedite the delivery of precision surgical and medical care. “Having a fully autonomous system that is separate from the traditional pathology infrastructure allows patients from lower-resource settings to access effective treatments sooner,” Dr. Orringer says. “Some commercial detection assays are not universally accessible across the country.” He and his team are also developing the system behind DeepGlioma for other cancers. “The use of optical histology and AI to diagnose cancer will have implications for the way that many types of cancers are treated,” Dr. Orringer says. “People with cancer who receive treatment in a setting that has access to the most rapid and readily available molecular diagnostics have the potential to get a higher standard of care.” Neurosurgery, Skull Base Surgery Daniel A. Orringer, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and pathology. His clinical interest lies in skull base surgery and surgical management of brain tumors. His research interests include bioinformatics, neuroimaging, and novel applications of artificial intelligence in medicine. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A blend of traditional education methods and simulation teaches essential skills for virtual neurology evaluation. Neil A. Busis, MD A team of neurologists at NYU Langone Health has crafted a first-of-its-kind training program to instruct neurology residents in performing virtual exams. The unique program includes a simulation component, enabling trainees to rehearse with an actor portraying a patient they will likely see in clinical practice. “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills, which will become increasingly important as the field evolves,” says , an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency “Our curriculum provides much-needed opportunities for future neurologists to hone their telemedicine skills.” Since its launch in 2020, the three-year teleneurology program has educated at least 68 neurology residents. A recent study in Neurology: Education details the program’s effectiveness and discusses strategies for adjusting hands-on examination methods for virtual settings. Adapting to the Virtual Setting While virtual healthcare technology has existed in some form for decades, physicians still receive little formal training in its use. “There are some suggested guidelines for teaching teleneurology, though no standard approach among programs,” says Dr. Kurzweil, who served as senior author on the new study. “This is a new frontier. We’re learning alongside trainees what will ensure the best outcomes for learners and patients.” The researchers found that neurology residents preferred various methods for teleneurology training, such as didactics with slides, live demonstrations, simulated experiences, and starting with live patients to reading materials or articles. Simulation Cements Proper Techniques Unlike many other training courses that emphasize telehealth communication skills, the NYU Grossman School of Medicine curriculum’s unique simulation component features a virtual exam. In these 10-minute sessions, residents are expected to diagnose their “patients” and discuss a treatment plan. Actors play “patients,” mimicking the symptoms of meralgia paresthetica, which results from injury to a nerve. “Since we often see patients with meralgia paresthetica, which is commonly misdiagnosed, we decided this was a practical teaching opportunity for virtual exams,” says study co-author , a clinical professor of neurology who also serves as director of the telehealth program in neurology. “It’s also much easier for actors to portray sensory loss than to accurately replicate motor loss found with other conditions.” “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” During the simulated exam, trainees are graded on hard skills such as accuracy and thoroughness. Soft skills, or “webside manner,” like maintaining eye contact, are also evaluated as these behaviors, the authors say, can be lost during the shift from in-person exams to remote ones. Additionally, trainees are required to guide the on-screen “patient” in adjusting their camera so their whole body is visible, and in resolving basic technical issues like unmuting. “Overcoming challenges like poor lighting in the patient’s home, which are realities in daily practice that can limit our ability to evaluate the patient accurately, are an essential skill,” says Dr. Busis. Since the trainees cannot touch the patients in a virtual encounter, Dr. Busis stressed how they must be able to coach patients to conduct self-assessments. “Instructing patients to perform a self-assessment requires excellent verbal communication and creativity—if you don’t have the conventional in-office tools, what’s a reasonable workaround?” Curriculum Increases Comfort with Virtual Exams The new report surveyed trainees with no prior education in virtual care and no previous experience with teleneurology before the program. The authors found that comfort with virtual exams improved from an average score of 2.8 out of 5 (5 representing maximum confidence) to 3.8 out of 5 after the first year. Interest in telehealth grew as well, increasing from an average score of 3.5 out of 5 (5 representing the highest interest) to 4.3 out of 5. The Future of Teleneurology Training Telehealth has become an integral part of medical practice, particularly in neurology clinics where a blend of in-person and remote encounters are emerging as the standard for routine care . According to a recent report from Dr. Kurzweil, Dr. Busis, and colleagues, both patients and neurologists agree that the vast majority— over 90 percent —of teleneurology encounters are effective. Multimodal learning with a simulation component appears to be the key to success in teleneurology training. The team, alongside other colleagues, has added a telestroke simulation to the curriculum for senior residents and may also incorporate new neurologic symptoms like headache, weakness, and dizziness into the simulated encounters. Neil A. Busis, MD, is a clinical professor and associate chair of technology and innovation in the Department of Neurology, and director of NYU Langone’s telehealth program in neurology. His research interests include telehealth, health information technology (HIT), coding, documentation and billing for medical services and procedures, burnout, career satisfaction, and physician wellbeing. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet This month’s case presentation describes a patient with multiple urological complaints, including erectile dysfunction, who experienced significant improvements after adopting a healthy plant-based diet. As urologists, we have the power not only to help our patients with their genitourinary issues but also to optimize their overall health and longevity. Counseling patients about eating more healthy plant-based food is an important way to promote cardiovascular and metabolic health, which has also been associated with better erectile and urinary function—a win-win. Urologists may not have the time, resources, or expertise to directly support patients with a change in nutrition. However, building collaborations with qualified professionals and providing referrals are essential ways to deliver additional patient support. Below, we share how we counseled the patient on healthy plant-based eating. We also outline the resources and referral networks we use to connect patients with additional information and expert support. The patient was on tadalafil to manage his erectile dysfunction and Flomax for urinary symptoms. He expressed confidence in making a lifestyle change and was referred to a health coach and dietitian. After several months on a vegan diet, he discontinued both medications, lost weight, and improved his hypertension. Patients can be directed to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine Plant Powered Metro New York , and other resources for further support in adopting a plant-based diet. Patient Case The patient, a 69-year-old male with a history of hypertension and being overweight, presented to the urology clinic with erectile dysfunction and lower urinary tract symptoms. He was taking tadalafil (20 mg, as needed) and Flomax (0.4 mg, daily) for these conditions. The patient had read about a lower risk of erectile dysfunction with a plant-based diet and was interested in adopting the diet. He expressed motivation to change his diet within the next month and scored his confidence in making a lifestyle change as a 9 out of 10. Because the patient was ready to change his diet, we discussed his goals and what resources he would need. We referred the patient to a health coach and dietitian experienced with plant-based nutrition and provided a list of resources. During subsequent visits, we reviewed his action plan, discussing progress and barriers. After successfully adopting a vegan diet for several months, the patient was able to discontinue medication for erections and urinary symptoms. In addition, at the most recent follow-up, he had lost 11 pounds and his blood pressure had improved (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s health status and medication usage before and after adopting a plant-based diet. Source: NYU Langone Health These health improvements provided satisfaction and motivation for him to continue the plant-based diet. Plant-based diets are popular due to the many benefits for health and the environment. According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, vegetarian and vegan diets are nutritionally adequate at all stages of life and provide health benefits. Indeed, there is a large body of literature supporting the role of plant-based diets in the prevention and management of chronic diseases, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease. This is particularly germane to erectile function, often called the “canary in the coal mine” (meaning an early warning sign) for cardiovascular disease. Several recent studies have looked at the role of plant-based dietary patterns in erectile function. For example, using data from a survey performed in the United States, Carto et al. reported that greater consumption of a healthy plant-based diet (e.g., fruits, vegetables, grains, and legumes) was associated with a significantly lower risk of erectile dysfunction after adjusting for other factors. Similar results were reported by Yang et al. in a large cohort of male health professionals, in which greater consumption of healthy plant-based food was associated with a lower risk of erectile dysfunction. With regard to lower urinary tract symptoms, a study from Australia reported that a “vegetable” dietary pattern was associated with significantly lower odds of surgically treated benign prostatic hyperplasia. Even among patients with a history of prostate cancer treated by radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy, consuming more plant-based food and less animal-based food was associated with significantly better scores for posttreatment erectile function and urinary quality of life. National guidelines recommend notifying patients that erectile dysfunction is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and recommending lifestyle modifications like diet and physical activity. Healthful behavior change is an individualized process that evolves over time. In the field of lifestyle medicine, the transtheoretical model is often used to conceptualize the stages of change, which includes precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, maintence, and termination. The goal is to identify each patient’s readiness to make a change in a particular behavior, such as their diet, and to help them develop an action plan if they are considering a change before the next visit. A helpful strategy is for the patient to set SMART goals (“Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and Timebound”) for the desired behavior. To direct patients to more information, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine website offers numerous handouts and recipe guides for plant-based nutrition, as well as a directory to locate nearby health professionals with expertise in plant-based nutrition. There are also many online programs with dietitians and health coaches who can provide more hands-on support for patients, such as the 21-Day Plant Powered Jumpstart program , offered virtually by Plant Powered Metro New York. 1. Melina V, et al. J Acad Nutr Diet . 2016;116(12):1970-1980. 2. Yannas D, et al. Int J Impot Res . 2024;36(4):452–453. 3. Carto C, et al. . 2022;161:76–82. 4. Yang H, et al. BJU Int . 2022;130(4):514–521. 5. Ambrosini GL, et al. . 2008;101(7):853–860. 6. Loeb S, et al. . 2024;130(9):1618–1628. 7. Burnett AL, et al. J Urol . 2018 Sept;200(3):633–641. 8. Prochaska JO, Velicer WF. Am J Health Promot . 1997;12(1):38–48. Stacy Loeb, MD Stacy Loeb, MD, a professor of urology and population health, is a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center and a noted expert in prostate cancer. Her research interests include early detection, active surveillance, the importance of lifestyle, and the impact of social media on decision-making. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis A CT scan of the patient's UTUC. Source: NYU Langone Health. Patient interest in kidney-sparing treatment options for upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is growing. At NYU Langone Health, we have seen excellent success with one such treatment, chemoablation with UGN-101 (Jelmyto), and treat a large number of patients with the agent. In this Case of the Month, we present an elderly patient with a low-grade UTUC obstructing her only remaining kidney. Over a decade earlier, she had undergone a nephroureterectomy for the disease, but now faced a new primary tumor threatening her renal function and raising the possibility of dialysis. Hoping to avoid such an outcome, she sought alternatives to surgery that could preserve her quality of life. Her case underscores the important role of innovative therapies that provide patients the chance to spare their kidney. A 91-year-old female with a history of UTUC and prior left nephroureterectomy presented with a tumor obstructing her right ureter. She underwent endoscopic resection to preserve her remaining kidney, followed by UGN-101 induction to reduce recurrence risk. She remains recurrence-free over 18 months later. At NYU Langone, UGN-101 is widely used, with around 10 percent of cases involving patients with a single kidney. The 91-year-old female patient was healthy and functional, with a history of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC). Over 11 years ago, she underwent a left nephroureterectomy for this disease. Unfortunately, due to the recurrent manner of UTUC and the metachronous occurrence, she presented now with a low-grade tumor obstructing her remaining kidney. The tumor was located in the ureter on the right side (Figure 1) and she was experiencing a slight decline in her renal function. She wanted to avoid dialysis, which would be necessary if her kidney were to be removed. Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s upper tract urothelial carcinoma, located in her right ureter. We performed a ureteroscopy with laser resection of the ureteral tumor and complete visual removal of the mass. A ureteral stent was left in place after surgery to prevent any ureteral stricture from the area of the laser ablation. The patient had a strong understanding of the disease and recognized the risk of recurrence to be upward of 60 percent or even higher in some reports. The patient expressed ongoing worry about her age, which made further surgical resections and ablations less ideal. At this point, we discussed Jelmyto, a reverse thermal hydrogel installation of mitomycin. The gel is liquid at low temperatures, allowing it to be easily instilled via a catheter, and it solidifies at body temperature, enabling prolonged local drug exposure to the tumor site. It is typically administered once weekly for six weeks. In the first experiences with this formulation in a real-world setting, the complete response rate of the cancer after a complete endoscopic ablation was over 75 percent in patients with low-grade UTUC. Long-term data is not yet published, but at the American Urological Association’s 2024 annual meeting, an abstract was presented on this topic: in those patients who had a complete response after UGN-101 induction, the median survival was not reached, and recurrence-free survival at 24 months was over 85 percent. For our elderly patient seeking options to improve her overall quality of life, the results have been very similar. After complete endoscopic tumor removal and induction UGN-101, she has remained recurrence-free for over 18 months. UGN-101 was approved in early 2020, and since then its use for low-grade UTUC has continued to grow in the United States. At NYU Langone, we offer it alongside other new therapies for patients with all disease states. The experience has been positive and has been widely adopted by all urological oncologists and endourologists within the Department of Urology . Roughly 10 percent of our UGN-101 treatments are for patients with a single remaining kidney. In the case presented, a patient with one kidney sought to avoid a rigorous dialysis regimen in her remaining years. Tumor resection made this possible, while UGN-101 helped address her concerns about recurrence. To support informed treatment decisions, the American Urological Association released its first UTUC guidelines in 2023. The resource allows for risk stratification and the judicious use of aggressive treatments for high-risk disease and less-aggressive therapies and interventions for low-risk disease. Woldu SL, et al. Urol Oncol . 2023;41(3):147.e15-147.e21. Feldman AS, et al. . 2024;211(5S):e891. Coleman JA, et al. . 2023;209(6):1071-1081. Katie S. Murray, DO Katie S. Murray, DO, is a professor of urology and chief of the urology service at Bellevue Hospital Center. Her clinical practice focuses on prostate, testicular, bladder, kidney and ureter cancers. TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst MRI of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health We recently made an uncommon diagnosis: a recurrent midline prostatic cyst causing partial ejaculatory duct obstruction and infertility. The patient had severe oligoasthenozoospermia and reported ejaculatory symptoms of delayed, uncomfortable, and low-volume ejaculate. While cyst aspiration at another center temporarily alleviated the ejaculatory symptoms, they quickly returned. At our office, transrectal sonography confirmed the cyst’s recurrence, prompting a successful transurethral resection of the ejaculatory ducts (TURED). This Case of the Month highlights the rare but treatable nature of midline prostatic cysts as a cause of male infertility, with properly performed TURED offering significant symptom relief and improved fertility outcomes. The 28-year-old male presented with fertility concerns and ejaculatory symptoms, with a history of an aspirated midline prostatic cyst and bilateral varicoceles. Given that cyst aspiration is not definitive, and varicoceles could not explain all symptoms, we suspected cyst recurrence, confirmed by imaging. TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy were performed without complication. Ejaculatory symptoms resolved immediately postsurgery; semen analysis at 10 months showed sustained success, with normal ejaculate volume and near-normal semen parameters. The 28-year-old male presented to our clinic for evaluation and management of ejaculatory pain and male infertility. He complained of chronic low-ejaculate volume and post-ejaculatory pain. Previous evaluation for male fertility concerns and painful ejaculation had shown low sperm count and motility, as well as abnormal morphology. A prostate MRI one year prior to his visit revealed a 19-cc prostate with a midline cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm × 1.3 cm (Figure 1). The patient had undergone cyst aspiration under ultrasound guidance. This resulted in a transient improvement in ejaculate volume and resolution of peri-ejaculatory pain. Within three months, the patient developed recurrent symptoms with low-ejaculate volume and pain after ejaculation. Figure 1. MRI of the patient’s prostate with a midline prostate cyst measuring 1.9 cm × 1.5 cm x 1.3 cm (arrow). Source: NYU Langone Health Medical Examination Physical Exam—Genitourinary Findings Penis Normal circumcised appearance, no lesions or palpable plaques. Glans without hyperemia, normal meatus. Epididymis Non-tender bilaterally. No evidence of fullness. Testis Palpable in dependent scrotum bilaterally symmetric. Both slightly small (15 to 20 cc), no masses palpable. Vas Deferens Palpable bilaterally. Left grade 3 varicocele. Right grade 1 varicocele Labs Results Semen Analysis Volume 1.4 mL (low; no collection issues) pH 8.2 Concentration 4 million/cc (low Motility 14% (low) Morphology 2% (low) Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) 4.8 (normal) Testosterone 679 ng/dl (normal) Diagnosis and Management Varicoceles may result in abnormal semen parameters. However, the resurgence of painful and low-volume ejaculate suggested a recurrence (refilling) of the prostatic cyst as the cause of the patient’s symptoms, as cyst aspiration is typically not definitive. After transrectal sonography confirmed recurrence of the previously aspirated midline prostatic cyst (Figure 2), the patient was diagnosed with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction due to midline prostatic cyst, along with bilateral varicoceles. Figure 2. Transrectal sonogram showing a recurrence of the patient’s prostatic cyst. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient underwent TURED and bilateral microsurgical varicocelectomy. The verumontanum, which had a typical appearance that was full and bulbous, was resected using pure cutting current using a conventional resectoscope. Flow of milky-appearing fluid from the open ducts was seen after the resection. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before and after TURED are shown below (Figures 3 and 4). Figure 3. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum before TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Figure 4. Intraoperative appearance of the verumontanum after TURED. Source: NYU Langone Health Following the procedure, the patient had complete resolution of the ejaculatory pain with increased ejaculate volume. He remained asymptomatic at a 10-month follow up. Semen analysis showed a normal volume ejaculate (2.5 cc) with improved Kruger morphology, normal concentration, and sperm motility. This case demonstrates how TURED can offer rapid and lasting symptom relief for patients with ejaculatory duct obstruction. TURED is minimally invasive and highly effective, addressing both fertility concerns as well as discomfort related to ejaculation and urination. The procedure provides durable outcomes, making it a rewarding option for patients. Ejaculatory duct obstruction is a rare cause of male infertility that is diagnosed in 1 to 5 percent of infertile men. The condition may be congenital or acquired, with the latter typically due to post-inflammatory scar formation in the prostate or seminal vesicle calculi. Congenital causes are attributed to ejaculatory duct atresia or stenosis and utricular cysts. Utricular cysts have been historically referred to as Müllerian (paramesonephric) duct cysts. However, immunohistochemical studies have shown evidence that the utricle is not a Müllerian duct remnant and instead has a distinct origin from the dorsal wall of the urogenital sinus. Cases of partial ejaculatory duct obstruction may progress to complete obstruction and diagnosis may be challenging, requiring a high index of suspicion. Although vasography can provide a definitive diagnosis, transrectal sonography with a 7 MHz probe alone is sufficient to establish the diagnosis, as it is less invasive and highly reliable. Our patient met two of the three typical indications criteria for intervention and treatment (infertility, ejaculatory pain, and hematospermia). Initially described for treatment of ejaculatory duct stenosis more than 50 years ago, TURED is performed using standard or pediatric resectoscopes under general or regional anesthesia using cutting current to minimize scarring and restenosis of the ejaculatory ducts. Since many patients undergoing the procedure are diagnosed during infertility workup and are younger, with smaller prostates, special attention should be paid to avoid bladder neck, rectal, or sphincteric injuries when resecting the verumontanum. Although use of the O’Connor drape for seminal vesicle palpation has been described, I have not found this to be necessary in the vast majority of cases. Ejaculation may resume in one week. Urethral catheterization for 24 hours after the procedure is optional. In my experience, relief of ejaculatory pain is usually immediate, but it may take a few months to achieve maximal ejaculatory volumes and improved semen parameters. The vast majority of appropriately selected patients with low volume azoospermia due to ejaculatory duct obstruction will have a dramatic improvement in ejaculatory volume and semen parameters, but 10 to 15 percent may convert to normal volume azoospermia due to more proximal or epididymal obstruction. Patients with partial ejaculatory duct obstruction will similarly see significantly improved ejaculate volumes, though a small percentage may become azoospermic due to postoperative ejaculatory duct fibrosis and are well advised to cryopreserve sperm prior to the procedure. Pryor JP, Hendry WF. Fertil Steril . 1991;56(4):725-730. Shapiro E, et al. . 2004;172(4 Pt 2):1753-1756. Modgil V, et al. Nat Rev Urol . 2016;13(1):13-20. Belker AM, Steinbock GS. . 1990;144(2 Pt 1):356-358. Xu B, et al. . 2011;108(2):263-266. Urology, Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Hossein Sadeghi-Nejad, MD, is a professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology. Dual fellowship-trained in male infertility and sexual dysfunction, he specializes in treating infertility, erectile dysfunction, Peyronie’s disease, testosterone deficiency, and urinary sytmptoms caused by an enlarged prostate. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions Chicago, IL. Source: Getty Images Our researchers and clinicians in cardiovascular disease will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association 2024 Scientific Sessions in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty. Saturday, November 16 Moderated Digital Poster Fitbit-Measured Physical Activity Is Inversely Associated with Incident Atrial Fibrillation Among All of US Patients (Abstract ) NYU Langone Presenters: Souptik Barua, PhD 10:00–10:05AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 15 Oral Abstract Session Sex Differences in Psychosocial Factors and Angina in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease Anais Hausvater, MD 10:30–10:40AM S103BC Presentation Dissecting the Cellular and Molecular Immune Interactions in Coronary Artery Disease 10:30–10:42AM S105ABC Demystifying Chest Pain in Women Harmony R. Reynolds, MD 1:48–1:57PM Main Event II Sunday, November 17 Discussion: Next Directions in Interventional Science Binita Shah, MD NYU Langone Moderator: Sunil Rao, MD 9:09–9:11AM S103D Suicide and Self-Harm with GLP-1 Receptor Agonists: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials 10:20–10:25AM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 13 [Learn more about this new study by Dr. Heffron and team .] Clinical Studies and Trials to Reduce Cardiovascular Risks from Air Pollution: Where Are We Now? NYU Langone Speaker: Jonathan Newman, MD, MPH 3:45–4:00PM S401D PFAS: What They Are and Why Your Heart Cares Sharine L. Wittkopp, MD, PhD 4:00–4:15PM Monday, November 18 SARS-CoV-2 Infection Triggers Pro-atherogenic Inflammatory Response in Human Coronary Vessels 8:05–8:23AM What To Do When Myocardial Injury After Noncardiac Surgery (MINS) Happens Nathaniel R. Smilowitz, MD 9:00–9:05AM Impact of 2022 AHA/ACC/HFSA Heart Failure Guideline Value Statement Publication on Medicare Drug Coverage Policies Amrita Mukhopadhyay, MD 12:00–12:05PM Zone 3, Moderated Digital Poster 12 Healthcare Leadership Bridging the Care Gap: A Role for Geriatric Outpatient Clinics Geriatricians are uniquely skilled in managing the complex illnesses, comorbidities, and related conditions that occur in older adults, as well as navigating care for common cognitive, functional, and psychosocial issues. Yet despite the increasing median age of the United States population, the workforce of physicians trained in geriatrics is expected to decrease over the next decade. Recognizing this problem, the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone Health is launching an ambulatory consultative clinic to combat the growing shortage of geriatricians. Complementing the work of NYU Langone’s , the new clinic will focus on expanding access to geriatric services for those living in the community. “At our new clinic, the aim is to address complex issues in an approachable, holistic manner.” James M. Lai, MD “Lengthy wait times and delays frustrate patients, their caregivers, and providers,” says , associate director of clinical services for the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care , and leader of the project. “In addition, a single inpatient admission is rarely sufficient to resolve every issue. At our new clinic, the aim is to approach complex issues in an approachable, holistic manner.” Needs Going Unmet Unmet care needs for older adults include frailty, falls, polypharmacy, cognitive disability, and memory loss. Owing to complexity and time constraints, primary care providers often have difficulty in managing these conditions, leaving patients without proper support. “Reduced access to specialized geriatric care can lead to unwanted health outcomes and increased morbidity,” says Dr. Lai. “Reduced access to specialized geriatric care can lead to unwanted health outcomes and increased morbidity.” Accordingly, a key focus of the new clinic will be comprehensive geriatric assessment, which incorporates prognosis, quality of life, life expectancy, and each patient’s personal values into the decision-making process. “By focusing on the patient’s goals and desires, we can better assess the benefits and risks of interventions, like medications or surgery,” Dr. Lai explains. Moreover, Dr. Lai emphasizes that these assessments do not always lead to the initiation of a new prescription or surgical intervention, but may involve deprescribing or forgoing surgery to avoid postoperative complications. For example, while a surgeon may deem some older patients good candidates for surgery, their cognitive or functional state may preclude them from achieving successful postoperative rehabilitation. Better Outcomes Through Collaboration Concerning access to care, Dr. Lai acknowledges that it remains a problem nationwide. He believes that providing specialized geriatric care in outpatient settings could help to expand access. With the future in mind, Dr. Lai envisions the potential for pioneering and innovative collaborations with NYU Langone’s subspecialist divisions and Through this synergy, he hopes to develop novel outpatient-based rehabilitation protocols for older adults who have cognitive impairment, imbalance, poor vision, urinary incontinence, and swallowing issues. “Possible new partnerships might help to close the knowledge gaps in geriatric rehabilitation,” Dr. Lai says, “and may lead to improvements in healthcare provision for this high-risk population.” James M. Lai, MD, is associate director of clinical services for the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care. An internist, he specializes in treating Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, and memory loss. Our doctors are located in Manhattan. 212-598-2391 At NYU Langone’s Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries, our experts work together to provide advanced treatment for adults and children who have a brachial plexus injury . Combining our decades of surgical expertise and leading-edge surgical technologies, we treat patients from around the United States and the globe. A brachial plexus injury is damage to the major nerves that cross the junction between the neck and the arm. These injuries occur most commonly as a result of motor vehicle accidents, but they can also result from other traumas or injuries, such as birth injuries. Mild brachial plexus injuries may heal with time, while more complex injuries may require surgery to avoid loss of movement or function in the shoulder, arm, or hand. We partner with you to ensure the best possible recovery after a brachial plexus injury. Each patient is evaluated by our team of specialists that includes orthopedic surgeons, hand and wrist surgeons, physical therapists, occupational therapists, and neurologists. Our experts tailor an individualized treatment plan for you, which may include physical therapy, occupational therapy, or surgery. If surgery is recommended, recent advances in microsurgical techniques allow our doctors to offer new and effective approaches for brachial plexus injuries. We can perform nerve reconstruction microsurgery to reduce pain and restore sensation and motor movements in the arm, elbow, wrist, and hand. We also perform procedures including tendon and muscle transfers, contracture release, and other reconstruction techniques. Our Therapy Program In many cases, our patients are able to avoid surgery after following our well-designed therapeutic interventions. Our therapy program, which includes experts from , aims to help patients maintain muscle strength and the full range of motion in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand joints. We also prevent muscle loss through electrical stimulation and help ease pain through transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). Advanced imaging, occupational therapy rooms, and surgical and recovery facilities are all provided through the Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries. We also offer for those who would prefer not to travel or who would rather receive care in the comfort of their own home. Our surgeons treat brachial plexus injuries in adults and children. Andrew E. Price 877-224-3201 The Center for Ankle Arthritis at is committed to providing a full range of treatment options for people with . Patients can often find pain relief and an improvement in their symptoms with nonsurgical treatments, such as physical therapy, bracing, orthotics, or injections. is needed, our orthopedic foot and ankle surgeons offer cutting-edge reconstructive procedures. If you have mild or moderate arthritis, minimally invasive arthroscopic debridement to remove damaged tissue and cartilage in your ankle may be an option. We were the first hospital in the greater New York area to offer the Scandinavian Total Ankle Replacement system, or STAR™. This prosthesis may be an option for some people with advanced arthritis to provide both pain relief and preserve motion. Its benefits include quicker recovery time and better long-term success rates than earlier ankle replacement procedures. For those who are not a candidate for ankle replacement, you may consider ankle fusion—in which a surgeon fastens the ends of damaged bones together, so they heal and fuse—as a good option to provide pain relief and increased function. Our team’s extensive experience ensures the best diagnosis and treatment plan for your ankle arthritis. Lew Schon Raymond Walls Mapping the Molecular Mechanisms of Stress & Depression Carla Nasca, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health Major depressive disorder affects an estimated 21 million adults in the United States every year. While the highly complex mental condition is influenced by the integration of multiple genetic, epigenetic, metabolic, and environmental factors, one thing is clear: stress in early life can play a critical role in triggering the disorder. Here, Carla Nasca, PhD , assistant professor of psychiatry and of neuroscience and physiology at NYU Langone Health, discusses her work on mitochondrial mechanisms of epigenetic function for the regulation of brain plasticity in response to stress. The research, she believes, may have identified a new biological marker for depression and, potentially, a much-needed new precision-medicine strategy How does stress change the brain on a structural and molecular level? Dr. Nasca: We know from decades of work that stress can lead to imbalances in neural structures—some serving cognition, decision-making, anxiety, and mood. These alterations to the neural structures are usually adaptive responses, but in some people they lead to psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, and they need to be treated. The imbalances, in turn, affect systemic physiology via neural, immunological, and metabolic mediators. In the lab, we discovered a metabolic mediator of this response to stress known as LAC, or acetyl-L-carnitine. LAC is a mitochondrial metabolite, which is best known for its role in fatty acid oxidation. Our lab and work from other groups has shown that LAC also serves as a metabolite that regulates epigenetic function. Why is epigenetic regulation so important? Think of a book. To read the words inside, we need to open the book. Similarly, epigenetic regulation acts as the key that unlocks chromatin structure, allowing DNA to be read and genes to be expressed. “Mitochondria produce a substantial proportion of the cell’s substrate for epigenetic regulation.” Our group and others have shown that mitochondria produce a substantial proportion of the cell’s substrate for epigenetic regulation. This means that there’s integration between the mitochondria and nuclei of a cell to allow epigenetic regulation and the expression of genes that are important for synaptic plasticity. What effect does LAC have in rodent models of stress? We find that administration of LAC in rodents leads to adaptive responses to stress. When we boost certain mitochondrial pathways in rodent models, we boost the ability of cells to produce LAC, and we see a corresponding change in epigenetic regulation that ameliorates the response to stress. When the pathway is suppressed and cells produce less LAC, there are maladaptive responses to stress. In animals, we can observe these changes at the level of dendrites, key structures of neurons that allow for cell-to-cell communication. We find that in rodent models of chronic, prolonged stress, dendrites in the hippocampus as well as other areas of the brain are shorter as compared to mice that did not experience stress. We can ameliorate these changes in dendritic plasticity, what we call structural plasticity, by administering LAC. An illustration of a neuron. Source: Getty Images In our rodent models of chronic stress, we also observe that the animals start with lower levels of LAC than control mice. When we administer LAC to fill this gap, they showed a rapid antidepressant response, which takes only 3 days to occur, versus other drugs that require 14 days to show an antidepressant response. How might your results inform clinical practice? We’ve started translating these findings to humans and are seeing similar relationships between LAC levels, stress, and depression as to what we’ve observed in rodents. In many of our papers and unpublished work, we find that childhood trauma, in the form of emotional neglect and emotional abuse, is linked to aberrant mitochondrial metabolism. Indeed, people with major depressive disorder who also report the highest levels of childhood trauma—life stress events in childhood—have the lowest levels of LAC . Their levels are much lower than in control subjects. “People with major depressive disorder who also report the highest levels of childhood trauma have the lowest levels of LAC.” Another important finding is that these same individuals with the lowest levels of LAC had a diagnosis of treatment-resistant depression. This was important to us because it suggested that LAC could be an effective antidepressant by itself and also when co-administered with other drugs to potentially give patients the capacity to respond to other antidepressant medications. But we need to conduct additional studies in humans to better understand the molecular mechanisms of this signaling pathway before patients take any LAC. We replicated our initial finding, that antidepressant nonresponders had the lowest LAC levels, in two cohorts. Now there are multiple papers from other investigators showing the deficiency of LAC as a potential biomarker for depression. So, you’re moving toward a potential clinical trial? Yes, absolutely. The direction we’re moving toward is precision medicine. We want to define and characterize the phenotype of treatment-resistant depression genetically, epigenetically, and metabolically, and look to see if patients respond to LAC alone or as a supplementation strategy. Depression is such a complex phenomenon; can you speak to the need to integrate multiple factors to better understand how patients vary in their response to antidepressants? That’s the spirit of precision medicine. The integration of multiple biological pathways can be an opportunity for us to better define and better characterize the various ways in which major depressive disorder can present. It will not be LAC alone that cures depression. But if we can identify additional biological factors beyond LAC that are involved in this signaling from mitochondria to cell nuclei and in the regulation of genes important for brain plasticity, we can characterize those people who will benefit from targeted treatments. To hear more about Dr. Nasca’s research on biomarkers for depression, check out this episode of Insights on Psychiatry, a podcast from NYU Langone. Carla Nasca, PhD, is an assistant professor of psychiatry and of neuroscience and physiology. Her research focuses on mitochondrial mechanisms of epigenetic function in the stress response system and main central nervous system diseases. Top Honors Awarded to Cardiovascular Researcher for Work on Inflammation Kathryn J. Moore, PhD, receiving the Grand Prix scientifique from the Institute de France. Source: NYU Langone Health This past June, the Institut de France co-awarded its Grand Prize in Science (Grand Prix scientifique) to Kathryn J. Moore, PhD , director of NYU Langone Health’s Cardiovascular Research Center . The award—the largest of its kind in cardiovascular research—honored Dr. Moore for her pioneering research on how the innate immune system recognizes excess cholesterol in the body and responds by inducing the chronic inflammation that drives atherosclerosis. Here, Dr. Moore reflects on the prestigious prize, her groundbreaking discoveries that led to it, and what excites her about the future of cardiovascular research. Dr. Moore, what have you learned about how macrophages can trigger the kind of chronic inflammation that drives atherosclerosis? Dr. Moore: In atherosclerosis, macrophages enter the artery wall to clear low-density lipoproteins (LDL) that accumulate due to hypercholesterolemia. But once the macrophages ingest the LDL, they can become overloaded with cholesterol and trapped in the vessel wall—a good deed gone bad. The accumulating macrophages call in more immune cells to help resolve the issue, but this backfires, forming chronic inflammation. It’s that chronic, low-grade inflammation that drives plaque formation in the arteries over decades, leading to atherosclerosis. “Once the macrophages ingest the LDL, they can become overloaded with cholesterol and trapped in the vessel wall—a good deed gone bad.” My work focuses on trying to understand what makes beneficial inflammation turn chronic, what the key pathways are, and whether we can reverse them. The Grand Prix scientifique was awarded specifically for my discovery of how macrophages recognize LDL , which is by using the same receptors designed to detect and defend against pathogens. By engaging these defense receptors, LDL triggers the production of potent pro-inflammatory molecules and inflammation. What about your work on RNA molecules—how are they involved in cholesterol metabolism and inflammation? My lab discovered that microRNAs can repress the expression of genes required for the macrophage to rid itself of the excess cholesterol. By targeting these microRNAs, we enhanced cholesterol efflux from the macrophages, which allowed the cells to leave the artery wall and reduced inflammation in the plaque. Illustration of microRNA. Source: Getty Images I’m also really interested in long non-coding RNAs , many of which are not conserved between humans and preclinical animal models. For years, drug development was based on studies in animal models. But when the drugs were tested in humans, researchers found different results or they didn’t pan out. Understanding that there can be a layer of transcriptional control or genome organization in humans that is not conserved in other animals can offer tremendous insights. For the last 10 years, my lab has been studying how these human-specific long non-coding RNAs regulate biological processes, whether it’s cholesterol metabolism or inflammation in atherosclerosis. What are you most excited about in inflammation-related research, and what do you want to tackle next? Over the past five years, we’ve seen a revolution in the technologies available to us for research. We are now able to look at tissues at the single-cell level and use techniques like spatial transcriptomics to map cellular gene expression within tissue. It’s giving us unprecedented insight into the complexity of the tissues and the interactions between different cell types within them. For our work on inflammation in the plaque, we are using these technologies to interrogate unique cell types to understand the ones that contribute to plaque progression versus those types that contribute to regression. We want to know how cells are communicating in these different states, and we’re looking at gene expression profiles between the cells to understand what that communication might look like. What do you see as the next challenge to further improving treatments for cardiovascular disease? Lipid-lowering therapies have been highly successful at reducing cardiovascular risk, but many patients still go on to have a heart attack. Even people whose LDL has been lowered very dramatically continue to be at risk of having a cardiac event. “We need complementary therapies to lipid-lowering, and targeting inflammation in the plaque is one area that’s thought to hold promise.” Because of this, we need complementary therapies to lipid-lowering, and targeting inflammation in the plaque is one area that’s thought to hold promise. We seek to develop novel therapies that can convert chronic inflammation into self-resolving inflammation by targeting pathways that hinder its resolution. Finally, what does it mean for you to earn this prestigious award? It’s a tremendous honor to receive this prize, which celebrates the outstanding contributions to cardiovascular research that have been made by luminaries in my field. I have truly flourished in the collaborative and supportive environment at NYU Langone. It has taken my science to a different level. I’ve also been very lucky to work with many talented postdocs and graduate students. Really, this award recognizes the entire lab, past and present. I would not have made these discoveries without my incredible team. Cardiology, Cell Biology Kathryn J. Moore, PhD, is Jean and David Blechman Professor of Cardiology and a professor of cell biology. Her research centers around immune responses to cardiovascular disease, particularly plaque progression in atherosclerosis. AI-Generated Responses to Patient Questions on Thyroid Disease Are Accurate & Empathetic LLMs could be used to help clinicians respond to patient messages, potentially reducing workload. In a pilot study, one of the first of its kind to evaluate LLM performance in thyroid disease, LLM responses to patient questions were more accurate, complete, empathetic, and consistent than online physician responses. In order to reach clinical care, clinicians would be expected to review responses before they reach patients to reduce the risk of the LLM providing inaccurate information. Burnout among physicians is being fueled partly by patient electronic messaging. Recognizing this problem, a team of experts from NYU Langone Health came together to study whether large language models (LLMs), powered by artificial intelligence (AI), could be used to assist in responding to patient questions and reduce the clinician workload—focusing specifically on thyroid disease. At the 2024 American Association of Endocrine Surgeons (AAES) meeting, Kepal N. Patel, MD , presented data supporting this idea. Not only were LLM responses to patient questions about thyroid disease accurate, they were more accurate, complete, empathetic, and consistent than physician responses. “After ten hours of surgery, the last thing I want is to have to manually respond to 35 electronic messages.” “After ten hours of surgery, the last thing I want is to have to manually respond to 35 electronic messages,” says Dr. Patel, chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery at NYU Langone. “As a busy surgeon, my goal is to be efficient with my administrative workload so I can focus on my patients and provide the best care.” Endocrine surgery fellow Rajam Raghunathan, MD, served as lead author on the study and was awarded the Jon Van Heerden Award for Best Paper at the 2024 AAES meeting. The study is one of the first to evaluate LLM responses in thyroid disease. Testing the LLMs The study involved randomly selecting 33 patient questions about thyroid cancer or thyroid disease from the Reddit website’s AskDocs section, an online health community where users can post questions about personal medical conditions and receive answers from verified physicians. The researchers then tested the ability of two different LLMs, ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4, to respond to these questions, comparing the LLM-generated responses with the verified physician responses from AskDocs. All responses were anonymized and scored for accuracy, quality, and empathy using a four-point Likert scale by seven blinded providers. Of the selected questions, 39 percent focused on thyroid nodules, 30 percent concerned thyroid cancer or cancer worry, 24 percent addressed hypo/hyperthyroidism or goiter concerns, and 6 percent involved postoperative complications related to thyroid surgery. Analyzing the Responses The team highlighted that when interpreting differences in quality ratings, the overall organization of the response must be considered, explaining that LLM responses often include a summary with bullet points, addressing the concerns raised by the patient, then structuring a response thereafter. In a sample electronic exchange about a high-risk TR5 thyroid nodule found on an ultrasound, a patient inquired about cancer risk. In this case, the online physician responded by encouraging the patient to get a biopsy for evaluation and potential treatment. However, the response lacked comprehensiveness, empathy, and synchronicity. Verified-Physician Response A TR5 nodule is considered relatively high-risk nodule and the risk of cancer is higher in these nodules. Either way, the nodule is small and they are recommending biopsy. I’d encourage you to get the biopsy done to further evaluate as while there’s an association, biopsy remains better at predicting actual risk in many cases. Depending on the pathology, they may recommend either half the thyroid be taken out, or the entire thing. In someone who is hyperthyroid there may be benefit to total thyroidectomy. This physician response was analyzed in the study. In contrast, the LLM responses were more comprehensive, empathetic, and synchronous, evidenced by their length, style, and structure. ChatGPT-3.5 A TI-RADS 5 (TR5) nodule, especially one that is taller than wide and solid, can be concerning, but it doesn’t automatically mean it’s cancerous. The risk of malignancy is higher with TR5 nodules compared to lower TI-RADS categories. However, many TR5 nodules still turn out to be benign. The best way to determine whether the nodule is cancerous or not is through a fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy. This procedure involves taking a small sample of tissue from the nodule and analyzing it for cancerous cells. The FNA results will provide more accurate information about the nodule’s nature. It’s essential to follow your healthcare provider’s recommendations and proceed with the FNA biopsy to get a definitive diagnosis. Thyroid cancer is generally treatable, especially when detected early, so timely evaluation and appropriate management are crucial. Your healthcare team will guide you through the necessary steps based on the biopsy results. GPT-4 A TR5 (TIRADS 5) classification on thyroid ultrasound indicates a high suspicion for malignancy, but it’s important to remember that not all TR5 nodules are cancerous. The classification is based on certain ultrasound characteristics, like being hypoechoic and taller-than-wide, which are more commonly associated with thyroid cancer. However, the definitive diagnosis of cancer can only be made through a biopsy. In your case, the presence of hyperthyroidism symptoms and a significant weight loss, along with the ultrasound findings, warrant a thorough evaluation. The recommended fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of the hypoechoic nodule will provide more definitive information. FNA is a key tool in determining the nature of thyroid nodules, especially those with suspicious features. It’s understandable to be concerned about the possibility of cancer, but keep in mind that even in TR5 nodules, there are instances where the biopsy results come back benign. The outcome of the biopsy will guide the next steps in terms of treatment and management. Stay in close communication with your healthcare provider to discuss the biopsy results and the appropriate course of action based on those findings. Your medical team will consider your overall health, symptoms, and the biopsy results to provide the best care plan for you. These responses from ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4 were analyzed in the study. Some experts have raised concerns about LLMs providing dangerous and false information in response to patient questions. Although 13 percent of online physician responses were flagged as containing dangerous or false information, this only occurred with 1.3 percent and 0.4 percent of responses for ChatGPT-3.5 and GPT-4, respectively. “The results were striking. While LLMs or AI are not at a stage where they can replace us, they have a lot to offer in helping us perform better.” “The results were striking,” says Dr. Suh, associate vice chair of surgical innovation and principal investigator of the study. “While LLMs or AI are not at a stage where they can replace us, they have a lot to offer in helping us perform better.” For next steps, the researchers will prioritize the use of LLMs as a means to interact with patients seeking more information on thyroid nodules, thyroid cancer, and postoperative care instructions. Across all metrics, LLMs showed the best performance when answering questions related to these topics, Dr. Patel explains. “We see this technology playing a critical role in helping physicians respond to patients promptly and effectively,” says Dr. Patel. “The surgeon will still review the responses before they are shared with the patient, ensuring there is minimal concern that the LLM is providing false or inaccurate information.” Before broader implementation, the real-world safety, efficiency, and accessibility of LLMs need to be established. Future studies will test the ability of LLMs to appropriately triage and escalate patient safety concerns, as well as fact-check information and references. Endocrine Surgery, Head & Neck Surgery Kepal N. Patel, MD, is chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery and director of the Thyroid Cancer Interdisciplinary Program. He specializes in surgical treatment of thyroid and parathyroid conditions. His research focuses on the link between Hashimoto’s disease and thyroid cancer. Cardiac Sarcoidosis Care Lung Sarcoidosis Care Skin Sarcoidosis Care Neurosarcoidosis Care Care for Skin Sarcoidosis , our dermatologists specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of . This inflammatory disorder, also known as cutaneous sarcoidosis, is diagnosed in about one-third of people who have sarcoidosis, and in the United States, most often affects Black women. To make an appointment with one of our dermatologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call 212-263-5889 Skin sarcoidosis causes abnormal clumps of immune cells, called granulomas, to form on the skin. They may appear as rashes, raised patches, or red or purple bumps, usually on the shins and ankles. In some cases, skin sarcoidosis can be more severe and cause sores or lesions on the face, which can affect your appearance and day-to-day life. Symptoms of skin sarcoidosis sometimes mimic those of other dermatologic conditions. To diagnose skin sarcoidosis, our dermatologists conduct a skin exam and may recommend a biopsy. Treatment for skin sarcoidosis includes that are applied directly to the skin and others that are injected locally, on the affected area. Our doctors may also prescribe oral or injectable medications. We work with patients and multidisciplinary experts within the Sarcoidosis Program to develop an approach and care plan that is best suited to each patient’s needs. Because sarcoidosis can affect multiple organs in addition to the skin, our dermatologists work in collaboration with pulmonologists, cardiologists, rheumatologists, nephrologists, neurologists, and other specialists to develop a comprehensive treatment plan for you. can accommodate appointments for patients who need to be seen urgently. If you’re unable to find an appointment with one of our providers using online scheduling, please call us at We have convenient locations in Manhattan. Care on Demand providers at NYU Langone offer prompt, top-quality primary care to adults who do not already have a primary care physician. We see patients on a walk-in basis—no appointment needed. No. 1 for Quality Care NYU Langone is ranked No. 1 of 115 participating comprehensive academic medical centers. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. Providers at Care on Demand treat a variety of common symptoms and conditions , from aches and pains to the , that do not require urgent services. Our Care on Demand locations are in convenient residential neighborhoods that are just a walk or subway ride away. Learn more about our Care on Demand services at our Upper East Side and West Village locations. Our providers take a thorough medical history and conduct a physical exam that may include measuring your blood pressure, temperature, and other vital signs. In addition, we test for viral illnesses like COVID-19 and the flu, or we may take a urine sample to check for a Our providers may write you a prescription or provide you with instructions for further care at home. Prompt Referrals for Follow-Up Care Our Care on Demand providers also ensure that you receive the follow-up care you need through our referral service. After your visit, we can schedule a follow-up appointment with one of our exceptional NYU Langone primary care doctors or specialists for further treatment or preventive care. Doctors throughout our expansive network of ambulatory care locations are dedicated to creating personalized treatment plans for all your health concerns. Our referral service gets you in the door faster with our top providers. Care on Demand Hours of Operation Care on Demand primary care services are available 8:00AM to 8:00PM, Monday through Friday; and 8:00AM to 6:00PM on Saturday. We are closed Sunday. For Emergencies If you or a loved one experiences a medical emergency, please call 911. Outside of these hours, please check out our Services We Do Not Offer Care on Demand is designed for patients who need same day access to primary care. If you are an existing NYU Langone patient and cannot see your primary care doctor right away, you can use Virtual Urgent Care for convenient access to a provider, often the same day, or schedule a Care on Demand does not offer . Please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location for medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others. NYU Langone has hundreds of primary care doctors who can partner with you to address your healthcare needs. We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens. NYU Langone general surgeons provide world-class care for a wide range of conditions, from the most common to the highly challenging and complex. Our team offers surgical solutions for conditions affecting the abdomen and digestive tract, including the esophagus, stomach, gallbladder, liver, appendix, and pancreas, as well as diseases of the adrenal gland. NYU Langone Health has the highest quality of care and patient safety rankings of any healthcare organization in the country. We perform surgeries in Manhattan at NYU Langone’s , and in Brooklyn at NYU Langone Health is ranked No. 1 in patient safety and quality in the United States, reflecting our commitment to patient care. Our general surgeons are highly skilled in open, minimally invasive, and robotic-assisted surgery. Whenever appropriate, they use bloodless techniques to minimize the use of donor blood products. The team also has surgical expertise in the treatment of benign and malignant conditions, including tumors of the stomach and colon. These are some of the procedures we perform most often: appendectomy complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction fundoplasty or fundoplication, to treat gallbladder removal inguinal and umbilical hernia repair paraesophageal hernia repair upper endoscopy wound care, including debridement Our surgeons are part of renowned NYU Langone specialty centers and programs, including the Abdominal Core Health Program Bloodless Medicine and Surgery Program Our Surgeons Our doctors specialize in surgical treatment for a wide range of conditions. Mary Ann Hopkins Megan Jenkins Howard G. Liang Angeleke Saridakis Acute Care Surgeon Loic S. Tchokouani Medical dermatologists at NYU Langone specialize in treating a wide range of autoimmune connective tissue diseases that affect the skin. Our dermatologists have extensive training and experience in treating these rare conditions and are recognized as experts in this domain, frequently giving lectures on these conditions around the world. We develop individualized treatment plans for each of our patients, taking into consideration underlying medical conditions and other potential causes of autoimmune disease. Our team works closely with other medical specialists to ensure an all-inclusive treatment strategy. Our dermatologists are actively involved in scientific research, often working collaboratively with other medical specialists in these endeavors, ensuring thorough knowledge of the latest innovative therapies to treat autoimmune conditions. Skin Autoimmune Connective Tissue Diseases We Treat Our dermatologists are highly experienced in treating different autoimmune conditions affecting the skin. We specialize in treating a variety of autoimmune conditions affecting the skin, including the following: morphea and localized scleroderma systemic sclerosis eosinophilic fasciitis cutaneous sarcoidosis pyoderma gangrenosum cutaneous vasculitis polyarteritis nodosa Our Autoimmune Connective Tissue Disease Team Our doctors work together and collaborate with other NYU Langone specialists to provide the highest-quality treatment for autoimmune conditions affecting the skin. Alisa N. Femia, MD Dermatology, Skin Autoimmune Disorders Daniel R. Mazori, MD Andrea L. Neimann, MD Allergic & Contact Dermatology Services NYU Langone dermatologists have extensive experience and expertise in diagnosing , a form of skin inflammation that results from direct contact of a substance with the skin’s surface. Contact dermatitis often appears as a red, scaly rash and occasionally as blisters, crusting, and swelling. It can cause the skin to be itchy and even painful. To treat contact dermatitis, our doctors may prescribe oral medications or steroid creams. There are two types of contact dermatitis: irritant and allergic. Irritant contact dermatitis, the most common form, typically occurs after exposure to chemicals that irritate the skin. Allergic contact dermatitis occurs when a substance triggers an allergic immune response. Substances that commonly cause allergic contact dermatitis include metals, fragrances, plants, dyes, preservatives, latex and synthetic rubber, and other chemicals found in everyday items. Our doctors partner with you to understand your symptoms, review your detailed medical history, and examine your skin for signs of contact dermatitis. Patch Testing for Allergic Contact Dermatitis If our dermatologists suspect that allergic contact dermatitis is causing a rash, a patch test is the most effective diagnostic tool. NYU Langone dermatologists have been leading experts in the technique of patch testing since the 1930s, when the patch test was first brought to the United States. This allergy test is uniquely designed to identify the cause of contact dermatitis without the use of needles. The patch testing process typically occurs over three to seven days, and requires at least three visits with your dermatologist. In the patch test, a number of thin metal or flexible plastic chambers that contain a small amount of an allergen are applied to the back. The patch tests are removed after two days, at which point the skin is examined for evidence of irritation. You return to your doctor’s office after a day or more for a final reading, during which our doctors examine the skin for signs of allergic reactions. The allergens used in the test are found in everyday products as well as more unusual sources, and help distinguish which products or other exposures may be causing the rash. Once the patch testing process has concluded, patients are provided with a list of products to use that do not contain the chemicals that caused the reaction. Our Contact Dermatitis Team Our doctors are experts in the diagnosis and management of contact dermatitis and are skilled in the technique of patch testing for allergic contact dermatitis. David E. Cohen, MD, MPH Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology Alexandra Flamm, MD Dermatology, Dermatopathology Theodora K. Karagounis, MD Emily C. Milam, MD We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. To make an appointment, please call 212-263-0800 Pulmonary Intervention Surgery for Airway Conditions At NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program, our team of specialists manages conditions of the trachea, commonly known as the windpipe, and the bronchi, which are the two major airways leading from the trachea to the lungs. Our doctors are renowned experts in the use of minimally invasive to manage tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), in which the trachea and bronchi soften and collapse during breathing. Ours is one of the few programs in the Northeast to focus on treatment of conditions that affect the airway, using both surgical and nonsurgical minimally invasive approaches. These are some of the other conditions of the airway we commonly treat: tracheal stenosis, a narrowing of the trachea that typically occurs because of scarring after intubation tracheoesophageal fistula, or an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus, the long, hollow tube that extends from the throat to the stomach trachea or bronchial tumors, both noncancerous and cancerous, including slow-growing carcinoid tumors Our tracheal experts include interventional pulmonologists, pathologists, thoracic surgeons, head and neck surgeons, head and neck reconstructive surgeons, and pulmonary rehabilitation specialists. Doctors from , including radiologists, radiation oncologists, and medical oncologists, may also be part of the care team. Together, we create personalized care plans to manage your airway health. Care may include interventional pulmonology procedures minimally invasive or open surgery , chemotherapy or immunotherapy, radiation therapy, and Our doctors diagnose and manage conditions of the trachea and bronchi Jamie L. Bessich Benjamin Cooper Andrew J. DeMaio Amie J. Kent Vivek Murthy Daniel H. Sterman Our thoracic surgeons may be part of your treatment team. NYU Langone medical oncologists or radiation oncologists at Perlmutter Cancer Center may help manage airway tumors. Pulmonary rehabilitation may be part of your recovery from surgery or other treatments. 212-263-7951 At NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program, we provide diagnosis and comprehensive care for people who have . This rare and complex condition causes immune cells to clump together into masses called granulomas that can prevent an organ from functioning properly. There are many types of sarcoidosis , which are classified by the organs or tissues involved. Most often, sarcoidosis affects the lungs, lymph nodes, or skin, but it can occur anywhere in the body. Sarcoidosis may require treatment from several different specialists. We have been named a Sarocoidosis Center for Excellence by the World Association for Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG) for our leadership, best practices, research, and training for sarcoidosis. One Team, Coordinated Care Our experts—pulmonologists, cardiologists, dermatologists, nephrologists, neurologists, ophthalmologists, and rheumatologists—work closely together to diagnose sarcoidosis and to create a comprehensive treatment plan for you. Our team coordinates your care across specialties to make your experience with us as seamless as possible. Advanced Diagnostics NYU Langone doctors have access to the most-advanced tools to diagnose sarcoidosis in any organ. These include advanced imaging using MRI and PET; flexible bronchoscopy; endobronchial, transbronchial, and endomyocardial biopsy; bronchoalveolar lavage; and endobronchial ultrasound–guided transbronchial needle aspiration. Such technologies enable doctors to accurately diagnose sarcoidosis and rule out other conditions with similar symptoms. Experts in Sarcoidosis Care Our comprehensive approach allows us to quickly identify and address symptoms and other complications related to sarcoidosis. For example, people with sarcoidosis have an increased risk of developing . Our nephrologists specialize in preventing and treating the sarcoidosis-related calcium imbalances that cause these stones to form. Our neurologists are experienced in managing complications of the nervous system associated with sarcoidosis, including optic neuritis, myelitis, and cranial neuropathies. Our dermatologists provide expert . We work closely with the entire team of doctors to diagnose sarcoidosis when it affects the skin and other organs, and treat skin-related symptoms. Our cardiologists and pulmonologists provide critical care for people who have advanced cardiac or pulmonary sarcoidosis. We also provide advanced therapies for pulmonary hypertension due to sarcoidosis. For those who are considering a heart or lung transplant or a left ventricular assist device (LVAD), we offer a smooth transition of care to Our multidisciplinary specialists meet regularly to discuss each patient’s diagnosis and work together to design a treatment plan that helps achieve the best outcome. When you are seen by an NYU Langone sarcoidosis specialist, you have access to an entire team of experts. They ensure that you receive the best and most-advanced care, including access to novel treatments through our ongoing research and Doctors at NYU Langone participate in an international registry and conduct to discover and evaluate new treatments for sarcoidosis. You and your doctor may discuss whether participating in a clinical trial is appropriate for you. A cardiologist, pulmonologist, or your personal physician may refer you to the Sarcoidosis Program, or you may refer yourself. You can also view our list of physicians and contact an individual provider directly to make an appointment. Our specialists include experts in pulmonology, cardiology, dermatology, neurology, nephrology, ophthalmology, radiology, and rheumatology. Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris Program Co-Director, Pulmonology Program Co-Director, Cardiology Avrom S. Caplan Program Co-Director, Dermatology Rany Condos Alisa N. Femia Jeffrey Michael Yasha S. Modi Uveitis Specialist Nadia Pletukhina NYU Langone Dermatologic Associates Our experts treat all types of skin conditions, including skin sarcoidosis. As one of the highest-volume heart rhythm centers in the country, we offer advanced treatment for all types of heart rhythm disorders. We offer sophisticated technology to extend and improve the lives of people who have advanced heart failure. Skin and Cancer Unit We provide expert diagnostic and treatment services for all types of skin diseases, including skin sarcoidosis. Our experts perform heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplants. Experts from NYU Langone’s Sleep Disorders Program can help with the diagnosis and treatment of severe or prolonged difficulties related to sleep. Our staff is experienced in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Our program includes a five-bed sleep unit outfitted with state-of-the-art recording equipment for sleep studies. We can also provide limited in-home or in-hospital monitoring to screen and follow up on sleep disorders. We are also committed to training doctors for careers in sleep medicine through our Sleep Medicine Fellowship Program Below are some of the most common sleep issues that we can help you with: excessive daytime sleepiness, which is usually a consequence of too little or very disrupted sleep insomnia, which is characterized by difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep, or both kicking or punching during sleep low oxygen during sleep narcolepsy, a lifelong disorder of the central nervous system that makes it difficult or impossible for a person to maintain any state or stage of sleep or wakefulness , which is often described as brief cessations of breathing throughout sleep poor sleep habits preoperative sleep apnea screening restless legs syndrome (RLS), which is best described as “creepy crawly” sensations in your legs, but can also occur in the arms shift work sleep problems shortness of breath during sleep We offer treatments including medications; nasal CPAP, or continuous positive airway pressure mask that helps manage the symptoms of sleep apnea; biofeedback and relaxation therapy to aid sleep; and sleep restriction strategies designed to condense sleep into sequential nighttime hours. Our experts specialize in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Nishay Chitkara Ari Klapholz Mandana Mahmoudi MD, PhD, MPH Sleep Medicine Doctor Rodolfo Miranda AR Alcibiades J. Rodriguez Epilepsy Doctor Erich P. Voigt Otolaryngologist Related Centers Comprehensive Epilepsy Center—Sleep Center Our facility has six patient testing rooms and offers the latest technology for diagnosing sleep disorders in children and adults. NYU Langone Medical Associates—Chelsea At our in-house sleep lab, our sleep medicine specialists diagnose and treat a variety of sleep disorders. NYU Langone Pulmonary Critical Care and Internal Medicine Associates Our sleep medicine experts diagnose and treat sleep disorders in adults. Our team of doctors can address a full range of issues including sleep disorders. We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, and on Long Island. COVID-19 Clinical Trials Our experts are advancing knowledge about all facets of COVID-19 through research. View Current Clinical Trials Experts at NYU Langone’s Post-COVID Care Program provide comprehensive evaluation and treatment for people experiencing long-term symptoms or other lasting health impacts after COVID-19 infection. Many people recover completely from the disease. But some people have persistent COVID-19 symptoms or develop new health problems in the weeks or months after contracting the virus. This can happen even if they had only mild symptoms initially or showed no signs of infection. This condition is sometimes referred to as “long COVID” or “long-haul COVID.” In the medical community it is known as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, or PASC. Some of the common long-term symptoms people experience after COVID-19 include the following: worsened symptoms after physical or mental activities shortness of breath or difficulty breathing memory or concentration problems chest pains fast or pounding heartbeat , or both dizziness and lightheadedness sleep disturbances loss of smell or taste fever COVID-19 is an infection that can affect different areas of the body, including the lungs, heart, kidneys, brain, and muscles. Because of this, some people may develop other health conditions or serious complications, such as , heart problems, kidney problems, , cognitive and memory issues, or weakness that limits physical activity. Leading Treatment for COVID-19 Because COVID-19 is a new disease, many healthcare providers may not have experience with these persistent or new health conditions as they relate to COVID-19. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This has allowed us to collect significant volumes of data quickly. This experience, along with our focus on these long-term symptoms, has given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance of full recovery. Our Post-COVID Care Program specialists, including primary care doctors, pulmonologists, cardiologists, neurologists, mental health professionals, and physiatrists—doctors who specialize in rehabilitation medicine—collaborate to create a personalized treatment plan for you. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic tools and treatments, including medical and lifestyle options. Our goal is to provide comprehensive and coordinated care that supports your recovery and overall health and wellbeing. At NYU Langone, our experts have been on the front lines of the pandemic, from caring for the first patients to testing COVID-19 vaccines and advising health agencies. Our doctors have gained valuable experience and insights that guide the care we provide. Evaluation for the Post-COVID Care Program We evaluate and treat people ages 18 and older who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or related health problems persisting at least 4 weeks after the initial infection. We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. Experts in our Post-COVID Care Program evaluate and treat people who meet the following guidelines: are age 18 years or older still have symptoms from a suspected or diagnosed case of COVID-19 at least four weeks after symptom onset We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. We recommend all new patients schedule a consultation by calling 212-263-6115. At this first appointment, our nurse practitioner takes your health history and discusses your symptoms with you. Based on this information, we provide you with referrals to the appropriate post-COVID care specialists, who complete a full evaluation to determine the severity and scope of your symptoms and create a treatment plan that aids your recovery. If you have received a post-COVID specialty referral or know which specialist or specific doctor you wish to see, you may For questions about our program, call us at 212-263-6115 If you currently have symptoms of COVID-19 or a new positive test for COVID-19, schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone doctor through our service. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to schedule an appointment for a vaccination. If you have post-vaccination concerns, contact your Participate in COVID-19 Research NYU Langone experts have led the field in advancing our understanding of COVID-19 and post-COVID conditions. When you receive care through the Post-COVID Care Program, you may participate in our COVID-19 and enroll in observational research. All of our research efforts aim to improve care and outcomes for people who have had COVID-19. We are actively enrolling adult patients who have long-COVID symptoms in a National Institutes of Health (NIH)–funded Post-COVID Registry . Participants in this study will be asked to provide blood and stool samples at different timepoints, complete health-related questionnaires, and allow the research team to review their COVID-19 history. We are also looking for patients with a history of COVID-19 but no long-COVID symptoms to join our healthy control group. Healthy control group participants will be asked to provide one blood and stool sample and complete one health-related questionnaire. For more information, please contact the research team at: PASCRegistry@NYULangone.org Support for Our Patients with Long COVID Post-COVID Care Program psychologists have developed the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness Group. The program is designed to provide participants with evidence-based skills to manage symptoms and offer a supportive space to share and process experiences with long COVID and the COVID-19 pandemic. This virtual program consists of 12 weekly 60-minute sessions guided by a psychologist from our team. Each session focuses on a specific topic to allow optimal learning of concepts and skills. Topics include the following: overview of the biology of long COVID strategies for managing sleep and fatigue techniques for navigating brain fog and attention issues coping mechanisms for anxiety and grief, and other mental health topics To learn more about the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness group, call us at 212-263-6115. Our experts specialize in caring for people experiencing long-term effects of COVID-19. Neil A. Busis Jeffrey S. Fine Suzette A. Garofano Paul L. Glassman Eva Kosta Joann Kwah Katherine Leiber Anli A. Liu Kristen Lo Sicco Hair Loss Dermatologist William Lu PsyD Amrita Mukhopadhyay John S. Munger Elena Nascimbeni Ferran Kinjan Parikh Vinh P. Pham Susan M. Polizzi View All 35 Doctors & 35 Gene Found to Protect Some Men from Severe COVID-19 & Death One Patient, 165 Care Providers & Endless Gratitude A PET/CT scan is a combination of two noninvasive imaging tests: positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT). At NYU Langone , our expert radiologists review and interpret PET/CT scans to diagnose illnesses, evaluate a patient’s response to treatment, and check for the recurrence of several medical conditions, including cancer. When you have a PET/CT scan, radiolabeled glucose, a form of glucose labeled with radioactive material, is injected intravenously. Much like a car uses gas to run, the cells of the body need glucose to work effectively. The radiolabeled glucose resembles glucose enough to be taken up by cells, but not enough to be used by them. As a result, cells that need more “gas” accumulate more of the radiolabeled glucose. The PET/CT scanner detects where there is a concentration of radiolabeled glucose in the body, and thus where disease may be. For certain people, contrast materials may be given orally or intravenously during the test as well. Preparing for a PET/CT Scan You must fast for six hours before a PET/CT scan, and you are only able to drink plain water. Even ingesting a small amount of sugar can make the results of the test inaccurate. If you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes, you are given specific instructions from our nurses after you schedule your appointment. In order to have a PET/CT scan with contrast, you must have a blood test to check your creatinine levels within six weeks of your scan. Please bring any previous imaging studies and reports with you if they were performed at another institution. You also need your identification card, insurance card, scan prescription, and related forms. During a PET/CT Scan When you arrive for your appointment, you need to change into a gown if you are wearing any clothing with metal in it. A locker is provided for your clothes and personal items. Please advise a nurse or technologist if there is a chance you may be pregnant. Before the scan, a nurse interviews you to get a detailed medical history, and places an intravenous (IV) line. If oral contrast is prescribed, this is when you drink the first portion. You are escorted into a private room, where you receive an injection of radiolabeled glucose and then rest quietly for approximately 45 to 60 minutes. A few minutes before you go onto the scanner, you drink the second portion of your oral contrast and use the restroom. If IV contrast is used during the CT portion of the study, it is injected while you are on the scanner. Scan lasts approximately 20 to 30 minutes. During the scan, you are visible to and can communicate with the technologist, who is present in the adjacent control room at all times. After a PET/CT Scan At the end of the scan, you are escorted back to the patient area and your IV is removed. You can change and have a snack. If necessary, additional instructions are given to you by the nurses. The results of the scan are interpreted by our nuclear medicine physicians. The report is sent immediately to your referring physician, who contacts you with the results. AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead For patients who have lost their ability to speak—due to a stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or other conditions that disconnect the brain’s speech signaling pathways—artificial intelligence and brain–computer interface systems have opened the door to neural speech prostheses. However, few such systems aim to mimic an individual’s unique voice, so that most yield generic speech that can sound robotic. Aided by machine learning algorithms, a research group at NYU Langone Health has developed a unique speech decoder and synthesizer system that produces natural-sounding speech closely matching individuals’ voices. The team’s latest study—one of the largest in its field— tested the approach in 48 patients , showing how the technique can accurately re-create a broad range of speech. Here’s more information about how the system works and how it could lead to far more individualized neural speech prostheses. How does the new vocal reconstruction system work? Speech can be mapped and synthesized from neural electrocorticography (ECoG) signals to a time–frequency representation of speech, or a spectrogram, says neuroscientist Adeen Flinker, PhD . He and colleagues first mapped out a set of 18 speech parameters that represent how the human voice changes in frequency, pitch, and other characteristics over time. A deep neural network can learn and re-create that complex mapping. To capture an individual’s unique speech, the researchers trained a model on a prerecording of each patient’s voice. A technique called an autoencoder was used to constrain the 18 parameters representing that voice. Machine learning equations then helped combine the parameters into a more accurate re-creation of the person’s speech patterns. A comparison of original audio recordings and accompanying spectrograms, collected as individuals speak various words, with the audio and spectrograms generated by the novel speech decoder. Source: NYU Langone Health How do researchers gather the necessary data to decode speech? Researchers have learned to decode speech from the brain signals of patients undergoing evaluation for epilepsy surgery. Electrodes implanted for presurgical evaluation also provide the necessary ECoG recordings for vocal reconstruction. Data from electroencephalography (EEG) electrodes that monitor activity from outside the skull are not sufficient, because the neural signals are distorted after traveling through bone and other tissue. What makes this approach unique? “Instead of generating a generic voice or robotic voice, we first learn the patient’s voice in a machine learning manner,” Dr. Flinker says. That approach yields a more realistic reproduction of the patient’s speech. Additionally, unlike similar studies, which have included only a handful of patients, the team’s study represents the largest cohort to date in which a neural speech decoder for unique speech has been applied, proving that the approach is both reproducible and scalable. “We really wanted to push the envelope and see to what degree we can scale this up,” he says. If the approach pans out, it could lead to clinical trials of brain–computer interface technologies that reproduce an individual’s own voice. In addition, the researchers have shared an open-source neuro-decoding pipeline to bolster collaboration and enable replication of the group’s results. What other new information did the study reveal about speech signaling? Language signals are typically associated with the brain’s left hemisphere, but the researchers used available data from the right hemisphere of 16 patients to produce “robust decoding” for them as well, Dr. Flinker says. “That’s a very exciting finding that hasn’t been shown before, especially not on this scale.” If neural signals from the right hemisphere prove sufficient for decoding speech, he says, it could open up the prosthetic technology to patients with aphasia due to left-hemisphere damage. “The fact that we can decode from the right hemisphere is the first line of evidence that we can perhaps restore and synthesize speech based on intact right hemisphere signals and not the damaged left hemisphere,” Dr. Flinker says. What’s next for this work? The next immediate step, Dr. Flinker says, is to develop approaches that do not require a prerecording of a patient’s voice, while also expanding the system’s vocabulary to include more words and sentences. The team will then need to assess the efficacy of the technology on clinical trial participants with implanted electrodes who are unable to speak. Another significant challenge lies in designing a clinical trial for patients with aphasia to determine how effectively the technology functions when the left hemisphere is compromised. Adeen Flinker, PhD, is an associate professor of neurology. His research focuses on speech, electrocorticography, and signal processing. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD The ventricular assist device (VAD), initially used as a rescue therapy for adults with cardiogenic shock, is now proving to be useful as an adjunct to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in a subset of patients with advanced heart failure. Cardiothoracic surgeon , pioneered an innovative technique that utilizes the device in patients with advanced-stage heart failure currently considered ineligible for traditional bypass surgery. The method uses a temporary VAD to aid recovery and improve outcomes following CABG, lowering the risk of bypass surgery for patients who, otherwise, have limited treatment options aside from transplant. “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure.” “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure by delaying the need for a heart transplant or by offering a path to recovery with bypass surgery,” says Dr. Zias. VAD for Temporary Support In general, patients with heart failure and an ejection fraction at or below 35 percent are at high risk for death or complications with bypass surgery, Dr. Zias says. Research suggests that reduced ejection fraction more than doubles the risk of early mortality after CABG. This paradigm has started to shift, however, with the availability of temporary VADs, he notes. While early versions of these devices were bulky and cumbersome to remove, modern versions can be taken out directly at the bedside with no additional anesthesia or surgery. After coronary bypass surgery, the device is placed centrally into the aorta to temporarily assume the pumping function of the heart, allowing it to rest, Dr. Zias explains. Within a matter of days, the device is taken out, and patients tend to recover quickly thereafter. A Viable Option for Complex Cases Recently, Dr. Zias and the team had a case that was uniquely complex involving a 62-year-old male patient who presented with an acute pulmonary embolism. He also had heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction of 30 percent, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. “After treating the pulmonary embolism, we knew he would require CABG surgery,” Dr. Zias says. “Given his reduced ejection fraction and comorbidities, the surgical risk was higher than average. We recommended placement of a temporary VAD.” After completing the bypass surgery, Dr. Zias inserted the temporary VAD without any complications. Within a day after the procedure, the patient was strong enough to stand and walk. At 10 days postop, the device was removed during a bedside procedure, and the patient returned home shortly after. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country.” “The device alleviates the burden on the heart as it heals, while simultaneously allowing a patient to stand and move around sooner. Together, that makes a huge difference in their overall recovery,” Dr. Zias explains. Being Proactive, Not Reactive When considering CABG in the setting of advanced heart failure, Dr. Zias recommends that patients be referred as early as possible to ensure optimal short-term and long-term outcomes, emphasizing that the cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone are uniquely positioned to perform this procedure. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country,” Dr. Zias says. “Due to our success, the device manufacturer is now launching a trial in this cohort of patients.” Cardiac Surgery, Thoracic Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of the Coronary Artery Bypass Program. He also serves as director of quality assurance for adult cardiac surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Deane E. Smith, MD; Syed T. Hussain, MD; and Nader Moazami, MD Advances in genetic engineering and immunosuppression have raised hopes that genetically modified pigs might help solve the chronic shortage of transplant organs for human patients. Although xenotransplantation of hearts from such animals has shown encouraging results in nonhuman primates, it has been attempted only twice in a living person—in January 2022 and September 2023, when patients at the University of Maryland received pig hearts under the FDA’s “compassionate use” provision. The first patient survived for 60 days before the organ failed; the second patient was still being monitored at the time of publication. NYU Langone Health researchers are pioneering in this emerging field of innovation by taking a different approach: being the first to transplant gene-edited pig hearts into recently deceased humans. Led by , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, they recently reported findings in a study published in Nature Medicine . The transplant recipients were a man and a woman, both of whom had consented to full-body donation. Heart function was monitored for three days. Here, Dr. Moazami discusses the study’s methodology and findings, and its implications for the future of cardiac xenotransplantation. Pioneering the Decedent Model Dr. Moazami, why did you decide to use decedent recipients in this study? Dr. Moazami: The big question in xenotransplantation is whether the lessons we’ve learned from pig-to-primate transplants can be applied to humans. Our goal was to investigate that question without jeopardizing a recipient’s life. My colleague Dr. Robert Montgomery , has pioneered the decedent model in pig-to-human kidney xenotransplantation , with great success. We thought it would be useful to take a similar approach with the heart. “We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now.” Based on discussions with Dr. Montgomery, we set out to determine three things: Is the pig heart robust enough to maintain blood flow in the human? What happens to this heart immunologically? And are any viruses transmitted from the pig to the human? With a deceased recipient, we could investigate those issues in much more detail than with a living patient—for example, by doing frequent biopsies and multiple daily blood draws. Navigating Complex Logistics How did you carry out the experiments? Several months of planning were required. We needed to work out what kind of consent we were going to use and how we would approach the families. We needed to have an OR available, which would then become an ICU, for a three-day period. We needed to train our surgical team in the unique challenges of xenotransplantation. We had to rehearse the procurement protocol, which included transporting the donor heart from a special pig-breeding facility in Virginia. We used animals grown under sterile conditions with 10 genetic modifications—4 genes knocked out to eliminate immunogenic sugars and keep the heart from growing too large, and 6 human genes inserted to improve immunocompatibility. We also used an extremely sensitive screen for porcine viruses to reduce the risk that latent viruses might be present in the donor heart. Once appropriate recipients became available—decedents with organs that were ineligible for donation but whose physiology could withstand the rigors of transplant surgery—we performed the implantations just as we would with a human heart. Afterward, both recipients were monitored 24 hours a day by a team of intensivist physicians and nurses, as well as by the research team. Encouraging—and Instructive—Results Tell us about the results. Were there any surprises? Overall, the results were very positive. There was no sign of rejection or inflammation. The hearts kept pumping without the need for mechanical support. And we detected no porcine viruses in the hearts or in the recipients. However, there were differences in outcome between the two xenotransplants. In the first case, there was a significant size mismatch between the donor heart and the recipient, who had previously had cardiomyopathy. The recipient needed high doses of vasopressors and inotropes, and, by the third day, we saw a deterioration of cardiac output. In the second case, where the size match was good, none of those problems occurred. “For pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy.” One takeaway is that for pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy. Our team has launched another study in which we’re monitoring the growth of the heart at different stages of the animal’s lifetime to get a better understanding of the relationship between heart size and body weight. What else does this study tell us about the future of cardiac xenotransplantation? A lot of work needs to be done before we can determine whether this approach can solve the organ shortage. But the time has come for us to do that work. We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now. Research support and funding for this study was provided by Lung Biotechnology, a wholly owned subsidiary of the United Therapeutics Corporation. Cardiac Surgery, Transplant Surgery Nader Moazami, MD, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery and chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. His research interests center on improving surgical procedures, such as transplants and circulatory support pumps, for patients with end-stage heart failure. Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Dual combination therapies are the standard of care for low- and intermediate-risk pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). However, the long-term impact of add-on sequential triple combination therapy for patients with intermediate- or high-risk disease has remained largely unknown. In a retrospective analysis of 55 patients with PAH on dual combination therapy but not at therapeutic goal, a team of researchers from NYU Langone Health found that the sequential addition of a third therapeutic agent to the regimen yielded significant improvements in function, risk status, and survival. The study was recently reported in Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory Disease “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population.” “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population,” says lead author , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program Assessing Need for Escalating Therapy According to Dr. Sulica, current guidelines recommend adding a third drug sequentially in patients with intermediate-low risk PAH at follow-up. For intermediate-high or high-risk disease, parenteral prostacyclin or referrals for a transplant are recommended options. “Some studies have included patients on dual combination therapy who received a sequential third investigational drug,” Dr. Sulica says. However, until now, no existing study had explored the long-term effects of sequential triple combination therapy in intermediate- or high-risk disease at follow-up, she explains. Moreover, Dr. Sulica emphasizes the need to identify independent predictors of risk reduction with triple-therapy regimens. “While most trials have not included risk reduction as an end point, it could be a useful target to shift the paradigm to a goal-oriented approach,” Dr. Sulica says. Risk Reduction with Triple Therapy For the study, the researchers followed patients with PAH seen at the Pulmonary Hypertension Center from January 2017 to July 2021. Participants were maintained on a stable dual-therapy combination regimen, then followed up after starting a third add-on drug sequentially. Of the 102 patients who started on the triple regimen, 55 were included in the final analysis. About a third of them were classified as high risk. After 68 weeks of follow-up, the researchers saw a significant improvement in functional, hemodynamic, and echocardiographic parameters. In addition, those patients who achieved or maintained low-risk status had significantly improved survival. The analysis found that being female was strongly associated with successful risk reduction. In contrast, Hispanic ethnicity, right atrial pressure, and pericardial effusion were associated with lower odds of risk reduction. “Our findings are hypothesis-generating,” Dr. Sulica explains. “Overall, these data support considering risk reduction as an end point in future trials.” Impact of Diversity on Outcomes Dr. Sulica acknowledges that more research is needed to assess the true impact of race and ethnicity on patient outcomes. “In our cohort, Hispanic patients had lower odds of risk reduction,” she says. “These results need to be confirmed in larger studies.” If the research bears out, she adds, further studies could help identify the optimal triple combination regimen for PAH based on its various etiologies. Dr. Sulica serves as advisor for Bayer, Janssen, Liquidia, Merck, and United Therapeutics. She serves as a researcher for Bayer, Bellerophon Therapeutics, Merck, and United Therapeutics. Roxana Sulica, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program. She specializes in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Latest in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Study shows inflammatory gene signature in tumor-adjacent lung tissue is the strongest clinical predictor of cancer progression. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors NYU Langone’s efforts to address the health effects of the World Trade Center disaster stand as a model for other programs. Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Single-port tech offers an improved surgical experience for both patients and surgeons. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO-HNSF 2024 Annual Meeting Miami Beach, FL. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s experts in otolaryngology—head and neck surgery are joining colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF 2024 annual meeting in Miami Beach. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, September 28 Panel Steroids and the Voice: The Science and Art of Dosing and Tapering Regimen NYU Langone Panelists: Milan R. Amin MD Ryan C. Branski PhD Aaron M. Johnson PhD 2:30–3:30PM MBCC, 224 The Effect of Anxiety on Hypoglossal Nerve Stimulation Adherence and Amplitude Settings Courtney Chou 4:06–4:12PM MBCC, 238–239 Sunday, September 29 Surgical Excision for Vocal Scar: Assessing Patient Outcomes Naomi B. Tesema, BS, Taylor Lackey, MD, Stratos Achlatis, MD, 10:24–10:30AM Monday, September 30 Diagnostic Test Selection in Chronic Cough and Dysphagia 4:00–5:00PM MBCC, 210 Stump the Experts: Laryngology/Broncho-Esophagology 11:00 AM–12:00PM MBCC, 231 Debate Great Debate Series: CI Related Topics J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD MBCC, Art Deco 228AB Incomplete Facial Palsy: Challenging Cases in Facial Reanimation Danielle Eytan, MD MBCC, 232 Poster Presentation Metabolomic Profiling of Nodal Metastasis in HPV-Negative Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma NYU Langone Authors: Chareeni E. Kurukulasuriya, 12:00–1:00PM N/A (poster presentation) Identifying Patient Characteristics and Neuromodulator Treatment Patterns in Adults with Refractory or Unexplained Chronic Cough NYU Langone Presenting Author: Yaerin Song Taylor Lackey, MD, Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease An HZO expert's personal experience culminates in a major clinical trial. The aims and endpoints of the Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) include evaluating whether suppressive valacyclovir treatment delays time to first occurrence of new or worsening of specific forms of eye disease and reduces the incidence, severity, and duration of postherpetic neuralgia. ZEDS researchers are also evaluating the impact of vaccination with the recombinant zoster vaccine on study outcomes and whether vaccination against herpes zoster affects COVID-19 diagnosis and severity. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study As of December 31, 2021, ZEDS had 75 enrolling participating clinical centers across 28 states, Canada, and New Zealand; 540 screened study participants (study visit 1); and 433 enrolled study participants (study visit 2), with 300 having completed 12 months and 239 having completed 18 months of study. The researchers’ goal is to have 780 participants. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Of randomized ZEDS participants, 53 percent are female, 86 percent are White, 5 percent are Asian, 4 percent are Black, 4 percent are Hispanic/Latino, 78 percent had no zoster vaccination before enrollment, and 12 percent had a baseline eGFR of 45 to 59 with the remainder having 60 or above. The median age at randomization was 61, and patients have been evenly distributed among 4 strata according to age at onset of disease and duration of HZO at time of enrollment. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health; Zoster Eye Disease Study Current standard treatment for herpes zoster ophthalmicus (HZO) , or shingles of the eye, involves short-term use of a high oral dose of an antiviral valacyclovir, acyclovir, or famciclovir. An unresolved question has been whether longer-term valacyclovir treatment can improve outcomes in HZO and should become standard of care. In 2016, , a professor of ophthalmology, and her team were awarded a $15 million grant from the National Eye Institute of the National Institutes of Health to explore long-term use of valacyclovir. The resulting 75-center Zoster Eye Disease Study (ZEDS) is currently ongoing. “Our goal is to reduce recurrant and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” “We already know that long-term suppressive treatment has greatly improved outcomes for herpes simplex eye disease, which shares key similarities to herpes zoster eye disease,” says Dr. Cohen. “Our goal is to reduce recurrent and chronic eye disease and chronic pain due to HZO.” A Vision for Treatment Born from Experience A cornea specialist, Dr. Cohen suffered from herpes zoster eye disease in 2008. She lost depth perception and had to give up her practice. Always interested in eye infections, she refocused her research toward finding a better treatment for HZO. Dr. Cohen has been a tireless advocate in her efforts to promote the herpes zoster vaccine. “We now have the recombinant zoster vaccine that is over 90 percent effective,” she says. “It is my ambition that we get as many people as possible age 50 and older and immunocompromised adults protected from this common, debilitating disease that is vision- and life-threatening.” Sustaining ZEDS Research through COVID-19 While the pandemic derailed many clinical trials requiring participant visits, ZEDS notably maintained its momentum. Dr. Cohen and the  ZEDS research team outlined their successful strategy to retain participants and quickly resume enrollment in Contemporary Clinical Trials Communications . The team also outlined the study design and enrollment progress in a recent issue of Cornea “Through the unwavering commitment of researchers here at NYU Langone and at the participating clinical centers, we have been able to sustain our enrollment,” Dr. Cohen notes. “We hope our work can provide insights into the planning of future trials in addition to improving outcomes in HZO.” Dr. Cohen and the research team encourage all doctors to refer patients with HZO to a study site near them for evaluation, or to contact the NYU Grossman School of Medicine by phone at 844-NYU-ZEDS or by email at ZEDS.CTA@nyulangone.org , our cardiologists understand that each cardiac condition requires a specialized approach to treatment. This is why we have established several condition-focused cardiac programs to ensure you receive personalized, high-quality care. , experts diagnose and create treatment plans for patients living with a heart condition that was present at birth, emphasizing lifelong health. In our , doctors use the latest diagnostic tools to provide an accurate diagnosis and create treatment plans to manage this serious heart condition, in which protein buildup causes thickening of the heart walls. Experts at our provide cardiovascular care to patients who have cancer or are cancer survivors. Specialists at our base their treatment on the latest clinical trial data to manage a full array of blood-clotting disorders. In addition, cardiologists at our manage aneurysm and aortic dissection using minimally invasive approaches and open surgery. World renowned experts at our provide care to patients with this condition, in which the heart’s left ventricle wall becomes stiff, limiting the ability to pump blood. We encourage you to reach out to our providers at the specialized program that best addresses your medical needs. Care for Neurosarcoidosis Neurologists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program have experience in diagnosing and treating neurosarcoidosis. This inflammatory condition affects about 5 to 10 percent of people with . Neurologic symptoms of neurosarcoidosis may appear before other sarcoidosis symptoms, or they may be the only sign of sarcoidosis. Symptoms vary depending on the part of the nervous system affected. When neurosarcoidosis affects the optic nerve, for example, patients may experience worsening vision in the affected eye and pain when it moves. Someone whose neurosarcoidosis affects the spinal cord may experience weakness, abnormal sensation, or difficulty emptying the bladder. When neurosarcoidosis affects the brain, it can lead to symptoms that may include seizures, vision problems, or difficulty with thinking and memory. Neurosarcoidosis is rare, affecting an estimated 1 in 100,000 people in the United States. To make a diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis, the neurologist takes a detailed neurologic history and conducts a comprehensive neurologic examination. Testing for neurosarcoidosis may include MRI of the brain and spinal cord and lumbar puncture, as well as blood tests to exclude alternative diagnoses. Our neurologists work with you and your other sarcoidosis specialists to develop a personalized treatment plan. A number of medications have been found to be helpful in preventing neurologic symptoms from getting worse or even improving symptoms. Our neurologists can accommodate appointments for patients who need to be seen urgently. If you’re unable to find an appointment with one of our providers using online scheduling, please call us at Taking Robotic Thoracic Surgery to the Next Level Robert J. Cerfolio, MD The robotics work at NYU Langone Health is building on its proven track record of success. Recently, , a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of robotic thoracic surgery , and his team were among the first to perform a lobectomy using a single-port robot. “The earliest anecdotal evidence is compelling, with some patients foregoing pain medication and being discharged ahead of schedule,” Dr. Zervos says. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery.” While the new single-port platform is currently being used in a clinical trial setting, Dr. Zervos is optimistic about the future of the technology, citing the strong potential for broad use across various thoracic surgery procedures. Leaders in the Robotic Arena While most thoracic procedures are still performed in a conventional multiport manner, single-port robotic-assisted surgery offers an exciting new premise for innovation in the field. “Through years of practice, our division has been a pioneer in developing and advancing minimally invasive robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos says. For over a decade, he and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, have been dedicated to propelling robotic surgical technology forward and training surgeons worldwide, positioning themselves as global leaders in the robotic arena. “Patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” “We are known all over the world as innovators in surgical techniques, and this extends to postoperative care,” Dr. Cerfolio says. “We are dedicated to our patients, making availability a priority, and patients travel from around the globe to have us perform their lung resection.” Wins for Patient and Surgeon Over the past several years, robotic systems for thoracic surgery have evolved rapidly. The newest single-port platforms have many unique advantages over multiport platforms, such as the ability to perform surgery using a single, minimalized incision and to apply a subcostal entry that avoids invasion of the chest cavity. With these advantages, the procedure leaves little to no scarring and reduces pain, a major benefit compared to other minimally invasive techniques. “With standard multiport platforms, patients will experience some degree of pain and potentially chronic intercostal neuralgia,” Dr. Zervos says. “With the single-port robot, patients report minimal to no pain after the procedure.” For the Love of Teaching While attitudes have begun to change, few programs have fully integrated robotics training into their residency and fellowship curricula. Common barriers include cost and lack of faculty expertise, as well as other factors. “For many programs, there is a huge gap in implementing education for new technologies like robotic surgery,” Dr. Zervos explains. To start to close this knowledge gap, Dr. Zervos and Dr. Cerfolio have led the design of unique case observation and training programs, open to both trainees and surgeons from within the United States and around the globe. They hope the programs can surmount some of the barriers to implementing robotics training in thoracic surgery. Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and senior consultant for the Robotic Surgery Center. He specializes in the treatment of lung and esophageal cancers. Michael Zervos, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery, chief of clinical thoracic surgery, and director of robotic thoracic surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. He specializes in the treatment of complicated airway, breathing, and lung conditions using minimally invasive approaches. Relentless Pursuit of World-Class Care for 9/11 Responders & Survivors More than two decades after the attack on the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11, 2001, many first responders and survivors continue to experience health impacts from their exposure to toxic conditions. From the beginning, NYU Langone Health, in collaboration with NYC Health + Hospitals, has been an integral player in the care and surveillance of these patients In 2010, following the establishment of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, NYU Langone began providing care as part of the CDC’s WTC Health Program. This encompasses the WTC Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone for responders, directed by Denise J. Harrison, MD WTC Environmental Health Center at NYC Health + Hospitals for survivors, directed by Joan Reibman, MD Both Dr. Harrison and Dr. Reibman were caring for patients when the attacks occurred. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda.” “Right away we started seeing patients in the clinics and developing specialized treatment for responders, survivors, and residents,” Dr. Harrison says. Care for Responders Shortly following the WTC disaster, Dr. Harrison received funding from the Robin Hood Foundation to travel to affected communities to screen and refer day laborers who played a vital part in the recovery effort but would otherwise not have access to care. “The community has always been the key driver of our agenda,” Dr. Harrison says. She emphasizes that the leadership within NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program meets regularly with community organizations and union members who share in the decision-making involving research and patient care. As a result, what began as a screening program for responders now provides comprehensive services for health monitoring mental health pharmacy benefits counseling . If a responder is approved, the program pays for all their medical expenses. Treating Community Survivors While NYU Langone’s WTC Health Program treats a broad range of responders, from firefighters to healthcare personnel to iron workers, the WTC Environmental Health Center assesses and treats WTC-related physical and mental health conditions of survivors— eligible residents, students, workers, or passersby in the area on 9/11. In 2005, Dr. Reibman and colleagues published an epidemiologic survey of over 2,300 individuals who lived and worked in the WTC geographic area on or after 9/11. The study showed that a significant number had developed respiratory issues By 2008, the WTC Environmental Health Center had received federal funding to provide treatment for these survivors. “Our goal is to provide care for all those with conditions resulting from dust and fume exposures, but also to provide surveillance of new conditions.” Notably, Dr. Reibman says, the WTC Environmental Health Center was included as the only Center of Excellence for survivors under the CDC’s WTC Health Program and serves as a model for subsequent survivor programs. To date, there are over 14,000 survivors enrolled in the WTC Environmental Health Center. “These patients continue to inform us about WTC-related illnesses,” Dr. Reibman says. In 2022, her team detailed how WTC-related airway injury impacts chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Cancer Characteristics Much of these surveillance efforts are directed at cancers. Where a majority of responders seeking treatment have been men, and Dr. Harrison’s research has focused on these patients , the survivor group comprises about 50 percent women. “Surprisingly, many of these women have had breast cancer rather than lung cancer,” Dr. Reibman notes. The survivor cohort is diverse ethnically and socioeconomically, and about 50 percent had acute exposure (to the dust clouds) and others had chronic exposure (lived or worked in the area). “This focus on the community exposed to the WTC disaster is important because it allows us to study environmental exposures and look at the characteristics of cancers ,” Dr. Reibman says. “We aim to understand the commonalities and differences among the cancers, and to use the unique longitudinal data to better understand environmental exposures and cancer in general.” This effort has led to the establishment of a pan-cancer database . “We’re looking to collaborate with other researchers studying cancers: we have groups focused on , melanoma, and . We also hope to recruit people who were children or youth on 9/11 to study how they’ve been impacted,” Dr. Reibman says. The federal WTC Health Program is still accepting both responder and survivor enrollees. “For anyone who had exposure but never sought treatment or has more recently developed health issues, it’s not too late to enroll in the program,” Dr. Harrison says. “We advocate for everyone coming in.” Pulmonology, Occupational and Environmental Medicine Denise J. Harrison, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and medical director of the World Trade Center Health Program Clinical Center of Excellence at NYU Langone Health. Her research focuses on the ongoing physical and mental health conditions of responders to the World Trade Center attacks. Joan Reibman, MD, is a professor of medicine, affiliated faculty in the Division of Environmental Medicine, and medical director of the World Trade Center Environmental Health Center, a Clinical Center of Excellence that is part of the federal World Trade Center Health Program. Her research focuses on expanding the molecular, environmental, and clinical understanding of urban asthma and cancers. Tumor-Adjacent Tissue Predicts Lung Cancer Recurrence Analysis of RNA collected from healthy tissue adjacent to tumor cells holds significant prognostic information for lung cancer recurrence. ADAPTED FROM: Nature Commun . 2023 Nov 8;14(1):6764. The risk of disease progression for patients with early-stage lung adenocarcinoma is currently about 30 percent after surgical resection. Transcriptomic information collected from tumor-adjacent normal (TAN) lung samples may be a better predictor of whether cancer will recur after treatment than analysis of the tumors themselves, according to new research led by investigators at NYU Langone Health and Analysis of RNA collected from healthy TAN tissue accurately predicted that cancer would recur 83 percent of the time, while RNA from tumors was only informative 62 percent of the time. The TAN samples were also better able to stratify patients into high- and low-risk groups. , the investigation is the largest to date to compare genetic material from tumors and adjacent tissue for their ability to predict recurrence. “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease.” Igor Dolgalev, PhD “Our findings suggest that the pattern of gene expression in apparently healthy tissue might serve as an effective and until now elusive biomarker to help predict lung cancer recurrence in the earliest stages of the disease,” said study co-lead author For the study, the research team collected matched tumor and TAN lung samples from 143 patients with treatment-naïve stage I lung adenocarcinoma who underwent surgical resection. The samples were obtained from NYU Langone’s biorepository of prospectively collected samples. Machine learning models were developed to predict recurrence by identifying genes differentially expressed in patients with cancer progression versus those with no progression within five years of surgery. A multi-modal association map refined patient classification. Analysis revealed that the expression of genes associated with inflammation in TAN lung tissue was especially useful for making predictions. This defensive response, the study authors say, may be an early warning sign of disease. “Immunotherapy might help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection.” Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD “Immunotherapy, which bolsters the body’s immune defenses, might therefore help combat tumor growth before it becomes visible to traditional methods of detection,” said study co-senior author , director of bioinformatics research. The study team, including bioinformatician Hua Zhou, PhD, plan to use the program to prospectively assess recurrence risk in patients newly treated for early-stage lung cancer. Cancer Biology Igor Dolgalev, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Cellular Analytics Laboratory. His research focuses on genetic profiling of cancers, identification of mutations, and the efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors. Cancer Genomics Aristotelis Tsirigos, PhD, is a professor of medicine and pathology, co-director of the Division of Precision Medicine, and director of the Applied Bioinformatics Laboratories. His research focuses on cancer genomics and epigenomics: designing computational methods and pipelines, analyzing data and interpreting the results in different biological contexts. 324 East 23rd Street New York, NY 10010 646-754-1489 NYU Langone’s Osteoporosis and Bone Health Program is dedicated to increasing the quality of life of people suffering from or at risk for developing Our program specialists are dedicated to preventing bone fragility fractures related to osteoporosis by working together to provide you with the best possible care. We collaborate with orthopedic surgeons, nurse practitioners, and physical therapists to offer you complete support during diagnosis, initial treatment, and beyond. Diagnostic Expertise Osteoporosis is a disease that gradually weakens bones and increases the risk of fracture. It affects up to 28 million people in the United States, making it as common as . Women who have reached are at the greatest risk of developing the condition. A fragility fracture is often the first sign of the condition. When you first meet with us, we give you a comprehensive evaluation that may include simple, noninvasive diagnostic tests that measure your level of bone loss. We also perform mineral density testing to measure the strength of your bones. A Personalized Care Plan Our postfracture bone health program is a crucial step toward ensuring optimal recovery and preventing future fractures. After a bone fracture, the affected area is often weakened and more susceptible to additional injuries. Our team works with you to strengthen the bones through dietary adjustments, physical therapy, and , if needed. We encourage adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D to support bone regeneration and density. Physical therapy plays an important role in restoring mobility, improving balance, and increasing muscle strength, which together reduce the risk of more falls and fractures. We also help improve patient care after a fracture by providing information on the following: nutrition, physical activity, and repeat bone mineral density testing medication and other treatment options your specific risk factors and treatment recommendations This program also addresses underlying causes of the initial fracture, including repetitive movements. By identifying and managing these causes, we help to reduce long-term health risks. Ongoing Follow-Up Care Through regular monitoring and follow-up appointments, our providers monitor your bone health and promptly adjust your treatment plan. This approach not only helps the immediate healing process but also promotes long-term bone health, enhancing the overall quality of life for people who have experienced fractures. Our providers can develop a treatment plan to manage your osteoporosis and bone health. NL Nicole Leung 646-754-9631 Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Surgical Services Specialists in NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program offer advanced surgical procedures to manage tracheal and bronchial disorders. Our doctors can discuss whether surgery is the right option for you. Our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world at using to manage tracheal and bronchial tumors, including carcinoids, tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, and tracheoesophageal fistula. NYU Langone is one of the few medical institutions in the Northeast to offer a minimally invasive surgical approach for these conditions, helping to decrease the patient’s length of stay in the hospital and allowing for a faster, less-painful recovery than conventional open surgery. Tracheal Surgery For tracheal surgery, our doctors consider whether a traditional open procedure or minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery is the best approach for you. Open surgery may include making incisions in the neck, also known as transcervical surgery, or an incision in the chest, which is called a sternotomy. Depending on the location of the tracheal condition, either one of these approaches might be used or combined. If the underlying problem is in the chest, our doctors are likely to use robotic-assisted surgery. Our thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons work together to provide the most appropriate surgical approach to manage tracheal conditions. The surgery for TBM includes sewing a mesh to the back side of the airway to strengthen and remodel its size and shape, preventing collapse. Our surgeons may remove and reconstruct portions of the trachea to manage tracheal stenosis. For a tracheal sleeve procedure, surgeons make incisions to remove the narrowed portion of the trachea and then reattach the healthy upper and lower parts of the trachea to restore airflow. Tracheoplasty is a procedure to manage longer sections of narrowed airway. Our surgeons divide and make incisions in two sections of the narrowed portion of the airway. The surgeons slide one section into the other, creating a shorter but wider trachea. Tracheoesophageal fistula may be managed with surgery to close an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus. Surgery may also be a treatment option for tracheal tumors. Doctors remove the tumor and a small border of surrounding tissue and then connect the healthy ends of the trachea to each other. Our team has published articles on techniques to repair or replace damaged tracheal tissue. Bronchial Surgery Our thoracic surgeons may perform a bronchial sleeve resection and reconstruction to remove bronchial tumors. Surgeons make incisions in the bronchus, also known as a bronchial tube, to remove the tumor, along with some surrounding tissue. They then reconnect the healthy parts of the bronchus to each other. Our surgeons may use minimally invasive robotic-assisted surgery to manage bronchial tumors, an approach rarely offered at other institutions, where open approaches are the norm. Robotic-assisted surgery allows for faster recovery, less pain, and an earlier return home than after an open bronchial surgery, improving patients’ quality of life. Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Steven Hodak, MD sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the new wave of treatments and approaches available for thyroid-related conditions. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation —the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. How are we moving in a minimally invasive direction? What does it mean? Dr. Hodak: We’re really on the precipice of another huge paradigm shift in the way we can take care of thyroid patients. There’s an increasing recognition that minimally invasive treatments can be used for treating thyroid nodules that are unsightly, that cause a cosmetic bulge in the neck, or cause obstructive or compressive symptoms, or that may even be overactive nodules that are producing thyroid hormone and making the patient hyperthyroid. We now have minimally invasive methods that are done on an outpatient basis in 30 minutes to an hour. In many cases, the patients are awake. They go home the same day, and we’re able to treat that nodule and give the patient a good cosmetic result. Size reduction, normalized thyroid function without ever leaving a scar, and most importantly, preserving normal thyroid function, which is not the case for surgery in up to about half of patients who have had half of their thyroid removed. What about different techniques when you do decide to remove them? You were an early adopter of radiofrequency ablation. I went to Korea to learn how to do the procedure. It’s been done in Korea for probably 15 years, and I learned from one of the world masters. “I went to Korea to learn how to do [radiofrequency ablation] … I learned from one of the world masters.” It uses heat to destroy the tissue, the needle that we use has about the caliber of a piece of spaghetti. It’s about seven inches long. There’s a handle on it, and there’s an active tip of variable size. And that active tip generates very high-frequency energy. What that does is it creates very precisely delivered heat that we can then move around through a nodule under continuous ultrasound guidance, and we can destroy the nodule. It’s effective, it’s done in the office—30 to 60 minutes—depending on the size of the nodule. It does not remove the nodule, which is one of the benefits of surgery. If we know the nodule is benign and what we’re trying to do is give the patient a good cosmetic outcome, and spare their thyroid function, or alleviate symptoms and spare their thyroid function, it’s a terrific procedure. We’re dancing around different demarcations of thyroid cancer. What about the different kinds of thyroid cancer and how we approach them differently? These days, when we’re finding small thyroid cancers in the thyroid gland, and where we know they have not spread locally, one of the treatments that we can discuss is a minimally invasive procedure like radiofrequency ablation. It’s really pretty amazing. I’ve treated some of these small tumors in over 12 to 18 months. After follow-up, the cancer will literally disappear. There won’t be any visible cancer left. The first case I ever did, years ago at NYU Langone, was a lovely lady who had a variety of complications, but she had what was considered an inoperable papillary thyroid cancer that was growing in size. She had vocal cord paralysis. She had had a lung transplant. The surgeons didn’t want to touch her because they knew if they traumatized her vocal cord nerves, she’d wind up with a permanent tracheostomy, a breathing tube. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them.” I agreed to do that case with a minimally invasive method. We were able to completely destroy her cancer, which allowed her to be listed for a kidney transplant that she desperately needed. These treatments are fabulously empowering, and we’re really happy we can offer them. [ Read more about Dr. Hodak’s experience with radiofrequency ablation here. How do you approach goiters? The tried-and-true treatment is surgery, but there are some newer treatments that are very exciting that are reducing the need for surgery. We’re one of very few centers in the United States that does thyroid artery embolization. It’s something that Howard Rinna , who, you know, is the chief of interventional neurosurgery, and I started doing about a year ago. Howard does this procedure, he’s been doing it for other neurological tumors for many years. It involves taking a thin catheter that’s passed through an artery, typically through a puncture in the groin, just like how an angiogram is done, or any of these other catheter-based procedures. Howard will snake that catheter right up and into the arteries that feed the thyroid, or, in the case of a nodule, feed the nodule itself. Then he instills microscopic embolization beads into the artery. Those beads are carried along with the blood flow, and they eventually lodge when they get to the very tiny vessels, the capillaries, and then the artery starts to backfill with beads, and all of the branch feeders start to get occluded as well. By doing this, he’s able to stop the blood supply to the thyroid, to a lobe, to the nodule that needs to be treated in this patient procedure that is done as an outpatient, where hospitalization is usually not needed. He’s able to destroy large parts of the thyroid very selectively and reduce these enormous goiters. The really exciting opportunities are for the patients who have these big goiters that are in their chest. In the old days, some cases, we would have to do a sternotomy and split the chest open to get those goiters out of the deep part of the chest. Howard can treat those now through this vascular procedure. And even if the patient winds up with surgery, it’s an enormously more straightforward surgery when the goiter has been dramatically decreased in size. What do people do in underserved areas? The North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, NASIT, is an organization that I started with a number of people in California, in Florida, in New York, from some of the premier institutions in the country. It really is a home for all of the people doing minimally invasive procedures and interventional thyroidology like I do. “I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment.” If people are looking for a doctor like that in their area, there’s a search function on the website. They can go to www.nasit.org , and they can find a doctor in their area. If someone needs a highly specialized treatment and they don’t have a specialist in their area, they need to find one if that’s the procedure that they need. Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. I always tell people, just because you have a wrench doesn’t make you a good mechanic. You need to know how to use the equipment. When people have real diseases that need a real evaluation, making sure that you’re working with a center that really can offer top-of-the-line care and expert diagnostics as well as treatment options—there’s really no substitute for that. Endocrinology, Thyroid Disorders Steven Hodak, MD, is a professor of medicine in the Holman Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Metabolism, and co-director of NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program. He specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid nodules and cancer. He has pioneered advanced molecular methods to identify genetic indicators in cancer cells. Physician Resources At NYU Langone Health, our doctors and researchers participate in hundreds of clinical trials and research studies with the aim of translating findings into new, more effective treatments. Search our up-to-date registry to see if one of our current trials or studies meets the needs of your patient. Search Clinical Trials and Research Patient Transfers NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Transfer Center provides a single point of contact for referring physicians to transfer adult patients to and within NYU Langone’s inpatient locations, including Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and helps facilitate direct admissions. To initiate a transfer, contact us at the numbers provided Schools of Medicine Our two distinct but related medical schools provide full-tuition scholarships to students enrolled in its MD degree programs—regardless of need or merit—to help address the nationwide physician shortage and student debt burden, as well as cultivate diversity and inclusion. The schools are distinct yet related entities of both NYU Langone Health and New York University. NYU Langone also is affiliated with NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull in Brooklyn, NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue and NYC Health + Hospitals/Gouverneur in Manhattan, and the VA NY Harbor Healthcare System. NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. Students have the opportunity to pursue a number of accelerated and dual-degree pathways. NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, on the campus of NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, offers an innovative, accelerated three-year curriculum exclusively devoted to training primary care physicians and developing leaders in health care systems. Graduate medical programs are available in more than 20 specialties. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides the highest standard of continuing medical education (CME). Our courses—including virtual live activities, regularly scheduled series, and enduring materials—are developed and taught by leaders in medicine from NYU Langone Health and around the country. Search for upcoming events or join our CME email list Through the graduate medical education training programs at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, residents and fellows work with some of the leading physician-educators in the world while caring for a diverse patient population. Learn about training opportunities at Opportunities to Join Our Diverse Community Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. NYU Langone Health recently created the new Institute for Excellence in Health Equity designed to advance the mission of health equity across the entire health system. We strive to build a culture of inclusivity by facilitating and enabling recruitment, training, and mentorship of individuals who are underrepresented in medicine, including medical students, physicians, scientists, and faculty. Explore current faculty opportunities Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System From left: Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN, Emeline M. Aviki, MD, and Rosemary Semler, RN. Source: NYU Langone Health The NYU Langone Oncofertility Program offers standard and novel treatments and prioritizes easy access to care. Under new protocols, oncofertility services are available to every patient with cancer, and any provider in the NYU Langone system—including nurses and physician assistants—can refer patients to a team of dedicated fertility nurse navigators. The program has performed the system’s first uterine transposition surgery and the first ovarian tissue cryopreservation. Although infertility is a common effect of many cancer therapies, only a small minority of patients take advantage of technologies available to preserve fertility before or during treatment. Studies point to numerous barriers preventing patients from seeking such care, including lack of awareness, the high cost of many fertility-preservation procedures, insufficient time to act due to an urgent diagnosis, and patients’ or providers’ discomfort with discussing reproductive issues. NYU Langone Health is addressing these obstacles with a new program that prioritizes easy access to care. Launched in February 2024, the Oncofertility Program at offers a comprehensive range of fertility counseling, education, and treatment options—including novel techniques such as uterine transposition and ovarian tissue cryopreservation. In addition to its clinical robustness, what sets the program apart is its proactive approach: Under a groundbreaking protocol, every patient treated for cancer at NYU Langone is given the opportunity to receive oncofertility services through a team of dedicated nurse navigators. And any provider who interacts with the patient can set the process in motion. “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA “We want to optimize patients’ ability to live normal lives in the years that follow their cancer treatment, including having children if they wish to do so,” says gynecologic oncologist , the program’s physician sponsor. “Our goal is to ensure that every patient with cancer who is treated at NYU Langone has seamless access to both standard of care and the most cutting-edge methods for fertility preservation.” Casting a Broad Net Dr. Aviki joined NYU Langone in 2023 from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), where she had participated in a similar program. Although the NYU Langone has long offered egg freezing under the direction of reproductive endocrinologist and infertility specialists Elizabeth Fino, MD , in Manhattan, and Linda Sung, MD , in Long Island, Dr. Aviki set out to increase access and participation while expanding specialized services to patients across the health system. She recruited Rosemary Semler, RN, a veteran oncology nurse who had led MSKCC’s program, to direct the initiative. Oncologist Abraham Chachoua, MD , played a key role in championing the program and securing philanthropic support from NYU Langone’s , where he is director. Based at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, the team’s vision emphasizes making the program accessible at all NYU Langone locations. Physicians, nurses, and other providers are offered a new protocol: all patients diagnosed with cancer or a high-risk genetic mutation, or who express the desire to discuss family-building options posttreatment, should be asked if they would like to receive fertility-preservation counseling. If so, they can be referred to one of the program’s two nurse navigators—Semler and Vanguie Armijo Mora, RN—through an Epic order set. “Anyone can put in the referral,” says Semler. For example, chemotherapy nurses are encouraged to ask if fertility has been discussed before administering medication for the first time. “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship if they hadn’t been given the opportunity to discuss their wishes around this issue.” “Sometimes, patients will decline fertility counseling, only to have their spouse express interest at the time treatment starts. You can just imagine the long-term impact on their relationship.” Rosemary Semler, RN A consult can be arranged within 24 hours—or more quickly, if necessary. “We have arrangements with sperm banks where patients can collect right away so there is no significant delay in the administration of chemotherapy,” Semler adds. Offering Expert Advice and Cutting-Edge Care During a counseling session, navigators discuss the fertility-specific effects of prescribed cancer treatment and a patient’s options for fertility preservation. They can then provide referrals to the appropriate services at NYU Langone. These include not only established approaches such as sperm banking and egg retrieval, but also cutting-edge techniques that are available at few other medical centers worldwide. Recently, for example, Dr. Aviki and her colleague, , performed a pioneering uterine transposition surgery—a procedure that had previously been completed fewer than a dozen times in the United States, she says. This surgery, which involves temporarily relocating the uterus to the upper abdominal wall to avoid damage during pelvic radiation, can preserve both fertility and hormonal function. Similarly, ovarian tissue cryopreservation—in which tissue that holds the eggs is surgically removed and frozen before cancer treatment, and then reimplanted—enables restoration of premenopausal status as well as fertility in women who have undergone high-dose chemotherapy. “This patient population includes girls in early adolescence,” says Dr. Aviki. “It’s a terrible thing when a young girl needs to start chemotherapy so urgently that there isn’t enough time to undergo egg retrieval. In those cases this novel procedure is her only option to preserve fertility, and we are proud to offer it.” “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding.” The Oncofertility Program provides coordination across the cancer care team for patients seeking fertility preservation. It also orchestrates logistically challenging procedures such as inpatient sperm banking and facilitates communication between patients and caregivers. “Teenage boys may find it difficult to talk about ejaculation with a parent or physician,” Semler notes. “It’s often less stressful for them to talk over the phone with a nurse navigator who can explain the risk that treatment poses to their fertility and how to preserve sperm.” Helping Patients Afford Treatment Another key function of the program is to provide resources for patients facing the financial challenges posed by fertility-preservation procedures, which are rarely covered by insurance. In selecting partners to provide services such as egg freezing, the program sought out centers that would offer discounted rates. The program also partners with philanthropic organizations that offer help with costs, as well as arranging financial aid from NYU Langone for patients in need. “This work is a hopeful part of oncology practice,” Semler says. “When patients send a picture of their baby and tell me, ‘You made a difference,’ it’s incredibly rewarding. To help them have the life they always dreamed of is an amazing thing.” Emeline M. Aviki, MD, MBA, is a gynecologic oncologist and medical director of network integration and strategy for Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Her research interests center on financial toxicity in cancer care, the treatment of gynecologic cancers, and the advancement of fertility-sparing surgical techniques. Rosemary Semler, RN, is a clinical nurse specialist and director of the Oncofertility Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on improving cancer patients’ access to fertility preservation procedures. Latest in Obstetrics & Gynecology Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care New program targets complex and serious disorder through systematic imaging, early diagnosis, and enhanced care coordination. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care The inaugural director of midwifery services discusses responding to the growing demand for hospital-based midwifery care. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Dr. Justin Brandt shares insights on how to support transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health At its core, the highly interdisciplinary field of molecular oncology is pursuing an ambitious goal: revealing the complex chemical and biological factors driving the development and progression of individual cancers. The rapid arrival of advanced tools, however, is empowering researchers like Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD—a leading specialist in cancer instability, the biology of rare cancers, and BRCA1 and BRCA2 tumor suppressors—to tackle this monumental challenge. Recruited to serve as the inaugural director of the new Center for Molecular Oncology at NYU Langone Health’s , Dr. Ganesan will collaborate with molecular pathologists, clinician researchers, and other experts to integrate a new wealth of genomic data into detailed cancer profiles for every patient. Here, Dr. Ganesan discusses his vision for what molecular oncology can accomplish. What led you to focus on molecular oncology as a new tool for cancer care? Dr. Ganesan: My original work focused on breast cancer and understanding DNA repair. But over the past 12 years, I’ve also been focused on the important role of cancer genomics in understanding our classification and treatment of disease. Back in 2012, when I was at Rutgers Cancer Institute, we developed one of the earliest molecular tumor boards, in which we started to say “Let’s review all cancers together—adult and pediatric, hematological and solid—and understand them by asking, What are the changes that made these tumor cells in each of these settings different from normal cells?” The intent is both to classify them and ultimately to derive treatments for them. What kind of shift in the field is needed to accomplish that? My experience seeing a variety of cancers and understanding their genomic landscape has made me realize that a significant challenge in oncology is the lack of proper classification of our diseases. We have syndromes: lung cancer really is a large collection of diseases. Modern oncology doesn’t treat “lung cancer”: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments. “Modern oncology doesn’t treat ‘lung cancer’: it all depends on the genomic landscape, with different lung cancers having different treatments.” Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD It really is a change in how we classify our diseases and understand their biology. We need to break them down from organ-based syndromes into specific diseases that have specific treatments. In oncology, our classification of disease is going to be supplemented by the molecular alterations that are present in individual tumors. How do you envision that new focus on molecular alterations shaping cancer care? We’re aiming to apply these novel genomic analyses up front for all our patients. We now have all the critical pieces of information and the ability to monitor disease. Pairing that with the great depth of scientific and clinical expertise of the NYU Langone system will allow us to use the tumor mutational profile to inform the diagnosis and treatment of every patient. Advanced technologies, such as whole-genome sequencing, are also helping us understand that tumors can have a far greater range of genomic alterations than what is detectable with our “standard” sequencing techniques. The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo. “The aim is to deploy what’s standard now, as well as develop the tools of the future, because we’re not satisfied with the status quo.” Let’s monitor the cancers both in early- and late-stage settings by cell-free DNA analysis to understand when a tumor is coming back and how the tumor is changing under treatment—first to learn about the cancer biology and then to develop more-effective treatments for these patients. That’s our hope. How can this effort transform cancer research as well? We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research. When we see patterns, can we then initiate clinical trials? When we detect novel alterations and new mechanisms of resistance, the basic and translational scientists can investigate these in the lab to determine their significance. If we see a novel alteration, we ask: Is this really causing the cancer? Is it targetable? Clinical researchers will help validate these insights, moving them from the lab to the patient. On top of that, we need to educate the next generation of oncologists, clinicians, and scientists on the value of these data and how to use them. My task will be to implement this with NYU Langone’s researchers and with commercial partners. I’m excited to get started, but it is a long game. “We don’t want to generate data to create a museum of data. We want this to be a living thing for clinical investigators, where the data generation will nucleate clinical research.” Where is the field of molecular oncology heading? I think it’s exploding. The number of pathway-specific drugs is taking off, with more and more drugs targeting specific molecular alterations. Immunotherapy is another weapon in the armamentarium. And there’s now a focused effort to better understand why some patients’ cancers respond to therapies while others don’t, and to assess treatment response early. These molecular tools will be crucial in unraveling these questions: the initial molecular profile of a tumor provides insights into how it developed, which therapies it may respond to, how it might evolve under current treatments. And this knowledge can guide the development of better treatments. Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, is director of the Center for Molecular Oncology at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Stacy Loeb, MD (left). Source: NYU Langone Health Encouraged by prior research revealing a link between plant-based diets and improved prostate cancer outcomes, professor of urology , has led several recent studies reinforcing the benefits of diet in both mitigating cancer risk and enhancing overall health. These insights inspired her to pursue an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine. Here, Dr. Loeb shares her findings—and what she now tells patients about plant-based eating. Dr. Loeb, do you recall the specific study that inspired you to research plant-based diets in prostate cancer? Dr. Loeb: I read about an early randomized trial from 2005 showing that patients with prostate cancer who engaged in a lifestyle intervention—including a vegan diet, physical activity, and stress reduction—experienced less disease progression compared with those who did not. Given how often I treat prostate cancer, I began educating myself further in this area and found that the research was compelling. “I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them.” Though traditional medical school training has not placed sufficient emphasis on nutrition as a complementary therapeutic approach, the benefits of plant-based eating overall are well documented. I wanted to be in a position to advise my patients if this is something that can help them. My interest led me to obtain an additional board certification in lifestyle medicine in 2023. What are some of your own findings around plant-based diets and their benefits for patients with prostate cancer? We have found that a plant-based diet is associated with both a lower risk of developing aggressive forms of prostate cancer and a reduction in disease progression among those diagnosed with the condition. We use a plant-based diet index (PDI) to measure adherence to plant consumption, with positive marks for plant foods and negative marks for animal-derived foods. In these studies, males who consumed plant-based diets were found to have a 19 percent lower risk of diagnosis with fatal prostate cancer, while those scoring in the highest quintile of PDI had a 47 percent lower risk of progression. Examples of plant-based meal options include a veggie burger, tofu salad, and vegan curry. Source: Getty Images While those findings are encouraging enough, we’ve also found an association between plant-based eating with better quality of life among prostate cancer survivors. Among patients treated for prostate cancer, we reported higher quality-of-life scores for sexual function, urinary function, and hormonal vitality among those eating the most plant-based and the least animal-based food. In my own practice, I have seen patients experience weight loss, improve blood pressure control, and no longer needing medication for their erectile dysfunction or urinary symptoms after adopting a plant-based diet. What is your working theory of why a plant-based diet may be so beneficial in prostate cancer, specifically? We know on a basic level that plant-based diets are the source of beneficial components such as fiber and antioxidants while eliminating processed and red meats, which are classified as carcinogens by the World Health Organization. We also know that plant-based diets improve cardiovascular health . Erectile dysfunction is often found to be the “canary in the coal mine,” an early-warning sign of problems with the vascular system. In fact, a diagnosis of erectile dysfunction has been found to precede cardiovascular events by approximately five years in some patients. This connection is reinforced by our observations of better erectile function when patients with prostate cancer eat more plant-based food. Anything that can help improve cardiovascular health—diet included—will likely also benefit the vascular system throughout the body. How have your findings impacted the advice you give patients who are at risk for or have developed prostate cancer? Are patients receptive to your counsel when it comes to diet? This research has significantly influenced my approach to patient care. I now routinely emphasize the benefits of plant-based eating as part of a comprehensive management plan for prostate cancer. While I do point out that many of these studies are observational in nature, it’s also true that there’s no evidence of harm in adopting a plant-based diet; in fact, the opposite is true. Patients treated for early-stage prostate cancer are then most likely to die from cardiovascular disease , so a diet that supports heart health is a win all around. “When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help.” I find most patients are amenable to making this diet change. And many report positive outcomes. For instance, Gabe Canales Brian Jones , who have publicly shared their journeys, demonstrate how adopting a plant-based diet can have a profound impact on managing prostate cancer. When patients are diagnosed, they want to know what they can do to improve their outcome. I pursued this research so that I could develop a truly informed answer to that question: that a plant-based diet is unlikely to hurt and likely to help. The teachable moment here is to encourage patients to adopt healthy lifestyle changes that can improve their quality of life and overall health. Advanced imaging localizes recurrent disease and enables cryoablation to target prostate lesion with minimal side effects. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Advanced Imaging Enables Successful Salvage Partial Gland Cryoablation A man in his late 60s presented to at NYU Langone Health with radio-recurrent prostate cancer. In June 2008, doctors had diagnosed the patient with Gleason 4+4 prostate cancer and treated him five months later with intensity-modulated radiation therapy. Post-treatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monitoring in May 2013 showed a nadir of 0.3 ng/mL. By March 2019, however, his PSA had risen to 2.0 ng/mL with a doubling time of 8.2 months, raising concerns of disease recurrence. At NYU Langone, multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) and 18F-fluciclovine PET helped localize the lesion and rule out metastatic disease. After a discussion of treatment options, the patient selected a targeted salvage cryoablation procedure. A pretreatment transperineal prostate biopsy helped further characterize the extent of disease and demonstrated Gleason 4+5, Gleason grade 5, in the left lateral posterior, left posterior, and left medial posterior zones. “The management of radio-recurrent prostate cancer presents unique challenges and requires a tailored approach,” says urologic oncologist “Our use of MRI and targeted biopsy enabled precise localization of the disease recurrence. Localizing the cancer in this manner allowed the treatment to be directed to this region instead of the entire gland, minimizing side effects and procedure risk.” “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control.” In an ambulatory surgical suite, Dr. Wysock performed cryoablation via Endocare V-Probe cryoprobes advanced percutaneously into the prostate transperineally under ultrasound guidance. Post-ablation surveillance biopsies at six months and two years found no evidence of cancer in the ablation zone or remainder of the prostate; PSA and MRI monitoring have likewise shown no cancer over a four-year follow-up. The patient remains continent and intracorporeal injection therapy to treat his erectile dysfunction has yielded an adequate response. “The case is notable for the fact that there have been no complications on the order of a salvage prostatectomy, such as incontinence or rectal fistula, and the treatment has resulted in excellent short term cancer control,” Dr. Wysock says. James S. Wysock, MD, is an assistant professor of urology. In collaboration with Perlmutter Cancer Center, he develops advanced imaging techniques and treatment tools to optimize cancer diagnostics and therapy. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Anne S. Renteria, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed hematologist–oncologist Anne S. Renteria, MD , has joined NYU Langone Health as site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island . Dr. Renteria will leverage her extensive academic and industry experience to expand stem cell transplant and cellular immunotherapy services. Previously, Dr. Renteria served as medical director of the stem cell transplant and cellular immunology program at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, medical director of acute leukemia and stem cell transplant and cellular therapy programs at Rochester Regional Health, and senior medical director of Clinical Development at Forma Therapeutics, a Novo Nordisk company, leading the early clinical development of small molecules for the management of cancer. Here, she highlights the importance of local access to the latest advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies, shares how her research on treatment underuse and interruptions shapes her priorities, and spotlights a key challenge facing the field of hematology–oncology. What inspired you to accept a position at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? Dr. Renteria: I was drawn to the opportunity because Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is part of a hospital system that is recognized as being one of the best transplant centers in the world. I was also inspired by NYU Langone’s commitment to increasing patients’ access to care by expanding the size of its workforce. “It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care without having to leave their community.” With over 7.5 million people living there, Long Island is a busy place with a sizable patient population. Treatment for blood conditions can be an extensive, multistep process. It’s important that patients who live on Long Island—or in any area—have access to state-of-the-art care in leukemia, myeloma, lymphoma, and transplants, including clinical trials when necessary, without having to leave their community. Your research addresses barriers to care. Can you share more about this work and your research priorities at NYU Langone? Dr. Renteria It’s essential that diverse patient populations benefit from advancements in bone marrow transplantation and CAR T-cell therapies. I was born in New York City, but I have lived in many different countries and speak English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French. I am very sensitive to the nuances of cultural differences and I want to help patients from different backgrounds access the care they need. “Age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study.” Multiple myeloma, for example, is a complex and costly disease to manage. The expansion of available therapeutic options has inspired optimism regarding disease-related survival. However, age, race, ethnicity, and primary insurance contribute to the underuse and unplanned interruptions of multiple myeloma treatment. Those were the findings from our 2021 study Cancer Epidemiology , conducted with Nina Bickell, MD, MPH, and colleagues at Tisch Cancer Institute at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. In my clinical research at NYU Langone, I will collaborate with researchers to investigate how to increase access to care for minorities and how genetic and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) profile differences among ethnic groups affect transplant risks. Building on my expertise in industry, I am also working with NYU Langone scientists to tailor new treatment modalities in clinical development to specific patient populations, including minorities. There is also a need for older patients to have access to the best possible treatments with less toxicity. What are your top priorities as director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program ? As site director, my top priority is to work with my team to increase the armamentarium of specialized treatments patients have access to, including autologous and allogeneic transplant and CAR T-cell therapy. I will also focus on how we as a team, including social workers and nurse navigators, can help patients seamlessly navigate the treatment process, from the moment of their diagnosis through their transition to CAR T-cell transplant. Illustration of a T-cell (brown) attacking cancer cells (purple). Source: Getty Images I also want to create a survivorship program to help patients thrive during blood cancer diagnosis and treatment and achieve the best quality of life possible. Patients are always at the center of my priorities. How will blood and marrow transplant services on Long Island fit in with the broader healthcare structure? We are seeking to expand the blood and marrow transplant program across the NYU Langone system and want to coordinate efforts. Therefore, although I will be based on Long Island, I will be collaborating with colleagues at our other sites, including Jeffrey G. Schneider, MD Division of Hematology and Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Oscar B. Lahoud, MD , chief of hematology at Mohammad Maher Abdul Hay, MD , director of the Clinical Leukemia Program at I will also be working closely with specialties crucial for any transplant service, including the emergency department, critical care, infectious disease, and classic hematology. We need to be mindful of those services every day to provide the best quality of care for our patients. What do you consider to be the biggest challenges ahead in the field of bone marrow transplant? How will the Perlmutter Cancer Center and your work aim to address them? The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care in general, and physicians specializing in blood cancer therapy are sorely needed. “The shortage of physicians and staff is one of the biggest challenges in cancer care.” Transplant, which is one word that represents different procedures under the same umbrella, is a highly intense field and specialty. It takes a village, including highly trained physicians who specialize in blood and marrow transplantation, advanced practice providers, transplant coordinators, social workers, nutritionists, physical therapists, symptoms management specialists, and others to provide each patient with the best care possible. To increase the hematology–oncology workforce, we need to understand what hematologist–oncologists, advanced practice providers, nurses, and other team members need to enjoy continuing to work in this field, while tailoring this workforce to meet the patient’s needs. With a dedicated hematology–oncology service in the community, my hope is that we will not only support patients locally, but also drive new talent to the field and increase retention. Hematology, Bone Marrow Transplant Anne S. Renteria, MD, is site director of the transplantation and cellular therapy program at Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and a clinical associate professor of medicine at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. She specializes in increasing access to bone marrow transplant and CAR T-cell therapies. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health NYU Langone’s new Center for Molecular Oncology intends to provide molecular analysis and serial liquid biopsies for all patients diagnosed with cancer. To maximize insights, Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, and colleagues are leveraging whole-genome sequencing to enhance mutation detection beyond standard targeted gene panels. As an example of how whole-genome sequencing can expand knowledge, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used the technique to identify a new class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements. The goal is to translate whole-genome data into actionable, EMR-integrated reports that clinicians can easily interpret for personalized treatment decisions. A growing body of evidence supports the potential of routine molecular profiling of tumors as a transformative practice in oncology. In addition, liquid biopsies—tests that detect DNA shed by tumors into the bloodstream—are emerging as a crucial tool for monitoring malignancies over time. Yet these molecular approaches are currently used almost exclusively for advanced disease, or for the small minority of cancers in which precision therapies are indicated as a first-line treatment. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology, launched in October 2024 , is pioneering a care model in which both practices play a far broader role. In the near future, all patients diagnosed with cancer throughout the health system will receive a molecular analysis of their cancer, followed by serial liquid biopsies as needed. And to help maximize the utility of such assays, researchers attached to the center are turning to a cutting-edge methodology: whole-genome sequencing. “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome. By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD Spearheading that effort is , director of cancer genomics at . “With standard-of-care diagnostic tests, such as targeted gene panels, we’re looking at a thousandth of the genome,” Dr. Imielinski says. “By looking at the whole genome, we can detect and analyze many more mutations that may be therapeutically as well as biologically important.” Hunting for Key Mutations That Targeted Panels May Miss Over the past two decades, targeted gene panels have become the gold standard for genomic assessment of cancer. The most advanced approach uses next-generation sequencing technology to test hundreds of genes simultaneously for known biomarkers of cancer. Although known as “comprehensive” genomic profiling, this method can detect only preselected gene variants. Whole-genome sequencing, by contrast, analyzes an entire genome—whether that of the patient, the patient’s tumor, or both—for variants that may prove relevant to an individual’s cancer or its treatment, even if they are not currently recognized as clinically significant. Advanced computing techniques, such as machine learning, are employed to identify both known biomarkers and variants worth investigating further. At present, this methodology is confined mostly to research labs. Regulators have approved a handful of clinical applications— acute myeloid leukemia in the United States select cancers, including pediatric cancers, in Europe and Australia —but the routine use of whole-genome tests has yet to enter mainstream oncology practice. Dr. Imielinski, who joined NYU Langone in 2022, is a molecular pathologist with an extensive background in computational biology and genomics, and a nationally recognized leader in efforts to bring whole-genome-based diagnostic methods into cancer care. His research focuses on developing new algorithms and technologies for analyzing a tumor genome’s structure and biochemistry. “My lab is working to identify genetic biomarkers that point to new therapies, or that can determine whether existing targeted drugs or immunotherapies could work for patients who are not now considered candidates,” he explains. “Those biomarkers could also help us determine which patients would be best suited for which clinical trials, potentially benefiting both the individual and the search for better cancer treatments.” Beyond DNA “Typos” To find such markers, Dr. Imielinski and his team look beyond the small “typos” in DNA, which is what many standard clinical assays and algorithms use to detect and characterize tumor cells. Instead, they investigate more-complex changes, such as rearrangements, copy number alterations, and the folding patterns of abnormal genomes within the nucleus of tumor cells. “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes,” he says. “Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes. Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” recent Nature study , for example, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used whole-genome sequencing to investigate the mechanisms behind homologous recombination (HR) deficiency, which is associated with faulty DNA repair. As a result, HR deficiency—and therefore susceptibility to certain DNA-damaging drugs—can be diagnosed by identifying characteristic patterns of mutations around the genome. Analyzing the genomes of thousands of BRCA1- and BRCA2-deficient cancers, the researchers identified a previously unknown class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements that can only be detected by whole-genome sequencing. Identifying tumors with these rearrangement patterns indicates specific backup repair mechanisms that may point to new therapeutic strategies for HR-deficient cancers. Translating Laboratory Findings into Clinical Breakthroughs Eventually, whole-genome-based methods could lead to more comprehensive molecular testing of tumors and to new drug targets, enabling personalized therapies to become standard of care for a wide variety of cancers. A whole-genome approach could also bring liquid biopsies that are more sensitive and specific, allowing earlier detection of metastases or relapses—and surer judgments of when treatment can be safely ended—than is possible with current tests. One reason for optimism, Dr. Imielinski observes, is the increasing affordability of whole-genome sequencing. “Until recently, the cost of sequencing a cancer genome was $5,000 to $10,000,” he says. “Thanks largely to expiring patents, costs have decreased fivefold, and they could fall below $100 in the next five years.” To make whole-genome cancer testing a practical reality, however, such assays and their reports will have to be tailored to the day-to-day needs of clinicians and healthcare systems. For this task, Dr. Imielinski and his colleagues can draw on deep institutional experience. In 2021, the Food and Drug Administration approved the NYU Langone Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test , a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in 607 genes simultaneously. Designed by Matija Snuderl, MD , director of molecular pathology in the Department of Pathology , the test converts complex data into a report that includes a suggested diagnosis and recommended treatments. It matches patients with approved therapies for a variety of solid tumors, with promising experimental treatments, and with ongoing clinical trials. And it seamlessly integrates with electronic medical records. Dr. Imielinski is working with Dr. Snuderl and other members of the Genome PACT team to follow a similar route to bring whole-genome-based tumor tests and liquid biopsies into routine clinical practice at NYU Langone. “In the United States, no other academic health system has taken the leap to this paradigm,” he notes. “We want to show that it works and to provide evidence that other people can follow.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, is an associate professor in the Department of Pathology and director of the Cancer Genomic Research Center. His research interests focus on expanding the clinical utility of whole-genome sequencing in oncology, including the development of software for analyzing and interpreting whole genomes. Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, and Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health The rapidly advancing field of molecular oncology has given researchers and clinicians increasingly detailed views of the drivers of tumor development and progression. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology aims to push the envelope on the standard of cancer care by ensuring that every patient receives liquid biopsies, enabling their tumor DNA to be sequenced. The molecular data will give clinicians at critical access to diagnostic information as well as more granular characterizations that can help them match each cancer to the best available therapies. Here, Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, an expert in cancer biology and DNA repair and the inaugural director of the Center for Molecular Oncology, and , Perlmutter Cancer Center’s director, discuss the new initiative’s unique aims and potential to scale up personalized cancer therapies across the medical center. What are your principal aims for the new center? The aim of this is to bring the ongoing advances in molecular analysis of cancers and the application of targeted therapies to NYU Langone, and use that as part of our standard approach to treating every patient with cancer. By integrating this new molecular information with multiple levels of data—including pathology, histology, radiology, and patient history—we can address key features like tumor behavior and response to therapy. In addition, we can clarify the basic biology and better understand how we classify and organize diseases to advance the field and develop new therapeutics. A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care.” Dr. Kimmelman: A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care. At Perlmutter Cancer Center, we have 11 sites. Regardless of where patients enter our system, they’ll have access to this expertise. How are you planning to do this? The goal is to develop an initial molecular profile of each tumor, while using serial liquid biopsies, DNA analysis, and other methods to monitor for changes. We’ll use the data not just for a diagnosis classification, but also to monitor for relapse, recurrence, and response to treatment. NYU Langone has deep strength in understanding tumor evolution by looking at the large volume of data coming from these molecular tools. The medical center also has the deep scientific expertise to use these findings to better understand tumor biology in the lab and do appropriate trials in the clinic. One of the amazing things about this center and the exercise we’re doing is that once you create both the physical and the IT infrastructure, every new test can automatically be implemented into this paradigm. Initially, there’s going to be a heavy reliance on liquid biopsies and DNA sequencing, with some transcriptomics. These are the techniques that are readily available and rapid. But we’re going to incorporate new tests as they become available, whether developed by our investigators or from other centers, and that next generation of tests will be far more sensitive and specific. How do you integrate all of that information and scale it up across a large medical center? Infrastructure is a huge part of this: it’s everything from computing power to data storage to the ability to make sure we have the consent of the patient to use all of their clinical information and integrate it into the medical record. Fortunately, we have an integrated medical record at all of our centers and we’re fully interconnected, giving us the foundation for further expansion. Artistic depiction of DNA structure alongside sequencing data. Source: Getty Images We also have a cancer data hub within Perlmutter Cancer Center. We’re recruiting a new leader to help expand it, because as you can imagine, we’re going to have a lot of information that will need to be integrated and utilized for diagnostics, other clinical purposes, and research. That means building up both the computing and the personnel infrastructure. What we want to create is a living dataset as opposed to a museum of stuff from the past. It’s like looking at a pressed flower versus a flower growing; it’s a very different approach. And now we have the technology to make this possible. It is essential to do this in an equitable and comprehensive fashion across the system, ensuring fair access for all as we take that next step to advance patient care. So how might this molecular characterization advance and transform cancer care? Right now, comprehensive molecular characterization of tumors is often used in the advanced setting to help guide treatments after everything else has failed. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis and classification of cancer for every patient. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis.” Once you understand the tumor’s molecular profile, you can do sophisticated studies like tumor-informed cell-free DNA (cfDNA) analysis to look at which patients are likely to experience cancer recurrence. This can be done even when the tumor is in an early stage or after it has been surgically removed. We can also identify who truly benefits—and when—from adjuvant therapy. We don’t know the answers to all of these questions yet, but we can start asking them. Dr. Kimmelman : A big part of our center is the expertise that Shridar brings in the molecular interpretation of the tests. We have tumor boards where we discuss changes in the CAT and MRI scans and we look at the pathology. But equally, if not more important, is taking this molecular data and integrating it into the overall picture. Shridar is going to lead center-wide molecular tumor boards for all of our physicians, where we can take this data and identify clinically relevant changes in the mutation profile. We’re going to be able to rapidly match patients to the best-available targeted therapies, but also to a suite of clinical trials tailored to their cancer’s molecular profile. Shridar, the team, and I are already developing a program where—in a single day—a patient with cancer can have their tumor biopsied, receive a pathological and molecular diagnosis, and leave with an oral medicine if there is a drug available for the target. We’re taking this to the next level. Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, is a professor of radiation oncology, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the Department of Radiation Oncology, and director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research centers on the biology of pancreatic cancer, with a focus on the metabolic processes fueling their growth. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage Dr. Fredrick Gulmi shares how the technique resolved a patient’s severe prostatic abscess faster than antibiotics alone. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Dr. Nnenaya Mmonu highlights a recurrent stricture after urethroplasty that was successfully treated with Optilume. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ Dr. Christopher Kelly presents a case of a 160-gram benign prostate hyperplasia treated using Aquablation. More from Urology Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation The largest five-year oncological outcomes study for primary PGCA reveals excellent cancer control. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting See the urology experts from NYU Langone Health who joined their international colleagues in San Antonio, May 3 to 6. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, affecting connective tissue, complicates how urogynecologists treat a common condition. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Urology Ranked #2 (tied) in Urology Top 5 in NIH funding (Source: Blue Ridge) Pioneers in MRI to evaluate prostate cancer Subscribe for Updates in Urology Care for Pulmonary Sarcoidosis Pulmonary sarcoidosis, also called lung sarcoidosis, causes inflammatory cells in the lungs called granulomas, which can affect lung function. Granulomas usually heal and disappear on their own. But when they don’t heal, the lung tissue can remain inflamed, and become scarred and stiff. This condition, called pulmonary fibrosis, changes the structure of the lungs and can affect your breathing. Bronchiectasis—in which pockets form in the air tubes of the lung and become infected—can also occur, though it is rare. To make an appointment with one of our pulmonologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Patients with lung sarcoidosis usually have shortness of breath, dry cough, chest pain, wheezing, and similar symptoms. Our pulmonologists, part of NYU Langone’s , evaluate your symptoms and may perform breathing tests, chest X-rays, CT scans, and other tests to confirm the diagnosis. Your pulmonary doctor may also choose to perform a bronchoscopy and biopsy of the lung. This is a way of sampling the lung tissue through a thin tube that is inserted through the mouth. On rare occasions, your doctor may need to perform a surgical lung biopsy to make the diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, your doctor conducts an examination to make sure that sarcoidosis has not affected other parts of your body, such as the heart, skin, or eyes. Based on this evaluation and consultation with other sarcoidosis specialists, your doctor recommends a course of treatment. Not all patients with sarcoidosis need treatment. For the majority, the inflammation heals on its own. If you do need additional treatment, which may include pills or injections, your doctor will discuss it with you and other providers involved in your care. Care for Cardiac Sarcoidosis Our specialists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program provide expert care for cardiac sarcoidosis, a serious condition that affects heart rhythms and function. Cardiac sarcoidosis occurs when groups of white blood cells, called granulomas, accumulate in the heart muscle. Cardiac sarcoidosis does not always cause symptoms, but when it does, it can affect the ability of the heart to pump blood as well as cause both abnormally fast and slow heart rhythms. To make an appointment with one of our cardiologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Symptoms of cardiac sarcoidosis include shortness of breath, swelling in the legs, dizziness, light-headedness, and loss of consciousness. It can be difficult to diagnose cardiac sarcoidosis, which is often mistaken for other forms of heart failure. Our heart experts, which include specialists in advanced heart failure , electrophysiology, and cardiac imaging, work together to identify cardiac sarcoidosis. Usually, a biopsy is performed to verify the diagnosis of sarcoidosis outside of the heart, followed by an PET/CT scan , echocardiograms, and rhythm monitoring, which are used to confirm cardiac involvement. Based on the diagnosis, we plan your individualized treatment strategy, to help reverse as well as prevent any further heart damage. Treatment includes standard heart failure medications as well as varying immunosuppressives, which are medications that help prevent the immune system from damaging healthy cells or tissue. To prevent dangerous arrhythmias, we may also recommend cardiac devices or ablations , the use of extreme heat or cold to destroy tissue causing the irregular heartbeat. We work with other specialists in the Sarcoidosis Program to provide comprehensive treatment for each individual. If needed, we refer patients to the . We are also conducting clinical research to advance care in cardiac sarcoidosis. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine For high-risk patients with gout, colchicine could lower the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis Multiomics is poised to unravel the disease’s early pathogenesis. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus NYU Langone specialists lead multi-institutional study to clarify safety of Shingrix vaccine in patients with SLE. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Study links symptom flare-ups with a specific gut bacterium and inflammation-associated genes. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus A clinical trial is set to resolve key uncertainties about curtailing treatment for patients in lupus remission. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA A pilot study is assessing whether gut microbes may predict and impact methotrexate effectiveness in rheumatoid arthritis. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Rheumatologist Dr. Jose U. Scher discusses his vision for a translational research collaborative. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rheumatology Ranked #9 in Rheumatology $29M in new research project value (2022) 166 faculty members “Most Talked About” in SLE Research Two studies led by Peter M. Izmirly, MD , were among Arthritis & Rheumatology ’s “Most Talked About Articles of 2021”: “Prevalence of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in the United States: Estimates From a Meta-Analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Lupus Registries.” “Evaluation of Immune Response and Disease Status in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients Following SARS–CoV-2 Vaccination.” Subscribe for Updates in Rheumatology Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Researchers harness artificial intelligence to better detect, prevent, and treat burnout and other pathologies. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Research explores the link between obstructive sleep apnea, social determinants of health, and cognitive decline. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Psychiatry High Performing in Psychiatry #5 rated residency program (Doximity) #6 in NIH research funding (Blue Ridge) Subscribe for Updates in Psychiatry Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Permanent implant system in patient with transfemoral amputation increases comfort, mobility, and limb strength. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics A longtime leader in surgical innovation, NYU Langone orthopedics traces its origins to pioneers of the field. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Meta-analysis confirms importance of surgery within first three days but reveals a nuanced time–outcome relationship thereafter. Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA Analysis of over 16,000 cases finds CAN has high accuracy and reliability, low complication rates for glenoid implantation. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement A higher risk of inpatient falls was tied to length of stay and revision rates, not to adductor canal blocks or tourniquets. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Multiple biologic augmentation strategies can aid mechanical robustness after cartilage injuries in the ankle joint. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement A new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities passes validation. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Orthopedics Ranked #3 in Orthopedics 34K+ orthopedic procedures performed annually orthopedic physician experts on faculty Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Muscle Reinnervation & Osseoanchored Prosthesis Implantation In the initial surgery, the surgeons performed targeted muscle reinnervation to restore nerves to the patient’s thigh and reduce his pain and phantom limb syndrome symptoms. Then in the distal end of his residual femur bone, they implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system, and used a bone graft harvested from the femur’s intramedullary canal to allow the bone to fill the gap and grow into the implant. Surgeons reinnervate the patient’s thigh muscles and implant the titanium connector. Attachment of Titanium Abutment to Osseoanchored Prosthetic Fixture In the second surgery, surgeons attached a titanium abutment to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture through a skin aperture to allow a connection to the external prosthesis. A delicate soft tissue surgery and complex closure with skin graft around the metal abutment ensured proper tightening of the patient’s thigh musculature, fat, and skin, allowing it to heal down to the metal and bone and remove all gaps. A new titanium abutment attaches to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture in the patient’s thigh. Fitting of Full Prosthetic Device After a few months of healing, the patient was fitted for the full prosthetic device in May 2023. Physical therapy helped him gain strength and confidence and he began relying less on assistive devices. The technique, initially developed for dental implants, can be used for both upper and lower limb prosthetics, and may significantly expand the range of options after amputation due to bone tumors. At a follow-up, the patient tries on the full prosthetic system. Subscribe for Updates in Orthopedics The Foundations of Orthopedic Surgery: From the Hospital for Joint Diseases to NYU Langone For a rich compilation of the history of orthopedics at our institution, see this recent issue of the Bulletin of the Hospital for Joint Diseases New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana A unique collaboration is focused on improving health outcomes for pregnant women and newborn children. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated Soaring rates recorded in recent years may reflect a methodological artifact, according to a new study. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Obstetrics & Gynecology Top Obstetrics & Gynecology Programs in the U.S. #1 clinical trials program* *#1 clinical trials program for gynecologic cancer patient recruitment in NYS (and ranks #10 nationally, according to the GOG Foundation) Baby-Friendly Hospitals** **NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Ruling Out Other Causes of Vaginal Pain After a woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone with persistent stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain, Dr. Rosenblum and Dr. Kirpekar ruled out causes such as interstitial cystitis, persistent genital arousal disorder, endometriosis, and a vaginal or urinary tract infection. Damage along the tri-branched pudendal nerve’s route through the pelvis can mimic many other conditions. A diagram of the 3 main terminal branches of the pudendal nerve. Asking Questions Key to Differential Diagnosis for Pudendal Neuralgia With no imaging or clinical diagnostic tests for pudendal neuralgia, asking detailed questions may be the best way to help diagnose it. “Vaginal birth can trigger it, and I always ask about a history of physical and/or sexual trauma, especially if the patient remembers when the pain started,” Dr. Rosenblum says. Another clue: Sitting for long periods can compress the nerve and worsen the pain. Five main diagnostic criteria for pudendal neuralgia. Pudendal Nerve Block: Both Diagnostic and Therapeutic After tests and questions pointed toward pudendal neuralgia, Dr. Kirpekar used an X-ray-guided nerve block to successfully diagnose and treat the patient. If effective, patients should report immediate pain relief, particularly the burning sensation. On average, her patients find relief from the medication for 6 months or more. If indicated, a pudendal nerve block can offer rapid relief—and a definitive diagnosis. Subscribe for Updates in Obstetrics & Gynecology Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy The Center for Children is one of the few programs to offer comprehensive care for children living with cerebral palsy. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital: A Leader in Advanced Pediatric Care Highest Level Children’s Surgery Verification from the American College of Surgeons Level IV NICU and Designated Regional Perinatal Center Comprehensive Transplant Care The only program in the tristate area to offer transplantation for all four solid organs: lungs, heart, liver, and kidneys. 1 of 4 2 of 4 3 of 4 4 of 4 Subscribe for Updates from Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Sign up for emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED NIH-funded research seeks to improve emergency care and wellbeing of persons with dementia. Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour The outpatient MILD procedure offers a promising alternative to open surgery. Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 NYC-area study ties increased noise to nighttime disturbances and altered sleep-wake cycles that accompanied new restrictions. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Geriatrics Ranked #2 in Geriatrics Est. 1981 as one of the first Geriatric Medicine fellowships in the U.S. NIA-funded Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Subscribe for Updates in Geriatrics Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD Population-based study finds increased odds of developing IBD among patients with a history of cardiovascular diagnoses. GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Impacts on inpatient care include reduced length of stay and an increase in general GI procedures. Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Researchers pinpoint GERD as an underrecognized comorbidity that may exacerbate chronic lung conditions. A Leader in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Ranked #5 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Best in New York State 1-year post liver transplant survival > 125 Whipple surgeries/year Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy A Tumor Atop the IVC A 73-year-old patient presented to NYU Langone Health with a pancreatic tumor sitting directly above the IVC. The patient was scheduled for a Whipple and qualified for a robotic approach. Imaging reveals a pancreatic tumor (yellow) located near the inferior vena cava (IVC). 1 of 5 Setting Up for Success The success of the robotic approach adopted at NYU Langone starts with patient positioning and port setup. A split-leg position allows the surgical assistant more access to the abdomen, improving efficiency and reducing fatigue. The surgical team emphasizes the benefit of refining port placement and instrument use as the robotic experience grows. Diagram of port placement. All ports are aligned in a row across the abdomen except one port by the left ribcage is moved up to ensure less interference during key suturing maneuvers. 2 of 5 A Clear View of the Critical Anatomy Surgeon Megan D. Winner, MD, performed the Whipple, which she typically begins by elevating the colon and dividing the attachments of the duodenum, enabling easier handling of the anatomy when addressing bleeding. Midway through, the camera location is changed from patient left to patient right, improving visualization and minimizing organ traction as the gallbladder is excised and the small bowel is moved away from the colon. Surgeon’s view, showing the proximity of the tumor (right) to the IVC (left). 3 of 5 Separating the Tumor from the IVC Separating the tumor from the IVC at the confluence of the LRV was the most vulnerable operative step. The robotic platform enabled this to be performed with perfect visualization and in a near-bloodless manner, proving superior to an open approach, and secured the ability to proceed with the robotic system. If the vessel had been involved directly, an open operation with reconstruction of the IVC would have been required. Surgeon’s view, showing the complete dissection of the IVC (left) and the left renal vein (LRV) (right) from underneath the tumor. 4 of 5 Reconstruction and Recovery During reconstruction, a connecting limb is extended below the colon to the pancreas, with another extended above the colon to the stomach, and adipose tissue is interposed. Dr. Winner speculates this separation lessens the impact of a pancreatic anastomosis leak, reduces the occurrence of delayed gastric emptying, shortens the length of stay, and has driven a reduced need for gastronomy tubes. This patient was discharged on postoperative day 4. Surgeon’s view during reconstruction and anastomosis following the Whipple procedure. 5 of 5 Subscribe for Updates in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight NYU Langone is the first institution in North America to acquire a CellChek C, a wide-field scanning specular microscope, for research under IRB approval. Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy From success with DSO to investigating ROCK inhibitors, NYU Langone specialists pioneer new approaches. New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis Optic nerve lesions may increase the diagnostic accuracy of MS and justify initiation of disease-modifying therapy. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Ophthalmology Honor Roll USNWR Best Hospitals Research Leader $4M+ in NIH funding, including the multi-center Zoster Eye Disease Study 100K+ annual patient visits Subscribe for Updates in Ophthalmology Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation The co-directors of the highly influential center discuss its impact on multiple strategies for addressing hearing loss Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery The chair of otolaryngology tells Doctor Radio why the future lies with robots, telesurgery, and AI. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Ranked #10 in Ear, Nose, & Throat 2021 NASBS Multidisciplinary Team of Distinction Cochlear implant surgeries performed each year Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Dr. Chris Ndoleriire, chair of the department at Makerere University, and Dr. Amina Seguya, attending otologist. Ugandan residents learning from NYU Langone chief resident Leena Asfour, MD. Ugandan residents learning procedures in the new cadaver temporal bone laboratory for the first time. Dr. Amina Seguya, an Ugandan attending physician, at an NYU temporal bone course. Subscribe for Updates in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches Teen with severe headaches due to occipital AVM cured by endovascular embolization combined with surgical resection. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Houston, September 28 to October 2. Explore Neurology Explore Neurosurgery A Leader in Neurology & Neurosurgery Ranked #1 in Neurology & Neurosurgery $1.5M+ funding for Neurosurgery clinical trials Top 10 for NIH funding in neurology (Blue Ridge) New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis In the theoretical case of a 24-year-old woman presenting to a hospital’s emergency department with blurred vision, some of the hallmark features pointed to a diagnosis of early multiple sclerosis (MS). Suggestive clinical findings also included an age of onset between 20 and 50 years, eye pain that worsened with eye movements, and visual loss occurring over several days to two weeks. Research has established five main clinical findings that point to optic neuritis in patients. Steven Galetta, MD, and colleagues have used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to help establish a key imaging criterion for diagnosing an optic neuropathy—and in the proper clinical setting, for diagnosing optic neuritis. The potential early manifestation of MS, they found, could be reliably identified through an asymmetry of five or more microns in the thickness between right and left optic nerves, which normally measure between 90 and 100 microns apiece. Imaging by OCT from an actual case shows an asymmetry of 21 microns between a patient’s right and left optic nerves: 75 versus 96 microns, respectively—a potential early sign ofoptic nerve impairment and multiple sclerosis. Researchers who identify the signs of optic neuritis must consider five main causes for the inflammation. Beyond MS, neuromyelitis optica and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibody-associated disease can present similarly. Systemic infections such as syphilis or Lyme disease can likewise impact the optic nerve while the inflammation sometimes fails to associate with any established cause. Differential diagnosis of optic neuritis must distinguish among multiple potential causes. Subscribe for Updates in Neurology & Neurosurgery One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery Precise assessment and individualized management help detect and treat brain disturbances early. Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities How a rehabilitation specialist applies a WHO framework to streamline care for pediatric patients. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rehabilitation Ranked #4 (tied) in Rehabilitation $7.1M+ research funding in 2021 250K+ annual outpatient visits The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant An Extraordinarily Complex Case In July 2018, a car accident left 22-year-old Joseph DiMeo with third-degree burns covering 89 percent of his body and post-traumatic facial deformity from composite tissue loss of the face. Additional diagnoses were severe neck contracture, bilateral partial facial paresis, respiratory failure, tracheostomy, and oral incompetence. Tissue loss had also caused vision loss and hearing impairment. In July 2018, Joseph DiMeo was in a car accident that changed the course of his life. A Pioneering Surgery Mr. DiMeo underwent approximately 20 reconstructive surgeries, yet still suffered extensive physical deficits, such as amputated fingertips, lips, and eyelids, and severe facial scarring. full face and bilateral forearm transplantation took approximately 23 hours and involved a team of more than 140 healthcare professionals, led by The combined full face and double hand transplant procedure was performed by Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, and the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery, in August 2020. Extensive Hospital Stays Post-surgery, Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his face for the first time. Dr. Rodriguez continued to monitor his progress and the many nerve and tissue grafts. Mr. DiMeo then remained inpatient at under the direction of Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his reconstructed face for the first time. Intensive Rehabilitation Program Rehabilitation demands extended far beyond face transplant to include new hand-based orthoses and exercises to improve hand and grip strength. The nursing team educated Mr. DiMeo on the importance of daily standing and walking, plus passive stretching to prevent contractures. Therapists also performed tissue massage to help remodel scar tissue on his forearms, hands, shoulders, and neck. Joe DiMeo’s rehabilitation protocols were created by physical and occupational therapists at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Hand Therapy and Fine Motor Dexterity Prior to rehabilitation, Mr. DiMeo’s serial opposition, or his ability to touch digits 2 through 5 to the tip of his thumb, was significantly impaired. After extensive work on his fine motor dexterity, his grip strength markedly improved, allowing him to complete fine motor tasks independently, such as the ability to pick up a utensil. April D. O’Connell, OT/L, clinical specialist for hand and upper extremity rehabilitation, designed a unique hand therapy protocol with the goal of getting Mr. DiMeo back to the activities of everyday life. Podcast: Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine Hear experts from NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation and other leaders from across the rehabilitation field discuss the latest in research, treatment options, and other timely topics on the Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast. Search “Rusk” on the Podcast app (Apple devices) or Stitcher (Android devices) to find the podcast and subscribe. Subscribe for Updates in Rehabilitation Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor For a salivary gland tumor uncommon in children, close pediatric and adult collaboration enables “a very elegant procedure.” Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Management of life-threatening clots combines pediatric ECMO and a novel mechanical thrombectomy approach. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Ranked #1 (tied) in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Global Destination for robotic thoracic surgery training Top Rated in COPD, Lung Cancer Surgery, and Pneumonia* *High performing in USNWR procedures and conditions Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Emergent Imaging Identifies Source of Cardiopulmonary Symptoms Imaging pinpoints the location of the pulmonary emboli. After experiencing chest pain, the patient was initially monitored by a local cardiologist via continuous electrocardiogram until the embolism was diagnosed emergently after the patient lost consciousness at home. A CT scan reveals a pulmonary embolism in the right and left main pulmonary arteries where they branch into the lungs. Further Imaging Supports Mechanical Thrombectomy Approach An angiogram of the lungs revealed pulmonary artery filling defects, resulting in near-total, flow-limiting occlusion to both lungs. With thrombolytic treatment contraindicated, mechanical thrombectomy was elected. A pulmonary angiogram reveals a large filling defect in the right and left main pulmonary arteries, limiting blood flow to the lungs. Successful Intervention Restores Circulation and Stabilizes Patient Further angiography following mechanical thrombectomy demonstrated returned flow through the lungs, confirming the procedure successfully resolved the blocked pulmonary arteries and restored circulation. A pulmonary angiogram of the left lung (a) before and (b) after mechanical thrombectomy. Subscribe for Updates in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Medical Dermatology Services Medical dermatologists at NYU Langone specialize in treating a wide range of conditions that affect the skin, nails, mucous membranes, and hair. Our patients are referred to us by other dermatologists and from around the world because of our expertise in both complex and routine dermatologic conditions. Our experts use advanced technology to diagnose and treat a variety of dermatologic conditions for adults and children. Our doctors partner with you to understand your symptoms in order to make an accurate diagnosis. We provide dermatologic care to adults of all ages, and to children through our In our state-of-the-art dermatology suites, our doctors use advanced technology that allows them to perform procedures at any of our convenient locations. Our dermatologists are also actively involved in scientific research, which gives them access to groundbreaking treatments for a variety of conditions. Our Medical Dermatology Specialties NYU Langone dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting the skin, including the following: allergic and contact dermatitis basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma , and rarer skin cancers , including hemangiomas and moles connective tissue diseases, including , rashes, and environmental and occupational skin disorders and urticaria pigmented skin lesions, such as moles and atypical nevi nail disorders skin infections and other pigmentation disorders fungal infections warts Our Medical Dermatology Team Our dermatologists have vast experience treating a broad range of skin conditions, and work together to provide compassionate, individualized care. Amy K. Bieber, MD Roger Ho, MD, MPH Efe E. Kakpovbia, MD Mario Lacouture, MD Onco-Dermatology Jo-Ann M. Latkowski, MD Jackleen S. Marji, MD, PhD Arielle R. Nagler, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology Peter E. O'Neill, MD Miriam K. Pomeranz, MD Deborah Porges, MD Erin Schoor, MD Louis J. Siegel, D.O. Ian W. Tattersall, MD, PhD Jason G. Weed, MD Nicole Weiler, MD Julie H. Wu, MD John G. Zampella, MD Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joining international colleagues in Atlanta, April 6 to 8. Explore Cardiology Explore Heart Surgery A Leader in Cardiology and Heart Surgery in Heart & Vascular One-year heart transplant survival rate 5,000+ Transcatheter Aortic Valves (TAVRs) MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack Dr. Harmony G. Reynolds and a research team are proving that OCT and cardiac MRI and can clarify why many women have heart attacks without coronary artery narrowing. Read the interview. Subscribe for Updates in Cardiology & Heart Surgery Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome Simple scoring system may help prevent or mitigate risk of hungry bone syndrome after parathyroidectomy. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Drawing on a background in fine art, Dr. Michael Natter advocates for the many benefits of art in medicine. Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes Study finds eating meals earlier may help prevent diabetes and reduce glycemic variability. A Leader in Diabetes & Endocrinology in Diabetes & Endocrinology for Diabetes Care* AHA Research Network AHA Strategically Focused Research Network for Cardiometabolic Health Subscribe for Updates in Diabetes & Endocrinology Center for Amputation Reconstruction Team The care team at the offers support and treatment for people experiencing phantom limb sensation, neuroma pain, and pain and discomfort resulting from ill-fitting prostheses. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD Hand & Wrist Surgery, Orthoplastic Surgery Dr. Hacquebord is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon and accomplished microsurgeon with extensive experience in flap and free-tissue reconstruction of the upper and lower extremity. He holds dual appointments as assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery as well as the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery at NYU Langone. He is also co-chief of the Hand Surgery Service at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Omri B. Ayalon, MD Dr. Ayalon is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon specializing in surgery of the hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder with emphasis on nerve surgery, reconstructive procedures, and trauma. He is an assistant clinical professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Prosthetists YoniDiamond, CPO Mr. Diamond first became interested in the field of prosthetics and helping to restore people’s function and confidence during his service in the Peace Corps. He specializes in bracing and prosthetics and enjoys helping patients achieve their goals and regain their confidence. LauraKatzenberger, CP, LP Ms. Katzenberger helps patients who need upper limb prosthetics, working with a wide range of upper limb prosthetic components. She believes in an integrated, multidisciplinary approach that includes the prosthetist, occupational therapist, and technicians so patients receive customized care. She also helps educate therapists, physicians, and case managers about the effect that successfully created upper limb prosthetics can have on the lives of patients. Tom Passero, CP Mr. Passero had his leg amputated below the knee in 1974, an experience that inspired him to become a prosthetist. His focus in on advanced prosthetic technologies, such as microprocessor-controlled knees and bionic hands and fingers for people with unique upper limb prosthetic needs. He also leads discussions on upper limb prostheses with surgeons, physiatrists, occupational and physical hand therapists, and case managers. John Rheinstein, CP, FAAOP(D) Mr. Rheinstein is a board-certified prosthetist whose focus is restoring gait and grasp function in patients with limb loss. He specializes in complex upper and lower limb prosthetics and provides immediate postoperative care. He divides his time between providing care for people who need prosthetic devices and researching and testing new products. He also presents at academic conferences, teaches continuing education courses, publishes in textbooks and professional journals, and trains prosthetic residents. WR WendyRazzi Ms. Razzi is clinical coordinator at the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. She was born and raised in New York City and has been working in orthopedic surgery for 10 years. She is passionate about assisting in providing excellent patient care. In her spare time, she enjoys long-distance running, hiking, and fishing. We have doctors located throughout the New York City area. Our internationally recognized team of experts in NYU Langone’s Liver Care and Transplant Program works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and care for individuals who have liver disease. As part of the program, our liver specialists—called hepatologists—collaborate closely with our liver surgeons, liver transplant surgeons, interventional radiologists, medical oncologists, nutritionists, and other specialists to ensure that you receive the very best in personalized, advanced care, which is provided in a coordinated and compassionate manner. Our experts also work closely with specialists from NYU Langone’s for people who need treatment for liver cancer. Types of Liver Diseases The term liver disease refers to a number of conditions that can include: cirrhosis fibrosis non-alcoholic steatohepatitis State-of-the-Art Liver Tests and Procedures People who have liver disease need highly specialized, coordinated, and personalized care. Our NYU Langone liver specialists offer the most advanced diagnostic tests and endoscopic and surgical procedures, including: endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) liver biopsy liver surgery liver transplantation surgery paracentesis radioembolization transarterial chemoembolization transient elastography (FibroScan) transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) upper endoscopy with band ligation In addition to these tests and procedures, we offer advanced medical therapies for all liver conditions. For patients in need of a , our transplant hepatologists, transplant surgeons, and other specialists at NYU Langone's Transplant Institute provide care from initial referral through treatment and recovery. Our modern facilities include state-of-the-art testing sites, dedicated inpatient surgical and intensive care units, and outpatient physician offices. Our liver experts provide involving screening, prevention, and treatment for people with cirrhosis, hepatitis, liver cancer, and other liver conditions. These research efforts not only offer investigative new treatment options for our patients, but also contribute to advancements in science that will lead to improved treatment and care for future patients. To make an appointment with one of our gastroenterologists or hepatologists for treatment of liver disease, please call 212-263-3643. To schedule an evaluation for liver transplant, please call 212-263-8133. Our internationally recognized team of liver specialists works together to provide state-of-the-art diagnosis, advanced treatment, and compassionate care for people who have liver disease. Lung & Liver Transplant Surgery Gives Dad Back a Normal Life Renowned Specialists Expand Liver Disease Programs NYU Langone’s Lupus Center provides patients with access to expert doctors and focused researchers. We use the most advanced diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for autoimmune diseases, often based on our experts’ own research findings. The center puts special emphasis on autoimmune disease as it affects pregnancy and on clinical trials for new treatments that may decrease overactive immune cells, reduce pathogenic autoantibodies that attack healthy tissue, and identify biomarkers that predict flare-ups and a patient’s response to therapy. Our rheumatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating patients with lupus. Pulmonary Intervention for Airway Conditions Interventional pulmonologists at NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program work with thoracic surgeons and head and neck surgeons to diagnose and manage airway conditions. These conditions include tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), tracheal stenosis, tracheoesophageal fistula, and tracheal or bronchial tumors, which can be noncancerous or cancerous, including carcinoid tumors. Our interventional pulmonologists specialize in bronchoscopy to evaluate, diagnose, and treat airway conditions. During bronchoscopy, a long, flexible tube with a camera on its end is placed through the mouth and into the trachea and bronchi. Interventional pulmonologists may also use a rigid bronchoscope to evaluate the airways and perform therapeutic interventions. The bronchoscope helps the care team view tissue in the airways, biopsy tissue, and perform minimally invasive treatments that do not require incisions or surgery. Advanced Diagnostic Tests To diagnose airway conditions, interventional pulmonologists use the following specialized tools and tests: a rigid bronchoscope with a beveled edge, which allows doctors to remove deeper tissue samples than flexible bronchoscopy and to place stents to keep the airway open, helping to assess whether surgery is a treatment option endobronchial ultrasound, which uses an ultrasound device to assess whether a tumor is growing into the many layers of the airway robotic bronchoscopy, during which an ultrathin scope using a precise navigation system finds and biopsies lesions deep in the airways narrow-band imaging or autofluorescence—imaging techniques that enhance the view of the tracheal and bronchial lining and help determine whether tumor tissue is present Pathologists evaluate tissue samples taken for biopsy to determine whether tumors are cancerous or benign. If a tumor is cancerous, our doctors may collaborate with specialists at NYU Langone to create your care plan. Interventional Approaches to Care Our interventional pulmonologists treat airway conditions in several different ways. These approaches, delivered through a bronchoscope, include the following: thermal therapy, which uses intense cold or heat to destroy tracheal or bronchial tissue that may be obstructing the airway steroid injections or topical mitomycin, a type of chemotherapy used to decrease tissue inflammation or growth that can be associated with tracheal stenosis endoscopic stent placement to seal a tracheoesophageal fistula or to open the airway in people who have tracheal stenosis or TBM; if a stent improves symptoms of TBM, surgery may be the next step in treatment photodynamic therapy, which uses lasers to destroy tumor cells after medication has made them sensitive to light Our doctors may also recommend continuous positive airway pressure therapy, commonly known as CPAP, which uses pressurized air to hold the airways open to manage some cases of TBM. If an interventional pulmonary procedure is not the best treatment option for managing an airway condition, our doctors may discuss the possibility of airway surgery with you. 212-598-2374 VEXAS Syndrome Care Program At NYU Langone’s Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program, the geneticists, rheumatologists, and certified genetic counselors on our team care for adults and children with autoinflammatory conditions whose symptoms are severe or whose cause is unknown. We use both genetic testing and research-based analysis to identify the underlying genetic causes of these conditions. Using this information, we work to provide the most-advanced targeted therapies, counseling about how the condition may develop and change over time, as well as risk assessment for other family members. Our team specializes in autoinflammatory conditions in which inflammation recurs without clear signs of infection, autoimmune disease, or cancer, including the following: VEXAS syndrome, a rare but serious condition that can cause unexplained symptoms throughout the body, such as fever and fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, coughing or shortness of breath, and Learn more about how we care for people with VEXAS syndrome periodic fever syndromes, which are conditions characterized by recurring fevers not caused by an infection severe, unexplained inflammation that causes symptoms in the bone marrow, lungs, cartilage, or skin Our experts evaluate the underlying genetic cause of autoimmune diseases with the goal of improving care for children and adults If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please call us at View All Locations (5) Interventional radiologists at NYU Langone are leaders in the use of minimally invasive surgical techniques that provide patients with an alternative to open surgery. This approach allows complex procedures to be performed in the arteries, veins, and almost every organ in the body. Our interventional radiologists are experts in minimally invasive surgical techniques. How Interventional Radiology Works Interventional radiologists are doctors who use X-ray, fluoroscopy, ultrasound, or CT scan imaging technology to guide small, specialized instruments through the body, allowing them to treat a wide variety of conditions affecting the blood vessels and organs. The techniques allow targeted therapies and procedures to be done quickly and safely, resulting in less discomfort, quicker recovery, and better results compared to open procedures. At NYU Langone, our physician team of interventional radiologists is supported by a group of specialized nurses and technologists. Interventional Radiology Treatments The list of medical conditions that can be treated by interventional radiology is constantly growing. Interventional radiology procedures can be used to treat cancer and improve blood circulation, among other things. Our interventional radiologists provide the following treatments: intra-arterial therapies including transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) and Y90 radioembolization to treat thermal ablation to treat non-small cell lung cancer, , and soft tissue cancers balloon angioplasty, atherectomy, and stenting to treat limb salvage procedures to treat critical limb ischemia, which causes chronic foot pain or ulcers that do not heal balloon angioplasty and stenting to treat chronic venous disease inferior vena cava filter and catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat catheter-directed thrombolysis to treat by delivering clot-busting medicine directly to the clot prostate artery embolization to treat urinary symptoms related to embolization to treat gonadal vein embolization to treat varicoceles in men and in women Our doctors are board-certified specialists in interventional radiology. Frederic J. Bertino Hillel B. Bryk Beatriz Escobar RH Ryan M. Hickey Jason C. Hoffmann Vinay N. Kikkeri Shu Liu UL Umair Lodhi Anuj Malhotra Amir Noor Vikram Rajpurohit Mikhail Silk Our Locations (5) NYU Langone Interventional Radiology—Mineola 222 Station Plaza, Suite 140, Mineola, NY, 11501 Blood Conservation Techniques & Tools Through a team-based approach, experts at NYU Langone’s work closely across a range of specialties, including the following: allergy and anesthesiology and and endocrinology cardiology and dermatology and endovascular surgery and vascular surgery maternal fetal medicine oncology and hematology internal medicine and critical care neurology and and pulmonary medicine We choose the patient blood management techniques and tools that are right for you based on your needs, beliefs, and preferences, both before and during surgery. Aquamantys System The Aquamantys® System includes a generator and bipolar sealers that use radiofrequency energy and saline to seal soft tissue and bone, during or after surgery. This device helps to control bleeding and can be used during different types of surgeries. Argon Beam Coagulator An argon beam coagulator helps to control bleeding during surgery. An electric current is passed through a beam of argon gas and directed at the bleeding tissue to help blood quickly coagulate, or clot. Blood Salvage Techniques Our blood salvage, or cell salvage, techniques include the use of a device called the Cell Saver® that involves collecting lost blood, filtering it, and recycling it so it can be reinfused back into the body. This is generally used during or after surgical procedures in which a significant amount of blood loss is expected, eliminating the need for a blood transfusion. Electrocautery Electrocautery is a process in which a metal wire electrode generates heat to quickly seal blood vessels and reduce or stop bleeding during surgery or after an injury. Harmonic Scalpel Unlike a regular scalpel that is used to cut tissues during surgery, a harmonic scalpel uses ultrasound technology to cut and seal at the same time, causing blood to clot almost immediately. This reduces blood loss during surgery. Heart–Lung Machine A heart–lung machine is used during heart surgery to recirculate and oxygenate the patient’s own blood before directing it back into the body, reducing the need for blood transfusions. Hemodilution and Volume Expanders Hemodilution is a blood conservation technique that dilutes blood before surgery using intravenous (IV) fluids, or volume expanders, helping to minimize blood loss. Acute normovolemic hemodilution involves removing some of the blood just before dilution and returning it after the surgical procedure is completed. Medications to Conserve Blood We also use medications that help conserve blood and minimize blood loss during surgery. These include hemostatic drugs that help improve blood clotting, and synthetic erythropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to produce enough red blood cells to avoid transfusion. Minimally Invasive Surgery Techniques Our surgeons are experts in minimally invasive robotic surgery, using the da Vinci® Si and da Vinci® Xi surgical robots, which allows us to make smaller incisions that minimize blood loss. SpHb Noninvasive Hemoglobin Monitor The SpHb® hemoglobin monitor is a noninvasive device that provides continuous information about changes in hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. With this device, our surgeons receive real-time data that can help reduce the number of times we need to draw blood. VAMP System The VAMP™ system helps reduce blood loss when surgeons are taking blood samples during surgery. Typically, the blood that has been sampled and checked needs to be discarded. This closed system allows the sample that would have be wasted to be returned to the patient. Placenta Accreta Program Bolsters Comprehensive Maternal & Perinatal Care Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, and Fady Khoury Collado, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Addressing the risk associated with placenta accreta requires early imaging-based diagnosis and comprehensive, highly coordinated care. NYU Langone’s new program emphasizes the collaboration and evidence-based tools needed to plan for expected deliveries as well as medical emergencies. Program co-directors also plan to pursue research and postdelivery uterine preservation to improve patient outcomes. On a Saturday afternoon several weeks before her due date, a pregnant woman with a history of two prior cesarean sections was rushed to NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn with heavy bleeding. She’d previously received a diagnosis of placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) disorder from maternal–fetal medicine specialist Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD , after imaging revealed a placenta previa and evidence of placental vessels within her uterus and her bladder. In patients with PAS, attempting to separate the placenta from the wall of the uterus can trigger massive and life-threatening hemorrhage. In this case, the prenatal bleeding that prompted the patient’s presentation to the hospital was likely due to the dilatation of her cervix from premature labor, exposing the placental bed in the setting of the placenta previa. The multidisciplinary care team, including Lindsey Buchin, MD Rebecca H. Jessel, MD Brian D. Taussig, MD , quickly mobilized and helped deliver a premature but healthy baby via cesarean section. Gynecologic oncologist Fady Khoury Collado, MD , was then able to safely perform a complicated hysterectomy, removing the uterus and the placenta while preserving the integrity of the patient’s bladder despite placental invasion. The resolution of this complex case exemplifies the systematic approach to imaging, early diagnosis, and coordinated care offered by NYU Langone’s new Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. “We’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery.” “Through this program, we’re giving every physician who’s practicing maternal–fetal medicine the tools by which to identify this disease early on, and then make a plan for a safe delivery,” says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “It’s really a quality initiative from the get-go.” From Early Diagnosis to Coordinated Care One of the biggest risk factors for PAS is a history of cesarean sections. For women like the presenting patient, with placenta previa and a history of two prior cesareans, the risk of placenta accreta is as high as 40 percent . “With an estimated incidence of 1 in every 272 pregnancies , we’re seeing an exponential rise in the condition, tracking with the rising rate of C-sections,” says Dr. Jessel. Building on NYU Langone’s long-standing success in maternal and perinatal care, the new program aims to not only boost early diagnosis for PAS and strengthen the necessary care coordination across multiple specialties, but also improve long-term health outcomes. “We have a top-notch multidisciplinary team with the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition,” says Dr. Khoury Collado, who with Dr. Jessel serves as a program co-director. “We have the experience and expertise to handle patient referrals for what can be an exceedingly complicated and high-risk condition.” A central focus of the program is on educating and training staff, including the maternal–fetal medicine team and ultrasound technologists, on evidence-based diagnostic and treatment protocols. Early imaging and diagnosis, in turn, allow for two comprehensive care plans: one based on everything proceeding as expected, and a second that accounts for various what-if scenarios, says Dr. Mehta-Lee. “You always have both. But without identification, we can’t save women’s lives,” she says. To manage PAS, doctors generally deliver the baby via a planned C-section, being careful not to disrupt the placenta. They leave the placenta attached to the uterus and then remove it and the entire uterus together via a hysterectomy. “Despite that, it’s still considered a high-risk surgery with a high risk of bleeding, requiring several teams to work together,” says Dr. Khoury Collado. The new program is helping to bolster that essential coordination of prenatal care and surgical planning leading up to the day of delivery. At NYU Langone, multidisciplinary care for patients with PAS routinely involves neonatologists, an experienced nursing team, maternal–fetal medicine specialists, obstetrical anesthesiologists, gynecological oncologists, interventional radiologists, urologists, and the blood bank. “It really does take a village,” Dr. Jessel says. A Launchpad for Improving Outcomes Initial sites for the program include NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and Tisch Hospital in Manhattan, with plans for expansion across NYU Langone. As a trauma center, NYU Langone—Brooklyn has ready access to blood supplies and trauma surgeons, Dr. Mehta-Lee emphasizes, allowing it to offer emergency PAS care to a highly diverse patient population. The new program is designed to assess the care team’s needs and ensure rapid, reliable access to these trauma tools and services. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward.” As a long-term goal, Dr. Khoury Collado hopes to further improve patient outcomes by increasing the potential for uterine preservation. “Removing the uterus has a lot of psychological and physical health–related consequences. Avoiding that removal is a goal we think we can achieve in some cases,” he says. In the meantime, the co-directors plan to incorporate an academic research arm to better understand and characterize the disorder. From the clinical side, they hope to involve NYU Langone’s mental health services and a community health worker or patient navigator to guide patients through the complicated diagnosis and multistep care process. “We want to develop a systematic approach to imaging and early diagnosis, and a launchpad to help push the field forward,” Dr. Jessel says. Maternal-Fetal Medicine Rebecca H. Jessel, MD, is a member of the faculty in obstetrics and gynecology and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. She specializes in placental development and function and in treating preeclampsia and placenta accreta spectrum. Fady Khoury Collado, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, section chief of Gynecologic Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and co-director of the Placenta Accreta Diagnosis and Treatment Program. He specializes in treating gynecologic cancers and placenta accreta spectrum. Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, MD, is clinical associate professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NYU Langone Health, and site director for the Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. She is a National Institutes of Health-funded clinical investigator for the National Environmental Children’s Health Outcomes study, which seeks to investigate the effects of environmental exposures on childhood health outcomes. Providing an Inclusive Path to Pregnancy Justin S. Brandt, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Justin S. Brandt, MD Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Health, is a national leader in advancing obstetric care that supports individuals with diverse gender identities. He previously served on the Diversity and Inclusion in the Workforce Committee for the Society of Maternal and Fetal Medicine, developing guidelines and shaping best practices for inclusive care. Here, Dr. Brandt shares insights from his years of experience supporting transgender and gender-diverse patients through pregnancy. A Call to Do Better What put you on the path of working with transgender and gender-diverse patients? Dr. Brandt: Raising a child who is gender diverse opened my eyes to some of the challenges faced by people who are not cisgender. As an obstetrician and maternal–fetal medicine subspecialist, I realized that there are even more challenges in front of transgender men and gender-diverse people during pregnancy. Pregnancy tends to be a very gendered process, but it doesn’t have to be. I realized that most of the care I was providing was focused on cisgender and heterosexual people. As a result of often-incorrect assumptions, I was not creating a welcoming environment for other people with birthing potential. As I learned more about the unique needs of transgender and gender-diverse people, I knew I could do better. I knew that my field of medicine could do better. And I’ve been motivated to work towards this goal—of providing affirming care for all people—for the last 10 years. Defining Affirming Care What does affirming pregnancy care look like for transgender and gender-diverse people? So much of the care that we provide for people who have diverse gender identities in pregnancy is the same as the care we provide to cisgender people. However, there are important differences too. So many people with diverse identities have had negative experiences in a traditional healthcare setting. As a result, many do not want to come to our offices for care. At NYU Langone, we are working to change that. We have worked to ensure that every member of our team is equipped to care for people with diverse identities. Through trainings, as well as changes in our physical practice, we are creating clinical spaces that are more welcoming. “Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires.” Affirming care is care that responds to an individual’s unique needs and desires. If someone is going to be pregnant and feels like a father or some other nonmother identity, we want to affirm their unique identity during pregnancy. Communication Is Critical When it comes to obstetric care, how can healthcare providers foster a welcoming and inclusive environment? In order to create an inclusive environment, we have to listen to our patients. When patients speak about their prior experiences and their goals for pregnancies, we must listen. This is how we develop care plans that are unique for each person. We then take those care plans and follow them—from the outpatient setting, where prenatal care starts, to labor and delivery, and ultimately to our postpartum floor, which we inclusively call the family care suite Another part of building an inclusive environment is making sure that people know that we want to care for all people at NYU Langone. Our clinical team at and across our health system has the skills and the desire to care for everyone who can get pregnant. Gender identity is a very personal topic; patients may find it hard to share their pregnancy care needs. As a provider, how do you create space for patients to discuss their desires during pregnancy? I think communication is key here. It’s so critical that patients have the experiences that they’re looking for, experiences that affirm their unique identities. But providers can’t know a patient’s goals or desires for pregnancy if there isn’t open communication. I’m often encouraging patients to talk with me—and their other doctors—about what they’re looking for in their birthing experience. “I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy.” A man who is transgender may have spent much of his life moving away from the gender associated with the sex he was assigned at birth. For some people, being pregnant or just coming to the obstetrician can be triggering. As an affirming provider, I know this can be hard for many. But I also know that we can find ways to allow people to be their true selves during pregnancy. The Impact on Patients Can you share an example of a compassionate and inclusive interaction with a patient where the approach noticeably improved the patient’s care and overall experience? I just recently cared for someone with a nonbinary identity. The patient told me about their challenges trying to get pregnant and navigating doctors who didn’t understand them. I built trust in small ways—I asked questions about their gender identity, their pronouns, and their goals. At the end of the meeting, the patient told me that they felt heard for the first time in a doctor’s office. They didn’t think it was possible to have this type of experience with doctors. It was one of the first times in this person’s life that a healthcare provider had the knowledge to care for their unique needs and to help them achieve the healthcare experience that they were looking for. It was a very rewarding experience for me and one that I look forward to sharing with other patients as well. A Commitment to Inclusivity What are we not currently addressing that could make obstetrics and gynecology a more inclusive space? Obstetrics and the birthing process can be highly gendered. I think one of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women feel comfortable coming to us for care. This means changing the way we engage with patients at the front desk. This means changing the way we engage with patients when we provide care. This means providing care that allows people with nonbinary identities to have a birthing experience that affirms their identities. “One of the great obstacles for us as obstetricians is making people who don’t identify as women but who have the potential to get pregnant feel comfortable coming to us for care.” NYU Langone has one of the best medical schools in the country, and we’re teaching the next generation of physicians how to provide affirming care, how to show respect for patients with diverse needs, and how to provide world-class care for all people. I am honored to be part of this academic team. Another area that comes to mind is research. Traditional research has focused on people with binary identities—women and men. There’s a lot of research looking at obstetrical outcomes of women with various risk factors for pregnancy complications. This type of research has excluded people with nonbinary identities who get pregnant. The obstetric research community is starting to realize how to perform research that captures all people with birthing potential. In time, and with the adoption of inclusive research practices, we will be able to provide better care for all people and to address the unique needs of people with birthing potential who are women, men, and other identities. Justin S. Brandt, MD, is director of the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine. His research interests include bibliometrics, inclusive best practices, obstetric ultrasound, and maternal and fetal complications. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Dr. Jonathan Gerber on the path to leadership, his swift pivot during COVID, and his priorities as a chief clinical officer. Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Division director Dr. Gary Deutsch shares his vision for elevating cancer care on Long Island. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Radiation oncologist Dr. Jonathan Yang discusses the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Acclaimed breast surgeon Dr. Mary Gemignani discusses her approach to leadership, education, and holistic care. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care Eugenia Montesinos, CNM. Source: NYU Langone Health. Midwives’ natural approach to care was the most prevalent method to childbirth until the 18th century, when clinical institutions began challenging their approach. They regained their strength in the 1960s, during the consumer childbirth revolution, and continue to fulfill an important role in women’s healthcare. Research shows that outcomes improve for parents and their babies when they have access to midwifery care, including reduced rates of preterm birth, low birth weight, cesarean birth, and neonatal death. To address growing demand, the division of midwifery services is rapidly ramping up throughout NYU Langone Health’s Brooklyn and Manhattan campuses. Here, Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, discusses her new role as director of . She also highlights the importance of having the midwifery option for pregnant patients and the impact on maternal outcomes. Offering Pregnant Patients Another Option You are NYU Langone’s first director of midwifery services. What is your new role, and why has this position been created? Montesinos: I will be overseeing the hospital-based midwifery program at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, leading a team of seven board-certified midwives (both certified nurse midwives, CNMs, and certified midwives, CMs). We will cover labor and delivery in the hospital 24/7, seven days per week. As midwives, which means “with woman,” we advocate for physiological birth whenever possible and the judicious use of intervention only when medically necessary. We offer holistic support, empowering women to make informed choices while ensuring their physical, emotional, and social needs are met through every step of this transformative journey. As in-house care providers, we care for low-risk pregnant patients with a completely holistic approach. For high-risk patients seeking care from a midwife, we provide co-managed, collaborative care in partnership with our physician team, including general obstetricians and maternal–fetal medicine physicians. Andrew F. Rubenstein, MD , director of the Division of General Obstetrics and Gynecology, saw the necessity to provide hospital-based midwifery care. More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. My role was created because we wanted to offer the option to low-risk pregnant patients. “More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. We wanted to offer that option to low-risk pregnant patients.” Eugenia Montesinos, CNM Patients Seek a Trusted Confidant What do patients tell you they want and need from midwifery care? Montesinos Midwifery care emphasizes pregnancy as a natural physiologic process, and women are driving the demand of this kind of care. What truly defines midwifery care is the individualized approach. Midwives are more than providers. We are supporters, confidants, and advocates for the women we serve. Women tell us they want the personalized labor and delivery approach we provide, but they also like knowing an obstetrician team is available in the hospital in case they need medical intervention. Support Through Pregnancy and Beyond How will these services fit in with the broader OB/GYN healthcare structure? In addition to managing labor and deliveries at Tisch Hospital in collaboration with the OB/GYN team, we provide routine obstetric and gynecologic care to women at the . Midwives can provide prenatal care and conduct wellness visits and pelvic exams, diagnose and treat gynecologic conditions, and provide contraception and preventive care and screenings through all phases of life, from adolescence to the postreproductive years. Expanding Exemplary Maternal Care What are your top priorities for your role and the department? I aspire to set new standards of excellence in care. I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey. “I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey.” As midwives, we strive to empower and nurture women through one of life’s most significant experiences, ensuring they feel supported, informed, and cherished every step of the way. My top priority is to provide the midwifery care model to every woman seeking this form of care and to introduce this model to those seeking alternative options, such as first-time mothers and mothers seeking care after a cesarean birth. Midwifery, Obstetrics and Gynecology Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, is the director of midwifery services at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital. She has provided midwifery care for over 23 years in private practices and hospitals across various New York City boroughs, including NYC Health + Hospitals, the largest municipal healthcare delivery system in the United States. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors The minimally invasive approach offers a promising, nonsurgical alternative for benign and cancerous nodules. PHOTO: Getty Images In use for over a decade in Europe and Asia, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) was FDA approved in 2018 for treatment of soft tissue tumors, paving the way for use in the thyroid. In the thyroid, it is most commonly used for benign nodules or nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. Benefits include elimination or reduction of the nodule and associated symptoms, enabling patients to discontinue medications otherwise necessary to control hyperthyroidism, via a minimally invasive outpatient procedure typically performed in under an hour. Additionally, there is accumulating evidence supporting RFA’s efficacy for small intrathyroidal cancers that otherwise would be treated with surgery, says , a professor of medicine in endocrinology. Both Dr. Hodak and , chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery, are founding members of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, a newly established group advocating for the use and evolution of such minimally invasive methods as RFA. “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases.” “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases,” says Dr. Hodak. “It can offer clear benefits as an alternative to standard surgery in appropriately selected patients.” Precisely Targeted Treatment NYU Langone Health is an early adopter of RFA for thyroid tumors, among the first in a growing number of centers offering the approach in and beyond New York. The ablation procedure involves a seven inch needle with an active electrode at the tip used to deliver high-frequency energy. The patient is usually lightly sedated. Using continous ultrasound visualization, the physician positions the needle in the thyroid nodule, where the energy is applied in a targeted manner to destroy tumor tissue without damaging surrounding structures. “The key to success in RFA is being skilled enough to completely destroy the nodule, whether a benign symptomatic nodule, a hyperfunctioning nodule that causes hyperthyroidism, or a small cancer,” says Dr. Patel. “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “We use something called the moving shot technique,” notes Dr. Hodak. “This involves repositioning the needle within the nodule with almost stereotactic precision, so that energy is delivered throughout the entire volume of the nodule until most or all of the tumor tissue has been destroyed.” Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel work in collaboration with Chelsey K. Baldwin, MD . During a procedure, one physician delivers the therapy while another physician and a medical assistant support any needs that arise during treatment. A Promising Option for Complex Cases The team’s first RFA case was a uniquely complex one involving a 60-year-old female patient with thyroid cancer. The patient had near complete vocal cord paralysis and a severely compromised airway. As she was considered high-risk for complete vocal cord paralysis with further surgery, her slow-growing thyroid cancer had been followed without treatment. When the patient developed kidney failure, the active thyroid cancer precluded eligibility for the transplant waitlist. With surgery contraindicated, Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel recommended RFA. The successful procedure completely extirpated the thyroid cancer and the patient became eligible for a renal transplant. “It was one of the most complicated cases we’ve ever done, and it was the first,” says Dr. Hodak. “Among all patients we’ve ever treated with RFA, it illustrated the power of this approach. RFA allowed the patient to have a life-sustaining kidney transplant.” Dr. Hodaks says that, in general, patients who have RFA report symptomatic improvement within one to two weeks. Incremental tumor reduction is typically as high as 50 percent at six months and 90 percent within one year. Envisioning Future Applications The team expresses confidence that RFA will continue to gain traction for a range of thyroid applications. “RFA is exploding in the U.S. because the need for it is so appreciated,” says Dr. Hodak. “Once the reimbursement is established as we generate more outcomes data, this is going to be commonplace, broadly available and transformative.” Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: WHO, 2001, 2007. A diagram of the components of the ICF-CY, illustrating how a health condition is comprised of both function and dysfunction with interactions of environmental and personal factors. ADAPTED FROM: WHO, 2001, 2007 A diagram exemplifying the ICF-CY framework applied to pre- and post-amputation care for an adolescent with a rare cancer necessitating limb amputation. ADAPTED FROM: J Pediatr Rehabil Med . 2023 May 8. Over the past several decades, chronic health conditions and disabilities among children and youth have steadily risen . Despite this, the adoption and utilization of interdisciplinary models of rehabilitation care have been slow In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) published the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health for Children and Youth (ICF-CY), a biopsychosocial framework for interdisciplinary care of children and adolescents with disabilities. “Even though ICF-CY was published roughly two decades ago and there are evidence-based recommendations in regard to its implementation, it has yet to be fully implemented in medical education and practice within the United States,” says , a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients.” According to Dr. Sukhov, adherence to WHO principles can help facilitate comprehensive, multidisciplinary rehabilitation care, noting that these principles, when applied correctly, are useful for managing medically complex pediatric patients. His team has published several case reports detailing the successful implementation of the ICF-CY in complex cases, including an 18-year-old with osteosarcoma in the setting of Li-Fraumeni syndrome necessitating amputation, a 14-year-old with congenital heart disease who experienced sudden cardiac arrest, and a 13-year-old with a spinal cord injury as a complication of an aneurysmal bone cyst. In clinical settings, implementation of the model has been shown to optimize child participation, improve quality of life assessments and value-based care delivery systems, and streamline medical management, Dr. Sukhov says. Given prolonged hospitalization, for example, some patients report feeling psychologically drained and a desire to go home to be with their family. However, environmental barriers may preclude safe discharge. By applying the framework, environmental and psychological factors can be prioritized, facilitating patients’ return home, fully functional, both quickly and safely. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients,” says Dr. Sukhov. For best outcomes, pediatric physiatrists should be consulted as early as possible, and while a physiatrist is likely the most qualified to introduce, implement, and guide the use of ICF principles, Dr. Sukhov explains that they can be tailored and applied by the entire medical team for better patient care. Renat R. Sukhov, MD, is a pediatric physiatrist and a clinical associate professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for children and adolescents with complex injuries. Recipient of a landmark transplant performed up to five hours of rehabilitation daily—and was constantly pushing for more. Intensive Rehabilitation: A Key to Success Following a devastating car accident, 22-year-old Joe DiMeo underwent the world’s first full face and bilateral forearm transplantation, regaining significant improvement in both his function and quality of life. The pioneering surgical team was led by , chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. Central to Mr. DiMeo’s recovery and success was intensive rehabilitation at the Rusk Rehabilitation inpatient unit , a world-renowned expert in rehabilitation medicine. “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily.” “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily,” Dr. Cohen says. “For example, he completed therapeutic exercises involving his hands to improve his grip strength, as well as activities designed to improve his fine motor dexterity. Overall, the results were spectacular.” Upon discharge,Mr. DiMeo continued outpatient rehabilitation with NYU Langone Health’s partner organization, myFace , which provides individuals who have craniofacialdeficits with comprehensive care by funding medical, surgical, dental, psychosocial support, travel, and housing. His outpatient rehabilitation included speech therapy Remarkably, Mr. DiMeo experienced significant improvement in several clinical and functional outcomes, including psychological status, vision, grip strength, fine motor dexterity, upper extremity strength, and range of motion, as well as sitting balance and basic self-care skills. “Some of his personal goals were to be able to cook and throw a ball to his dog, both of which he accomplished,” Dr. Cohen says. “He also successfully relearned to smile—the team used imagery of a happy thought, which improved his buccal movement.” This work was supported by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs through the Reconstructive Transplantation Research Award Program under award no. W81XWH-15-2-0036. Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the author and are not necessarily endorsed by the Department of Defense. Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, is the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. He is also director of the Face Transplant Program. Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD, is a clinical professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is also director of the Cardiopulmonary/Medically Complex Service at Rusk Rehabilitation. Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Critical Presentation Yields Discovery of Life-Threatening Clot A 15-year-old girl with a family history of clotting disorders, a history of hormonal supplementation treatment for irregular menses, and recent complaints of chest pain was diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism in another hospital’s emergency department after the patient lost consciousness at home. Though the care team immediately stabilized the patient with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), they were not equipped to manage ECMO in pediatric patients. , surgical director of NYU Langone Health’s , was contacted to transfer the patient’s care to , where a multidisciplinary team mobilized. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work.” “We quickly choreographed the specialists, timing, and an operating room’s worth of equipment needed to safely transport this patient to our care,” says Dr. Fisher. The first step was to transfer her from the other hospital’s ECMO circuit to NYU Langone’s mobile ECMO unit. “She had a near complete occlusion of cardiac output,” notes , director of pediatric critical care, so the team carefully titrated medications to keep the patient stable during the transfer, then managed her on the new machine until arriving safely at that Pediatric Intensive Care Unit There, Frederic J. Bertino, MD , director of pediatric interventional radiology, planned endovascular treatment of the emboli. When further imaging revealed blood vessel damage and bleeding from the femoral artery from the initial, emergent ECMO placement—contraindicating thrombolytic treatment—Dr. Bertino elected to apply mechanical thrombectomy. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry. It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Using the approach, rarely performed in pediatric patients, Dr. Bertino guided a flexible catheter through an incision in the patient’s neck into the pulmonary artery, using a syringe to create suction that removed the clots. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry, which could introduce air embolism,” explains Dr. Bertino. “It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Following further collaboration with the vascular surgery team to repair the prior vessel injury from the patient’s groin to the retroperitoneal space, the patient stabilized quickly, coming off ECMO within 24 hours of her arrival. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work—experienced coordination, combining our expertise in pediatric critical care and a novel interventional approach to deliver a good outcome for a critically ill patient,” says Dr. Fisher. Vascular & Interventional Radiology Frederic J. Bertino, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of radiology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of pediatric interventional radiology at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on minimally invasive pediatric procedures, adult and pediatric venous thromboembolic disease (PE and DVT), chronic venous occlusion, vascular malformations, and lymphatic disorders. Arun Chopra, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of the division of pediatric critical care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on extracorporeal circuits and pharmacokinetics of therapeutic medications. Jason C. Fisher, MD, is a pediatric surgeon, director of children’s surgical services for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He conducts clinical research focused on congenital diaphragmatic hernia and pediatric ECMO. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting See the neurosurgeons from NYU Langone Health who joined international colleagues in Chicago, May 3 to 6. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Combining natural language processing with EHR data allowed researchers to automate a clinical registry for spine surgery. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma Study offers a long-term view of middle meningeal artery embolization for chronic subdural hematoma. Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor Jason C. Fisher, MD, and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA Seamless collaboration between pediatric specialists at and adult providers at NYU Langone Health enabled an 11-year-old patient’s tracheal tumor, blocking 85 percent of the airway, to successfully be resected in less than 2 hours using robotic surgery The outcome demonstrates the pivotal strengths that come with having continuity between children’s and adult services. “This procedure could not have been done at any other children’s hospital,” says , surgical director of the . Dr. Fisher managed heparin-free extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support during the operation, minimizing the risk of surgical bleeding. “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half.” “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half,” says Dr. Fisher. Making All the Right Moves The patient was admitted to the pediatric ICU for difficulty breathing, hypoxia, and other symptoms initially attributed to COVID-19. Although she responded to treatment, a chest CT was performed to understand the cause of a pneumothorax leaking air into the space between the lungs and the chest wall and up into the neck. That’s when the care team saw that a mass located close to the carina was causing a near-complete obstruction of the trachea. To collect a biopsy and debulk the tumor, pediatric pulmonologist Eleanor Muise, MD Jamie L. Bessich, MD , an interventional pulmonologist with the adult hospital, performed a rigid bronchoscopy. “That was a very elegant procedure. It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” “That was a very elegant procedure,” says Dr. Muise. “It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” During the procedure, Dr. Fisher was ready with ECMO support in case the airway became occluded. “We didn’t need to put her on, but we had a pump and a team on standby,” he says. ECMO without Heparin Biopsy confirmed the tumor to be a soft tissue mass requiring tracheal resection and reconstruction, and world-renowned thoracic surgeon , performed the operation using a minimally invasive robotic approach. “There are no pediatric surgical specialists who can do what Dr. Cerfolio can do,” says Dr. Fisher. “The type of robotic surgery he does is in a league of its own. And he is right next door.” To optimize exposure and eliminate the need to ventilate the lungs during surgery, Dr. Fisher put the patient on ECMO. He and his team managed ECMO support without an anticoagulant, having deemed the risk of bleeding during the operation to be higher than the risk of clotting. “We have a very successful pediatric ECMO program, and we made the calculation that, based on the patient’s size, we could flow through the pump fast enough and that Dr. Cerfolio could operate with such efficiency that we could run ECMO without heparin,” says Dr. Fisher. “We were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” An Excellent Prognosis The patient will only require close follow-up as staging confirmed the cancer had not spread. Dr. Muise also completed a repeat bronchoscopy after the procedure, stating the tracheal anastomosis to be “beautiful and widely patent,” with no visual indication of abnormal mucosa in the area. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice, and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do. We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” The tumor was ultimately determined to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma, a type of salivary gland tumor more commonly seen in adults. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test revealed the specific gene fusion, CRTC3-MAML2 , that helped confirm the diagnosis. Colleagues in pediatric hematology–oncology Nicole Mallory, MD , consulted on the case, which was also presented to adult specialists at a tumor board. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do,” says Dr. Raetz. “We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” Eleanor Muise, MD, is an assistant professor of pediatrics. She specializes in pediatric pulmonary medicine and lung transplant, and her clinical and research interests focus on tracheobronchomalacia, vaping-related lung injury, and aerodigestive disorders. Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD, is director of the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology and the KiDS of NYU Foundation Professor of Pediatric Medicine. She specializes in the treatment of leukemia. A unique program trains local specialists to tackle unmet need among children with hearing loss. , is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and recently ended a nearly 14-year tenure as chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery . Here, Dr. Roland discusses how he and his team built a sustainable program for ENT care in Uganda, a first of its kind for the region. Developed with NYU Langone colleagues including Sean O. McMenomey, MD , the now-18-year collaboration with trainees and faculty at Makerere University has provided the support to increase education, equipment and surgical expertise . As described by Ugandan colleagues Dr. Chris Ndoleriire , chair of the department at Makerere University Dr. Amina Seguya , attending otologist, “This project is all about capacity building in our country and it has proven to be highly successful.” Dr. Roland continues to advocate for children with hearing loss by promoting awareness, providing education, and conducting research both abroad and in the diverse communities of New York City Hearing Loss: A Challenge in Uganda You’ve noted hearing impairment is a “silent epidemic” affecting millions in developing countries. As an otolaryngologist, how did you get started working in Uganda? Dr. Roland: Many years ago, my wife was working in adolescent medicine for an organization that helped to rehabilitate rescued child soldiers in Northern Uganda and provide them with housing, food, and medical care, as well as an education. While that organization no longer exists, it led me to connect with a local ENT specialist who had an interest in hearing. He knew a lot about the ears but lacked the resources to really treat ear disease and most hearing loss, and although he did have the ability to do limited testing for hearing impairment in his patients, screening on a large level was nearly impossible. I committed to help set up a program and during that initial time did not stop working—organizing the clinic, setting up equipment, reviewing cases, and performing surgery. “Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults.” Since then, I’ve gone back numerous times. Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults. I bring teams of NYU Langone faculty, residents, and fellows to assist with the work. Designing a Sustainable Care Model Building a sustainable hearing loss screening and treatment program in a developing nation like Uganda is a formidable endeavour. How did you come up with the care model? The care and training model was designed in accordance with our local residency program’s goals and objectives. At regular intervals, clinical teams from NYU Langone will fly over to give lectures, see patients, and perform surgeries with the local physicians. Moreover, we partner with the local organizations to carry out health promotion activities. To be clear, it’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity. Over the years, our footprint has grown tremendously and we’ve established infrastructure including a temporal bone laboratory and hearing rehabilitation center , as well as an outpatient surgery center. It’s astonishing to see how far we’ve come. “It’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity.” In fact, the program has been such a success that we’ve begun to publish findings (for example about feasibility implementation ). We omitted our own names from the publications to keep the focus on the doctors in Uganda. Breaking the Cycle of Dependency You’ve noted that your philosophy toward the unmet global need for hearing loss care is different than some nonprofits or nongovernmental organizations. Is the difference your focus on education and training? Yes, our focus is on equipping local doctors to succeed in the clinic. In most cases, the Ugandan doctors are treating the patients and performing the operations—we’re essentially there to educate and supervise. When I bring teams of young trainees from NYU Langone, I want them to realize that you don’t have to give a lot—all you have to do is give what you do each day. The Ugandan residents and fellows are exceptionally smart. All they need are competent teachers and equipment. Looking ahead, what are your plans for the future? We plan to start a year-long fellowship, in which a resident from Uganda with an interest in otology will spend 1 month here to learn our processes and organization and 11 months in Uganda learning with supervision under the direction of a U.S.-trained neurotologist and two Ugandan otologists. They will go through a board exam, present cases, and carry out a research project. It’s another exciting opportunity for collaboration that has evolved out of our relationships with Ugandan peers. Otology & Neurotology, Skull Base Surgery, Otolaryngology J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, a professor of neurosurgery, and served for nearly 14 years as the chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research interests include enhancing outcomes in cochlear and auditory brain stem implantation, skull base and acoustic tumor surgery, and neurofibromatosis. Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy Since its introduction in the United States in the mid-2010s, Descemet stripping only (DSO) has revolutionized the surgical management of Fuchs dystrophy. Although similar procedures were originally explored in the 1950s and for some time after, these met with little success. The current technique—pioneered in the United States by , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine—involves removal of the diseased endothelium and mound-shaped aggregates, known as guttae, without the need for a donor graft. Further advancing the treatment, Dr. Colby currently serves as the U.S. chair for two ongoing phase 3 trials evaluating whether a topical Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor administered in the weeks following DSO surgery simultaneous cataract and DSO surgery may enhance the efficacy of the procedures for treating Fuchs dystrophy. Early studies report the topical agent aids corneal restoration following DSO. NYU Langone enrolled the first patient in the world to one of the two phase 3 trials last summer. If successful, the trials may lead to FDA approval of topical ROCK inhibitor administration as an adjuvant therapy to DSO. “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period.” “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period,” Dr. Colby says. “New evidence suggests these agents can enhance final endothelial cell count after a tissue corneal transplantation as well.” Success with DSO As an alternative to corneal transplantation, DSO boasts no risk of graft rejection and eliminates the need for long-term immunosuppression with topical steroids, making it a highly attractive option. While the procedure has a high rate of success, it warrants careful patient selection, Dr. Colby explains. “Candidates must have Fuchs that is severe enough to cause symptoms, but not so severe that they don’t have any remaining peripheral endothelium,” she says. “They should also be comfortable with experiencing blurred vision for several weeks after the procedure and must be willing to proceed with a corneal transplant if necessary.” VIDEO: Dr. Colby performing the DSO procedure. From a surgical perspective, Dr. Colby adds that it is crucial to ensure a smooth edge and prevent leftover tags when removing the diseased tissue. “It’s clear that a smooth edge tear makes it easier for cells to migrate and repopulate the corneal endothelium.” Mounting Evidence for ROCK Inhibitors Interest in ROCK inhibitors for DSO has been growing since a 2017 study found that ripasudil, a ROCK inhibitor approved as a therapy for glaucoma in Japan, rescued two patients who had Fuchs dystrophy that was slow to clear. Additional research has shown that administration of topical ripasudil after DSO for Fuchs dystrophy results in earlier corneal restoration. As a result, Dr. Colby helped lead a recently completed phase 2 trial that evaluated ripasudil (K-321) in 65 patients undergoing DSO for Fuchs dystrophy. “Preliminary data from the phase 2 trial indicates improvements in the speed of healing and the final endothelial cell count, and a reduction in the failure rate for DSO,” she says. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population.” The ongoing phase 3 trials will each evaluate an additional 100 participants. The patients will follow a 12-week administration protocol, with a 2-week dose taper phase, and be followed for a total of 38 weeks. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population,” Dr. Colby says. NYU Langone has a research contract with Kowa Inc. for Dr. Colby’s role as the U.S. chair for the K-321 development program. Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD, is the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in managing the most complex corneal disease in children and adults, and has pioneered novel therapies for Fuchs corneal dystrophy, the most common cause for corneal transplant in the United States. Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight While technologies for imaging the cornea have significantly improved through advances in specular microscopy, there are still no commercially available tools capable of imaging the entire corneal endothelium, including its peripheral regions. Gaining a more complete view of the cornea can provide insight into how the outermost edges respond to treatments and infections, potentially translating to improvements in care for those with vision loss secondary to corneal damage or disease. At NYU Langone Health, a breakthrough imaging device debuted in 2023: Konan Medical’s CellChek® C . The state-of-the-art, wide-field scanning specular microscope is capable of providing near-complete visualization of the cornea, says , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology in and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her team is currently leading studies under IRB approval to test its utility. CellChek C is not yet available for commercial sale in the United States. “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide.” “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide,” Dr. Colby says. “We are the first institution in North America to acquire the microscope.” Visualizing the Entire Corneal Endothelium Most commercially available specular microscopes are capable of imaging the central and paracentral corneal endothelium, yet they fall short in their ability to image cells in the peripheral endothelium. According to Dr. Colby, the CellChek C microscope offers the ability to view any portion of the cornea, even the typically hard-to-see periphery, from endothelium to epithelium. The microscope’s slit-scanning technology enables high-resolution and high-contrast imaging of the corneal layers, she adds. “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking. Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking,” says Dr. Colby. “Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire cornea.” “With its broad imaging capability, the CellChek C is a versatile tool for enhancing our understanding of corneal diseases and the response of the cornea to various surgeries, including Descemet stripping only (DSO) and corneal transplants. Additionally, this device can provide insights into the effect of other eye diseases and surgeries, such as glaucoma or cataract, on the cornea.” Dr. Kathryn A. Colby and members of her research team with the CellChek C. Opportunities for Research From a research perspective, the microscope offers a plethora of new opportunities, one of which is clinical trials. As the director of the NYU Langone Eye Center , Dr. Colby has pioneered many practice-changing trials for some of the most complex corneal diseases in children and adults. ongoing study led by Dr. Colby and her team will compare the CellChek C microscope to the CellChek 20, widely considered the gold standard in specular microscopy. “We have high hopes that CellChek C will outperform the current standard,” she says. “As we collect more data and explore the microscope’s full potential, we look forward to sharing it with the medical community.” VIDEO: The corneal endothelium in a healthy patient, imaged using the CellChek C. VIDEO: The peripheral corneal endothelium in a patient with moderate Fuchs dystrophy, imaged using the CellChek C. Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health , sat down with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss his pioneering work on robotic surgery, running the Department of Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery , and where the future lies in his field. Subscribers can hear the full conversation the interview extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Tell me about your background. How did you get to where you are now? Dr. Duvvuri: I was born in India, in a city called Hyderabad, in the south of India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. Not Jamaica, Queens, but the country, the island. So, I grew up in the Caribbean, and when I finished high school, I was lucky enough to get accepted to UPenn. My bachelor’s is actually in biomedical engineering, and one of the people that I worked with was a scientist who did a lot of work on imaging and how engineering affects medicine and biomedical engineering. I asked him to write me a letter of recommendation to be a graduate student, because I wanted to be a PhD, just like him. He looked at me, he said, no. And I said, why not? And he said, there are three kinds of people in this world. The ones that have the hammers, that’s the engineers. The ones that have the nails and know what the problems are, those are the doctors. There’s a small third group of people who know both. What do you want to do? So, if you put it that way, well, I want to be the third group that knows both. And he said, that’s right. So you’ve got to be an MD PhD. I was born in India. When I was seven, my dad decided he wanted a new experience, so he moved us to Jamaica. So, I grew up in the Caribbean. At that time, I knew I wanted to do something that involved working with my hands, where I helped people, where I saw immediate gratification from taking care of patients. Surgery was a clear link to that. And because of my background, coming from India, head and neck cancer actually struck me as being particularly relevant. I’ve had family members with it, and it’s actually one of the leading causes of death in the world in terms of cancer. And so, I decided to become an otolaryngologist to take care of patients with head and neck cancer. That was my motivation, with the intention of hopefully one day being able to contribute back to India. Talk to me a little more about robotic neck dissections, which is part of what you’ve pioneered. How exactly are they performed using a robot? We do it usually with an open approach, where you make an incision that starts just around the back of the neck, under the ear, and comes across towards the voice box. It’s about a 3- to 3.5-inch incision, which is quite large but can be hidden very nicely, and can be very cosmetic and closed well. But when you cut across those lymphatics in the neck, you always develop some amount of lymphedema. And the patients often complain that they have what they call turkey gobble under their chin. To avoid that, we developed a technique that uses a modified facelift approach which displaces that scar, putting it in a place in the hairline. When you lift up the skin, you put the surgical robot under that skin incision, and you use that to remove the lymph nodes. Same operation, just done a slightly different way. Not only is there benefit from cosmesis, there’s also benefit from the functional outcomes, because when you save all that skin and you prevent those scars, you get a lot less edema in the neck after surgery. That’s really beneficial to the patients, supporting good oncologic outcomes. We just published our five-year outcomes on this. We showed that if you compare patients who had robotic neck dissections versus patients that had traditional neck dissections, their five-year overall survival was the same . So, this is not an inferior technique in terms of survival, and it improves blood loss and improves outcomes. When will you be able to operate in other places of the world using the robotic console? It’s a very interesting question. I just came back from a big meeting from the Society of Robotic Surgery, where we discussed this. It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing this for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other. They can do surgeries across the different coasts of China. The technology is here. The delays in what we call latency have been solved. They can be controlled. “It turns out that surgeons in China have been doing [telesurgery] for the last year, and they’ve actually been operating about a thousand miles away from each other.” The problem for America is we have a very high bar for safety. The ability to actually go through all the regulatory framework is honestly our biggest holdup. We want to make sure that we’re doing things in a safe and careful fashion. But the technique, the technology, the ability, it’s actually here. So, I don’t think that this is too far away. And this is actually one of the things that I’m passionate about, is bringing telesurgery or telemedicine truly to our space, because I strongly feel that just because you happen to live in a smaller town or a smaller city doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t have access to the same quality of care that you might get anywhere else. The issue of thyroid-sparing surgery appeals to me, because if I’m treating somebody that had a partial thyroidectomy versus a total thyroidectomy, it’s a different clinical appearance—how much thyroid hormone I have to use, how much I have to worry about things. Does the robot help you spare thyroid tissue? The short answer is no. The robot itself doesn’t help us. But I think what the robotic techniques have allowed us to do is to do the surgery in a very safe fashion and allowed us actually to incorporate modern advances to be more precise about making sure the tumors are removed. The American Thyroid Association has now told us, based on lots of data, that a partial thyroidectomy is a safe operation for people that have small thyroid cancers, those that are confined to the thyroid and haven’t spread to lymph nodes. You can do that safely, especially at a place like NYU Langone Health, where we have a tremendous team of endocrinologists and surgeons that work together. We can really work to create a personalized treatment plan to give the patients the right type of treatment. When I was a young doctor, if you had a thyroid cancer, the whole thyroid was coming out, and you were going to get radioactive iodine. Now, not so much. We can use molecular testing. We can use genetic algorithms. We can use technologies like radiofrequency ablation. We can do lots of things to minimize the toxicity profile for our patients. You use both robotic and nonrobotic approaches. Which head and neck procedures are more prone to needing one versus the other? It’s not as simple as that. It’s not that you’ve got tons of cancer, so you get a robotic surgery, or you got thyroid cancer, so you don’t. It’s much more an issue of, is the robotic approach or the open approach going to give the patient the best outcome and, ideally, with the least amount of toxicity so that they can carry on with their lives? The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field.” The goal is not to have the treatment be worse than the disease in some sense. This is the approach that I would like us all to move towards as a field, and we do this here at NYU Langone, which is, how can we deescalate and appropriately personalize the care for these patients? The goal here is that, going back to the hammer-and-the-nail analogy, not every nail needs the same hammer. I left out something we’re really, really world-renowned for, which is cochlear implants. What about AI? How is AI going to be integrated into ENT here? Artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms are definitely changing how we think about the delivery of care. There are a couple of ways that we’re looking at this. One is understanding, going back to this point, the right treatment for the right patient at the right time. Can artificial intelligence algorithms allow us to synthesize large amounts of data to figure out what’s happening? I’m also very privileged to be a part of a clinical trial that just opened at our veterans hospital, where we’re using artificial intelligence to prognosticate how patients will do with algorithms for treatment for oropharyngeal cancer with chemotherapy and radiation. This is a huge study, it’s a multicenter study. And I think this highlights how AI and machine learning algorithms may have unexpected roles. I don’t think it’s going to replace a doctor or a surgeon anytime soon. But I do think it will augment how we make our decisions. Head & Neck Surgery Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, where he is also chair. He specializes in applying minimally invasive robotic surgery to treat head and neck malignancies while simultaneously minimizing patient impact. Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation On February 9, 2024, NYU Langone’s celebrated the 40th anniversary of its first surgical cochlear implant. Since its start, the center has been involved in testing every major cochlear innovation and has implanted roughly 5,000 devices in patients ranging from 4 months to 97 years old. Here, center co-directors Sean O. McMenomey, MD William H. Shapiro, AUD , discuss the important lessons learned from their decades of experience. In addition, they describe the center’s central role in advancing other procedures like auditory brainstem implants, skull base surgery, and nonsurgical regeneration of tympanic membranes. Decades of Change with Cochlear Implants Cochlear implants have certainly evolved since you first started implanting them in 1984. Can you reflect on these advances? Dr. McMenomey: Our colleague Dr. J Thomas Roland Jr. has done a monumental amount of work on advances in electrode array design. I think we’ve been involved in every single advancement of electrode arrays for years. A modern cochlear implant is now beautifully thin, much thinner than the ones of yore: I used to put implants in that were at least three times thicker. How has your pool of eligible patients changed? Dr. Shapiro: When we began implanting these cochlear devices, adult patients with bilateral hearing loss couldn’t have any hearing at all because we didn’t know what we could guarantee. The technology and selection criteria have changed dramatically since then, and we can now help a much wider spectrum of patients. The typical adult with hearing loss is a candidate for a cochlear implant if their speech discrimination is less than 60 percent with a hearing aid. Patients with single-sided deafness (SSD) now make up our fastest-growing cohort. These patients often experience sudden idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss, and we don’t know exactly what causes it. I would say 30 percent of the patients that we implant are adults with SSD, and our cochlear implants in this group have been wildly successful. We also started implanting pediatric patients who have SSD. They may be born with an anatomical variant: maybe their cochlea isn’t developed enough or their cochlear nerve is not robust enough to carry a signal. We’re seeing some success here as well, though not to same level as in adults who could hear before experiencing SSD. Removing Age as a Limitation What accounts for the center’s huge range in patient ages? Dr. Shapiro : Dr. Roland devised a protocol that allows us to offer cochlear implants under local anesthesia with sedation to patients who are older or have extensive comorbidities. The patient is awake but sedated, and the recovery is much quicker than from general anesthesia. Anyone who is medically fragile or older, like the 97-year-old patient, could have the surgery with local anesthesia—that’s a big deal because not a lot of centers do that. “There really is no age limit.” We also implant patients routinely at 6 months of age, putting in two implants at the same time. Official FDA approval is down to 9 months of age, but a physician who thinks it’s in the best interest of the patient can implant off-label at earlier ages. The 4-month-old child that we implanted had bacterial meningitis, which can cause the tunnels in the cochlea to ossify. It’s important to get the electrode in as quickly as possible or it won’t be possible to place the full array. So that child needed implants at 4 months of age—there really is no age limit. Expertise with Auditory Brainstem Implants The center has played a leading role in advancing auditory brainstem implants (ABIs). Can you tell us about the center’s expertise with ABIs and explain what constitutes a successful case? There are two cohorts that we commonly treat with ABIs. The first cohort is adult patients with neurofibromatosis type 2 from whom Sean needs to remove a tumor. Potential hearing loss is always a consideration with operations to remove these kinds of tumors. The other cohort is children who are born with no cochlea or cochlear nerves— Dr. Susan B. Waltzman has played a leading role in advancing ABIs in this group In our experience, most children receive a measurable degree of auditory benefit from their implant, as well as improved quality of life. Our best pediatric performers have some limited open-set discrimination, which means they’re able to understand some speech without additional visual cues. None of our patients who receive ABIs use audition as their primary mode of communication; they’re all what we call multimodality: they also use sign language, lipreading, or other strategies. It depends on the year, but we perform between 5 and 10 ABIs every year. When we put an ABI in, it’s because there’s no other option. The children who were born without a cochlea or without a nerve aren’t candidates for cochlear implants, so their options are either an ABI or remaining without hearing. Preserving Hearing in Skull Base Surgery The center has worked hard to minimize hearing loss following skull base surgery—a big concern for patients. What lessons have you learned from that experience? The most common skull base surgery is for acoustic neuroma, also known as vestibular schwannoma, a typically benign tumor on the vestibular nerve. This tumor usually causes unilateral hearing loss due to its location inside the skull, where it can exert pressure on the auditory nerve. Hearing loss is far and away the most common symptom. Fortunately, we do have options to help this group of patients deal with their hearing loss. Our goal is—whenever possible—to preserve hearing, to keep it right where it is preoperatively by preventing further damage to the brain and nerve. We have conducted several studies to understand how factors such as acoustic tumor size impact hearing loss, enabling us to better advise and manage patients undergoing these surgeries. If you have a patient who comes in with normal hearing but who has an acoustic neuroma, they may lose their hearing in one ear when the neuroma is removed. But if the surgeon feels that they saved the nerve, we may be able to implant that patient with a cochlear implant. In fact, we’ve done that for some of our neuroma patients with SSD, including patients with stable unoperated tumors. Innovations on the Horizon What ongoing research at the center do you find particularly exciting? For the last hundred years, there really hasn’t been a nonsurgical way to repair a perforated eardrum. But we are doing a study right now that is looking at applying growth factor to the eardrum . It’s a double-blind study, and some patients are getting a placebo and some patients are getting the active drug to answer this question: Is there a way we can repair a perforated eardrum without taking patients to the operating room? “The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts.” Another study we’re involved in is exploring whether we can create an electrode that continuously bathes the cochlea in steroids, preventing an inflammatory reaction to the presence of a foreign body—the implant—within the cochlea and thereby preserving hearing. The answer is not in yet, but it’s ongoing work. Finally, the center is conducting experimental cochlear implant mapping based on music perception in patients with SSD . Again, the research shows how we’re leading the way in investigating different strategies, in this case helping patients with implants appreciate music. One of the things that makes it so fun to work here is that NYU Langone is basically involved in every cutting-edge cochlear implant trial, because we’re a high-volume center and well known and we do good work. The coming decades promise exciting advancements in cochlear technology, and we’re thrilled to contribute to these efforts. Sean O. McMenomey, MD, is a professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and of neurosurgery. He is co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center and specializes in cochlear implants, skull base surgery, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and other treatments of hearing loss. William H. Shapiro, AUD, is the Lester S. Miller, Jr. and Kathleen V. Miller Clinical Assistant Professor of Hearing Health in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery, co-director of the Cochlear Implant Center, and director of audiology. One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery , physiatrist Lincy S. Thadathil, DO , sees most of the patients with concussion who come through the hospital’s emergency department and outpatient office. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, Dr. Thadathil is part of a multidisciplinary concussion team focused on individualizing treatment. “No two concussions are exactly alike,” she says. “Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” If not detected early and managed properly, concussion can result in prolonged neurologic symptoms, Dr. Thadathil says. At NYU Langone Health, a precise methodology based on leading-edge research in concussion management is used to evaluate the array of concussion symptoms that may affect function. “No two concussions are exactly alike. Each patient who walks through our doors is managed a little differently.” “Brain disturbances may not show up immediately, so it’s important to thoroughly evaluate these patients,” Dr. Thadathil says. “The assessment checklist helps us address what actually happened, targeting each subgroup of symptoms—physiological, oculomotor and vestibular, cervical spine, and mood and cognition. “The goal is to initiate treatment as soon as possible and direct specific rehabilitation when persistent post-concussion symptoms are detected.” Individualized Rehab Once the initial evaluation is complete, a rehabilitation plan is developed to manage each symptom individually. This individualized rehabilitation takes a highly specialized, multidisciplinary team approach, involving experts in vestibular rehabilitation, neuro-focused occupational and speech therapy, neuropsychology, endocrinology, and otolaryngology. In most situations, patients are managed as outpatients. However, depending on the severity of the injury and symptoms, patients may be evaluated in the hospital. When the patient leaves the hospital, Dr. Thadathil works with social work and case management to transition them to the appropriate level of rehab—whether at or another facility closer to home, either subacute or outpatient. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred.” “If they’ve done well with the structural rehab at the hospital, we will help them transition into the community—to their house with home health, outpatient follow-up with me, or medication monitoring and outpatient therapy in the office,” Dr. Thadathil says. Diligent Monitoring While most patients with concussion recover within a few weeks, Dr. Thadathil says, a significant group experiences persistent post-concussive symptoms, some of which may be from associated cervical or persistent vestibular dysfunction. She and the rehabilitation specialists monitor each patient’s progress and watch for these post-concussion sequalae that may occur once a patient leaves the hospital or the initial evaluation. To help patients self-recognize warning signs of concussion and seek care, Dr. Thadathil and colleagues are engaged in community outreach. “Through our public education, some individuals come in by themselves because they believe they’ve had a concussion, or for a second or third opinion,” she says. “We’re teaching them to identify the symptoms and seek early evaluation.” Looking to improve methods for evaluating and monitoring concussion, Dr. Thadathil is participating in a research study led by neuroradiology colleague Yvonne W. Lui, MD Unpacking the Importance of the Structural Injuries of MTBI . The study will apply new MRI techniques, including advanced diffusion MRI, to measure brain microstructure changes in patients who have sustained concussion in the past six months. The goal is to identify distinct changes associated with recovery outcomes. Dr. Thadathil and colleagues will also participate in a trial of the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) in emergency departments. The tablet app was developed by NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologists to diagnose sideline concussion quickly by assessing visual pathways in the brain. “Most concussions don’t show up on MRI, so we need better methods to measure brain changes sooner, rather than later, when they have already occurred,” Dr. Thadathil says. Lincy S. Thadathil, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine and a physiatrist at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. A specialist in traumatic brain injury, she treats concussion, stroke, and other injuries requiring neurologic intervention and rehabilitation. Differential Diagnosis of Optic Neuritis Can Point to Early Multiple Sclerosis A 24-year-old woman presented with blurred vision that had developed over several days. The woman’s symptoms worsened when her left eye was closed, while her vision normalized with her right eye closed. She reported pain, mainly in the right globe, when she moved her eyes. MRI showed an enhancing lesion of the affected optic nerve and an additional non-enhancing lesion in the periventricular area. In an invited response to the theoretical case vignette published by The New England Journal of Medicine , NYU Langone neuro-ophthalmologist , concluded that the patient’s features were consistent with demyelinating optic neuritis, an early manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS) in up to 25 percent of patients. Given the effectiveness of new medications, he responded to the hypothetical case by urging the initiation of disease-modifying strategies to help prevent future attacks. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS.” Although optic neuritis has long been associated with MS, it has yet to be formally included in the consensus diagnostic criteria of lesions in at least two of four locations within the central nervous system. Dr. Galetta, however, has led a growing effort to prove the utility of optic neuritis as a fifth lesion site in establishing an early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention. “Our part was in establishing this new technology, optic coherence tomography, to measure the thickness of the optic nerve and validate it as one of the tools you could use to measure optic nerve dysfunction in MS,” he says. In a widely-cited 2019 study, he and collaborators used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to define the criteria for establishing optic nerve dysfunction in the setting of MS . Multiple studies have since shown that via clinical findings or imaging techniques such as MRI or OCT, including the optic nerve improves the diagnostic accuracy for MS. “The data are now there for giving optic nerve lesions equal footing with the other lesion sites in the diagnostic criteria for MS,” he says. The promising studies have led to a new editorial in in which Dr. Galetta and a collaborator at University College London lay out the argument for including the optic nerve in an upcoming revision of the consensus diagnostic criteria and providing what they hope will become a critical new tool for clinicians. Its title references the raft of new evidence: “Assignment Completed: The Optic Nerve Should Graduate to be the Fifth Lesion Site for the Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis.” Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches An angiogram showing the patient's arteriovenous malformation. Source: NYU Langone Health After sustaining a football-related concussion in August 2023, a 15-year-old boy with a preexisting history of chronic migraines experienced worsening symptoms, severe nausea and visual defects in his left eye. His migraines increased in frequency until he was unable to attend school. Neither physical therapy nor acupuncture provided relief. And although treatment with rimegepant dulled some of his pain, it intensified his nausea. By April 2024, an MRI revealed the cause: a large arteriovenous malformation (AVM) centered in the right occipital lobe of the patient’s brain. Following the diagnosis, the patient was referred to NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon Howard A. Riina, MD , for specialized care. In just a month after Dr. Riina and his team performed open surgery to resect the lesion, the patient experienced a life-changing moment—freedom from the migraines that had plagued him for years. The patient, family, and clinical team chose embolization followed by open surgery for curative treatment of the lesion and for immediate relief of debilitating migraines. Preoperative angiography with 3D reconstructions revealed the AVM to be 4 cm in size and at a high risk of bleeding. Functional MRI with diffusion tractography mapped adjacent eloquent brain surfaces and white matter anatomy. Preoperative embolization reduced the size of the AVM nidus by about 50 percent. Detailed Surgical Planning Dr. Riina initially performed diagnostic and rotational angiography with 3D reconstructions (Slide 1) to better characterize the vascular pathology and to inform clinical decision-making. The detailed imaging confirmed the exact size and location of the AVM, as well as the arterial branches feeding it. The imaging also revealed several areas of the lesion featuring a high risk for potential bleeding. Treatment options were then presented, including surgical resection, Gamma Knife radiosurgery, and endovascular embolization, on its own or in combination with one of the other strategies. The patient and his family chose surgery combined with embolization, in part because radiosurgery sometimes requires two to four years for complete treatment response. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” “Given the size and location of the AVM, his symptoms, and the significant risk of AVM-related bleeding over his lifetime, I felt that surgical resection was his best option,” Dr. Riina says. “We knew that resection could provide an immediate cure if the malformation was completely removed, leading to a rapid improvement of his headache syndrome.” Functional MRI (fMRI) with diffusion tractography, conducted by neuroradiologist Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD , confirmed that the AVM did not involve eloquent cortical regions and provided detailed mapping of the patient’s white matter anatomy (Slide 2). “Dr. Riina and I determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks,” Dr. Shepherd says. “We also look at additional important cortical regions, like frontal eye fields and the supplementary motor area. We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” This advanced imaging provides a more complete picture for safer treatment planning, Dr. Shepherd says. [We] determine eloquence based on direct fMRI visualization of patient tasks … We then map the white matter anatomy that connects all these regions.” In a preoperative embolization, Dr. Riina infused an ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide into arterial branches feeding the patient’s AVM nidus. The procedure obliterated roughly 50 to 60 percent of the AVM nidus, as shown by an angiogram (Slide 3). The following day, Dr. Riina performed an image-guided craniotomy and resection of the AVM. Intraoperative angiography confirmed the prior embolization and the successful resection of the remaining components of the AVM body (Slide 4). The patient’s migraines and visual field defects fully resolved after his surgery. AVM Characterized By Angiography Preoperative angiography using right internal carotid injection with 3D reconstructions revealed a 4-centimeter AVM (far left) fed by several arterial branches with drainage through an enlarged vein. fMRI Aids Treatment Planning fMRI activations were used to map critical functional regions, including visual tracking. Based on these visualizations and others, the fMRI helped determine there was a safe margin for resection of the AVM without a high risk of affecting eloquent regions. Establishing Embolization Success A postembolization angiogram confirmed that the procedure successfully blocked about 50 to 60 percent of the tangled blood vessels. The angiogram also showed preservation of the drainage through a vein toward the superior sagittal sinus. AVM Resection Confirmed By Intraoperative Angiogram Following an image-guided craniotomy and dissection of the AVM from surrounding tissue, an intraoperative angiogram confirmed the successful resection of the AVM. Howard A. Riina, MD, is the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of neurology and radiology, director of the Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases, and vice chair of clinical affairs for the Department of Neurosurgery. He specializes in surgical and endovascular treatment for people with cerebrovascular disorders of the brain and spinal cord. Timothy M. Shepherd, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology, associate section chief of neuroradiology, and director of its brain mapping. He specializes in neuroradiology and the translation of advanced imaging techniques into clinical practice. Latest in Neurosurgery NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting Houston, Texas. Source: Getty Images NYU Langone Health’s neurosurgery experts join colleagues from around the world at the Congress of Neurological Surgeons 2024 annual meeting in Houston. See the CNS website for Symposium SYM17A: Brain Tumor Update—Management of Malignant Brain Tumors Dimitris G. Placantonakis, MD, PhD 8:00AM–12:00PM Special Symposium 03: CNS Data Science and AI for Neurosurgeons: A Hands-On Experience Eric K. Oermann, MD 8:00AM–4:15PM Special Symposium 05: Greatest Surgical Challenges in the Cerebellopontine Angle, Petrous Apex and Petroclival Fissure—CNS/NASBS Symposium Douglas Kondziolka, MD Chandra Sen, MD Special Symposium 04: Meeting of the Americas SYM11A: Swimming with the Sharks Section Session Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves 1: Update on Minimally Invasive and Endoscopic Surgery 2:50–4:22PM Tuesday, October 1 General Scientific Session III 8:40AM–12:12PM Luncheon Seminar T14: Aneurysms: Tools and Tricks of the Trade Erez Nossek, MD 12:20–1:50PM Special Course Neurosurgery Publications: “Getting Published ” 1:20–2:50PM Section on Tumors 2: Focused Ultrasound and Intraoperative Photodynamic Therapy During Brain Tumor Resection 2:50–4:20PM Concurrent Session Cavernous Malformations: What Does the Modern Data Show? A Case-Based Joint Session of Sections on Pediatric Neurosurgery and Cerebrovascular Surgery 4:30–6:00PM Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Since many patients with chronic pulmonary conditions experience poor disease control, researchers are turning to the extra-esophageal manifestations of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) to look for clues that might explain this phenomenon. Investigators at NYU Langone Health’s were prompted by recent findings to further examine the association between GERD and chronic lung disease severity. The new research will be presented at a national conference in late 2023. “We have evidence from pH testing that many patients with complex pulmonary disease experience a significant amount of reflux, but it’s often silent, due to the absence of symptoms,” explains , surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health. “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease. These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” “For these patients, the influence of GERD and esophageal motility disorders is becoming increasingly recognized, and recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically,” says , medical director of the center. Inflammation Exacerbates Lung Disease GERD is known to cause, trigger, or exacerbate many chronic pulmonary diseases including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis, and while the physiological link between GERD and lung disease severity has been well established, it remains an underrecognized and undertreated comorbidity. While some patients will report symptoms, including heartburn, regurgitation, and dysphagia, others may have clinically silent disease, which is frequently seen among lung transplant recipients. “Microaspiration from reflux can lead to basilar changes in the lung tissue, driving inflammatory processes and the development of fibrosis,” Dr. Damani says. The Importance of Testing When evaluating patients with pulmonary disease, a personalized approach should be taken to identify the influence of esophageal disease, which may involve several different types of tests, Dr. Khan explains. For example, an esophageal manometry test or assessment by functional luminal imaging probe (FLIP) on endoscopy could be used to help identify esophageal motility problems. “Recent advances in diagnostic testing can help to identify those who might benefit from treatment, either medically or surgically.” Another common test is an ambulatory pH study, which can either be done with a wireless pH-sensing capsule that examines acid reflux for 48 to 96 hours, or with a 24-hour catheter-based pH impedance test that looks at both acid and nonacid reflux for 24 hours. “These tests are usually performed when initial endoscopic investigation is unrevealing, especially when symptoms persist despite empiric therapy,” Dr. Khan says. Developing a Treatment Strategy Notwithstanding lifestyle modifications and acid suppressive therapy, many patients with chronic pathologic GERD and complex pulmonary disease may benefit from minimally invasive anti-reflux surgery, Dr. Damani explains. The Toupet (270 degree) fundoplication has been shown to be as efficacious as the Nissen (360 degree) technique, but with fewer rates of postoperative dysphagia and gas bloat syndrome. Additionally, among lung transplant populations, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, but surgery has not been extensively studied in bronchiectasis other than a few reports that signal toward lung function preservation. “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease. The opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD “In patients with bronchiectasis, GERD is an important risk factor for recurrent microaspiration and progression of pulmonary disease,” says pulmonary and critical care physician . “For many of these patients with recurrent exacerbations and progressive respiratory compromise, the opportunity to treat the underlying GERD should not be overlooked.” “Overall, there should be serious consideration for low-risk minimally invasive surgery in select patients with complex pulmonary disease,” Dr. Damani says. “These procedures are very safe and may lead to a significant improvement in disease control.” Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris, MD, is a professor of medicine, associate director of education and faculty affairs in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, and director of the Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Fellowship. Her research focuses on bronchiectasis, sarcoidosis, and nontuberculous mycobacterial infection. Tanuja Damani, MD, is surgical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of surgery. She specializes in the minimally invasive treatment of disorders of the esophagus and stomach. Abraham R. Khan, MD, is medical director of the Center for Esophageal Health and an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of disorders of the esophagus and is passionate about using modern technology to prevent and treat these conditions. Gastroenterology & GI Surgery GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Melissa Latorre, MD Over the last 25 years, the internal medicine hospitalist care model has demonstrated improvements in hospital length of stay and readmissions, reductions in in-hospital mortality, and cost savings. More recently, subspecialties including gastroenterology (GI) have begun to adopt the model given its and the growing need to have physicians on-site for inpatient endoscopic interventions. At NYU Langone Health, four GI hospitalists (GIHs) are embedded across the system, with the first added six years ago. Last fall at the American College of Gastroenterology’s Annual Scientific Meeting, gastroenterologist , and colleagues presented data from a retrospective single-center study on the impact of hiring a GIH, finding that having such a specialist on-site is associated with reduced length of stay and an increase in inpatient general GI volumes “Since starting the GI hospitalist model at NYU Langone in 2017, there has been an approximately 55 percent increase in the number of inpatient endoscopic procedures performed annually,” Dr. Latorre says. “The GI attending is on-site and familiar with hospital operations, and they are able to address complications such as GI bleed within the same day if necessary.” “I think institutions understand the impact of a medicine hospitalist on inpatient care and can easily extrapolate the potential benefits a GI hospitalist can bring, especially in a busy quaternary care hospital like NYU Langone,” she says. Improved Metrics and Outcomes The support provided by the GIH model has enabled NYU Langone to launch several initiatives to streamline care, Dr. Latorre says, including a small bowel bleeding program to accommodate the increasing volume of patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage. As part of the program, GIHs acquired skills in video capsule endoscopy and deep enteroscopy to expedite the evaluation of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. A separate initiative reduced the incidence of postoperative bowel complications in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery, including small bowel ileus, perforation, and death. During the COVID-19 pandemic, a GIH-led enteral nutrition team helped to triage and place gastrostomy tubes for patients with long-term nutrition needs. The model was associated with lower in-hospital mortality following gastrostomy tube placement. The GIH team continues to explore opportunities for further quality improvement through this model, adds Dr. Latorre. Benefits to Both Sides The increased efficiencies of the GIH model also extend to outpatient care. “Studies at other institutions have shown that there is an increase in both inpatient and outpatient procedures with the hospitalist model,” notes Dr. Latorre. “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” “Hospital patients are treated more immediately, and you make the outpatient physicians more available.” While some outpatient physicians were initially skeptical, Dr. Latorre and her GIH colleagues have incorporated them as integral members of the patient’s inpatient care team. “With smart use of the electronic medical record and chats, we have complete transparency,” she says. “We’ve also created a better experience for the patients because we’re able to address the acute situation and send them back to their outpatient physician in a shorter time.” Education and Career Path Dr. Latorre believes the GI fellowship lends itself well to transitioning to a GIH role. “Fellows tend to spend much more time in the hospital during their training than they do in an ambulatory,” she says. “We work hand in hand with our trainees; education is a big part of what we do.” recent survey of GI fellowship program directors , many respondents believed a GIH would improve fellowship education and quality of inpatient care. Because they spend most of their time within the walls of the hospital and are familiar with the leadership, attendings, and physicians, “it’s common for hospitalists to integrate themselves into administrative roles within the hospital,” Dr. Latorre adds. “I think this career path is going to become more prevalent just as it has for medicine hospitalists,” she says. “The pace of a GIH’s day can be very different than that of their outpatient colleagues. While time in the hospital can be very demanding and unpredictable, I find tremendous satisfaction in helping patients with life-threatening gastrointestinal illnesses and training the future generation of gastroenterologists.” Melissa Latorre, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and section chief in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Her research focuses on improving outcomes in the inpatient gastroenterology setting. For a patient with a tumor in the head of the pancreas, a robotic approach enabled a safe operation and rapid recovery. Upwards of 80 percent of Whipple procedures at are performed robotically, a sharp rise from just a few years ago when the medical center first offered the robotic approach. The rapid growth positions NYU Langone Health as one of just a few centers across the nation executing a high-volume robotic Whipple program. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one,” says , director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and of Research Information Systems at The progress reflects the programmatic approach taken by NYU Langone’s integrated hepato-pancreato-biliary surgery team, and Dr. Winner emphasizes collaboration with surgical colleagues across NYU Langone’s campuses, including Eihab Abdelfatah, MD , in Long Island, and Steven M. Cohen, DO , in Manhattan. “We have raised our level of performance such that every person who’s eligible for a robotic Whipple, however complex, is able to get one.” According to Dr. Winner, the program’s success can be attributed to many players across NYU Langone who committed in concert, including surgeons, physician assistants (PAs), and members of leadership who purchased additional robotic surgical systems to ensure ample access. “The best way to do a Whipple efficiently is to engage the PAs who are robotically trained,” Dr. Winner says. “An unnecessarily long operation is not healthy for the patient or surgeon.” At the Long Island campus, procedures are typically completed in 3.5 hours, and patients can return home as early as 3 days following surgery. Early in adopting the robotic Whipple, Dr. Winner recalls performing on a patient with a tumor in a difficult location, in the posterior uncinate process and above the inferior vena cava. The case reinforced to Dr. Winner the unparalleled operative and postoperative experience offered by the procedure. “In adopting the robotic Whipple platform, I was worried about compromising any of the excellent quality that we have achieved in our open Whipple program. But what I’ve learned from my patients who went through these procedures is there is tremendous benefit offered by the robotic platform.” Dr. Winner has participated in courses sponsored by Intuitive Surgical, Inc. but is not a paid consultant for the company. Megan D. Winner, MD, MS, FACS, is an assistant professor of surgery, director of the Robotic Surgical Oncology Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, and director of Research Information Systems at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD A growing body of evidence suggests that atherosclerotic-related inflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Yet to date, there has been little research assessing the relationship between a diagnosis of an atherosclerotic-related condition and the risk of eventually developing IBD. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2023, researchers led by gastroenterologist Adam Faye, MD , an assistant professor of medicine and population health at NYU Langone Health, explored that question in unprecedented scope and detail. “That the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur.” Using the Swedish Patient Register and the ESPRESSO (Epidemiology Strengthened by histoPathology Reports in Sweden) cohort, the team identified more than 56,000 individuals with IBD between 2002 and 2021, and matched these cases to over 530,000 controls. They then calculated odds ratios (OR) for exposure to an atherosclerotic-related condition (myocardial infarction, thromboembolic stroke, or atherosclerosis itself) before diagnosis with IBD. “The Swedish data is one of the best assets available for this type of research,” Dr. Faye explains, “because it enables us to track diagnoses, healthcare usage, pathology reports, and prescriptions for every patient in the country over decades, with almost no loss to follow-up.” An Unprecedented Investigation It has long been known that IBD and atherosclerosis have partly overlapping pathophysiology, with plaque deposition leading to immune activation and upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. A 2013 study found the risk for ischemic heart disease to be highest in the year following a diagnosis of IBD , suggesting that atherosclerosis may have long preceded symptomatic bowel inflammation. More recently, studies have shown that statin use, which reduces the inflammatory burden associated with atherosclerosis, may reduce the risk of IBD The new investigation, however, was the first population-based case-control study to examine the potential links between atherosclerosis and the development of IBD. Dr. Faye and his colleagues evaluated the epidemiological associations between a prior atherosclerotic condition and the development of IBD, as well as between the number and types of atherosclerotic conditions and the development of IBD. An Array of Associations The team found that older adults who developed IBD were significantly more likely to have an atherosclerotic-related condition as compared to both the general population and sibling controls. Results were statistically significant for both Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis and were consistent regardless of the patient’s age at IBD diagnosis. “Atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the development of IBD.” The highest odds of a preceding atherosclerotic condition were seen in the 12 months before the IBD diagnosis, with patients with IBD being 78 percent more likely to have experienced an atherosclerotic condition within the year preceding their diagnosis compared to controls. But odds were also increased even five or more years earlier. “The fact that the association shows up long before diagnosis suggests we’re not just seeing two conditions that happen to co-occur,” says Dr. Faye. All types of atherosclerotic conditions were associated with increased odds of IBD, though the highest was for atherosclerosis itself—possibly, the researchers hypothesize, because patients with myocardial infarction or stroke were less likely to survive long enough to develop IBD. In addition, the odds for developing IBD were higher when two or more atherosclerotic conditions were present. “Our findings suggest that atherosclerosis prevention may be important not only to limit the development of cardiovascular disease, but also to limit the overall inflammatory burden and development of IBD,” says Dr. Faye. Although further research will be required to clarify the associations between the two conditions, he adds, these results might point toward future interventions (such as prophylactic statin administration) for patients with known risk factors for IBD. Dr. Faye has received consulting honoraria from Bristol Myers Squibb. Adam Faye, MD, MS, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. His research focuses on the causes and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in older adults. At NYU Langone, our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions in an atmosphere of compassion and respect. Our doctors include board-certified specialists in . We also offer specialists with expertise in allergic and contact dermatology dermatologic autoimmune diseases We are home to a leading dermatopathology laboratory accredited by the College of American Pathologists that interprets skin samples, helping our doctors to make effective diagnoses and develop tailored treatment plans. Through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit , we provide access to the latest clinical trials for many diseases and disorders of the skin, from complex autoimmune disorders to Clinical Trials and Research Our doctors provide patients access to the most innovative treatments through our Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit. Read More About Our Clinical Research During your first visit, your dermatologist performs a full-body examination of your skin to spot any potential problems and make a diagnosis. Your doctor discusses your condition and may recommend treatments or procedures that are best suited to your needs. Depending on the diagnosis, they may recommend medical, surgical, or cosmetic dermatology services. Our dermatologists collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , if you require further evaluation or treatment for skin cancer. If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please email dermatologyassociates@nyulangone.org for general and medical dermatology. For dermatologic surgery, call 212-263-7019 and select option 1. To refer a patient on Long Island, please call one of our Long Island physicians directly. This Dermatologist Eases Cancer-Treatment Side Effects The Art of Caring for Patients with Skin of Color NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Names New Dermatology Chief Customized Vaccine Offers New Hope for People with Melanoma Meet the Team That Conquered Skin Cancer at Its Most Complex Dermatology’s Special Focus on Patients with Skin of Color Blood Test Evaluates Effectiveness of Skin Cancer Treatment NYU Langone Receives Grant for Melanoma Research Study Finds the Body Absorbs Sunscreen Chemicals Investigators Develop Novel Blood Tests for Tumor DNA Expert Discusses Taking Care of Your Skin This Summer If Caught Early, Hair Loss Can Be Slowed or Even Reversed Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour Richard Lau, MD Requiring only one tiny incision, a breakthrough technique for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is minimizing pain and recovery times for patients. , a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, is helping to pioneer the minimally invasive procedure, providing the treatment in the outpatient setting without general anesthesia in under one hour. “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery.” “Minimally invasive lumbar decompression provides immense value. Patients often have little to no pain and fast recovery,” Dr. Lau says. “For carefully selected patients with LSS, this technique offers an exciting opportunity to dramatically improve their troublesome symptoms.” The MILD Procedure The MILD Procedure was initially developed in 2005, Dr. Lau explains, to help treat cancer patients who developed spinal stenosis but were unable to tolerate intensive surgery due to comorbidities. In recent years, the technique has been adapted to treat select patients with LSS. Based on positive results from the MiDAS ENCORE study , the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approved nationwide Medicare coverage of the procedure in 2017. “Since then, we’ve seen a big increase in demand,” Dr. Lau says. Backed by Robust Evidence Long-term follow up data suggest that 88 percent of patients with symptomatic LSS who undergo the procedure may be spared from open lumbar decompression surgery for at least 5 years, reflecting durable outcomes. Patients also report significant pain relief, functional improvement, and reduced pain medication usage. “Although open surgical decompression is associated with good outcomes in most patients, there may be potential complications,” Dr. Lau explains. “These can include local tissue trauma, persistent postoperative pain, and nerve damage.” There are additional concerns when treating older patients, Dr. Lau says, who often present with multiple comorbidities. Traditional spine surgery typically involves general anesthesia, and may involve a hospital stay and recovery period. “As a minimally invasive option, MILD represents a safe and effective alternative to open spine surgery—especially for select elderly patients,” Dr. Lau says. “The procedure requires no stitches, causes minimal discomfort, and has a strong safety profile, similar to that of an epidural steroid injection.” Determining Patient Candidacy To assess if a patient is a candidate, it is important to establish the diagnosis and etiology of LSS, Dr. Lau explains. This includes a detailed history and physical examination, with etiology primarily determined with imaging studies. “The most consistent finding of symptomatic LSS is the presence of neurogenic claudication, which may involve little or no pain at rest or when sitting or lying down,” Dr. Lau says. “Upon standing or walking, however, these patients experience back, buttock, and/or leg pain and report a progressive decline in their standing time and walking distance.” Dr. Lau encourages appropriate patients to undergo MILD as early as needed rather than waiting until they are at an advanced age, especially given that it’s covered by Medicare and some private payers. If providers are unsure whether a patient may be a suitable candidate, referring them for consultation is highly recommended. “This intervention can significantly impact patients’ quality of life,” Dr. Lau says. Richard Lau, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine. His clinical and research interests include minimally invasive lumbar decompression, pain management, and nerve block procedures. Two Factors Help Predict Hungry Bone Syndrome The two-point predictive scoring system can identify patients with renal hyperparathyroidism at a high risk of postparathyroidectomy HBS. The risk score includes 1 point for ALP >150 U/L and 1 point for markedly elevated PTH >1000 pg/mL. A score of 1 point confers 93.8% positive predictive value, whereas a score of 0 points would confer 100% negative predictive value. ADAPTED FROM: Endocr Pract . 2023 Nov;29(11):890-896. In a recent study published in Endocrine Practice , NYU Langone Health researchers identified two preoperative variables—serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP)—as being significantly associated with hungry bone syndrome (HBS) after parathyroidectomy for renal hyperparathyroidism. The team drew upon a decade of data to analyze the risk factors of postsurgical HBS, ultimately building a simple, 2-point scoring system based on PTH and ALP levels; the predictive algorithm identifies patients at high risk of HBS with nearly 97 percent accuracy. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS,” says endocrinologist Melissa Sum, MD , lead author on the study. Endocrine surgeon , served as a coinvestigator of the study. “Pairing this scoring system with a standardized perioperative treatment protocol has the potential to really reduce the incidence and/or severity of HBS.” HBS, characterized by significant hypocalcemia, can occur in the postoperative period following parathyroidectomy. Rapid diagnosis and management of HBS is imperative due to the possibility of life-threatening complications, including cardiac arrhythmias and generalized seizures. While previous reports have identified markedly elevated PTH and ALP to be associated with HBS development, the model is unique in its high accuracy, simplicity and utility in predicting patients at high risk of HBS, particularly in the preoperative setting. “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies.” “This is a very user-friendly tool to identify HBS that should significantly inform and improve post-operative care by enabling prevention and preemptive treatment strategies,” Dr. Suh says. Taken together, Dr. Sum says the findings support the utility of these metrics in future attempts to create standardized perioperative treatment protocols and electronic medical system alerts. “Our model predicts HBS in the preoperative setting with very high accuracy and has immense practical application,” she says. Endocrinology, Bone Health Melissa Sum, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, and content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module. She specializes in the treatment of disorders of calcium and bone metabolism. Illustrating for Clearer Communication in Medicine Michael B. Natter, MD, uses art to help explain treatment to patients. Artist and endocrinologist Michael B. Natter, MD , is an advocate for the use of sketching to commit to memory details about anatomy, pathophysiology, and more. Inspired to pursue endocrinology due to his own experience with type 1 diabetes, he says his passion for art has served as a learning tool throughout his medical career, and he frequently turns to drawing as a means of communication during patient visits. Here, Dr. Natter gives his perspective on the role of art in medicine and how mixing the two has made him a better physician. A Diagnosis and A Discovery Can you talk about your personal experience with diabetes? How has it inspired you to pursue a career in medicine, and in endocrinology specifically? Dr. Natter: Just two weeks after my ninth birthday, I got very sick and no one knew what was going on. I was rushed to the hospital and found to have diabetes; I was in diabetic ketoacidosis. I was in the ICU for a couple of weeks, and I remember it being incredibly scary. But it also was eye-opening. It sparked my fascination with medicine and with this beautiful symphony that takes place in our bodies that was, in my case, broken. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could.” Within endocrinology, I was drawn to the opportunity to form those longitudinal relationships with patients that you see again and again, ultimately pursuing it as my specialty. Mixing Art and Medicine When did you discover your interest in art, and when did you begin to connect it to your interest in medicine? I studied fine art as an undergraduate, doing large-scale charcoal drawings, figure drawings, and still lifes. I was always interested in medicine and anatomy, but I didn’t start practicing medical illustrations until I was in my post-bac program. In those classes, I would draw to learn anatomy, doodling in the margins. Then I would take the test, and all I could remember were my doodles—and it all clicked. Studying for hours on end can be very isolating. I wanted to do something I enjoyed while studying, so I traded my notebooks for sketchbooks and drew everything I could. To my surprise, I started doing better in my classes. Sketches, Comics, and More You now produce and sell your medical artwork regularly. Is there an overarching focus or theme? What are some of your favorite illustrations? My art falls into one of three buckets. The didactic bucket includes the art I created when teaching myself medicine, and the art I now create when teaching medicine to my colleagues, medical students, or patients. It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful.” There’s the cathartic bucket for graphic novel-type pieces or comics. These are funny or poke fun at some of the insecurities that we experience as we go through medical training. There’s one illustration of what would be me with a Foley catheter and an IV drip of coffee, which pokes fun at the ridiculousness of residency hours. The third bucket is my fine art that, unfortunately, I’ve done less of since starting medicine because the timing has been tough. A cartoon illustrating the main functions of the heart. A sketch of the heart overlaying an electrocardiogram. An illustration of three common mechanisms underlying hypercalcemia and key treatments. An illustration of five key considerations for headache. An illustration of conditions that tend to be misdiagnosed as hepatic encephalopathy due to their ability to suppress consciousness. Art as a Process, Not a Product How can incorporating art into your medical practice help patients with diabetes, and those with other chronic medical conditions? With chronic illness, especially with conditions like diabetes, you need to have agency and understand the pathophysiology. You need to understand what’s wrong with your pancreas, with your system, with whatever is wrong. For a patient to understand that pathophysiology, a lot of it falls on us as physicians to educate. The common language is images. You don’t need to speak Spanish to draw a picture. There’s something magical that happens when I meet a patient for the first time that has diabetes. I always ask them, “Can you tell me what your understanding is of your diabetes?” From there, I’m able to build. Very often, I’m pulling out my sketch pad and drawing for them. People in the medical world say, “Well, I can’t draw. I’m not an artist.” It’s not the product that’s important, but the process that a provider takes with the patient that’s so powerful. You’re creating rapport, and you’re showing them that you’re taking the time to help them understand—that’s very powerful. When you are discussing as you’re drawing, I really do think you’re able to get a better understanding from the learner. More Than Your Title How have other physicians responded to your art? I’ve had the opportunity to work with colleagues in dermatology, nephrology, and other fields on medical illustrations for publications. That’s been really fun. For a lot of adults, there’s this idea of identifying only as one thing. In medicine, I think we become our physician identity, but there’s so much more to us that is valuable, important, and worth celebrating. It’s important that we acknowledge and talk about those aspects of ourselves. Not only because it makes us more human, but also because I believe it makes us better doctors. Michael B. Natter, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine. He specializes in the treatment of diabetes and disorders of the endocrine system. Diabetes & Endocrinology Early Time-Restricted Feeding Improves Metabolic Outcomes A schematic of the dietary interventions used in the study. Ten participants with prediabetes and obesity were randomized 1:1 to either one week of a usual feeding pattern or one week of an eTRF pattern, after which they crossed over to the alternate arm for one additional week. B, breakfast; L, lunch; D, dinner. ADAPTED FROM: Bruno, J. (2023, June 15-18). The Time-Restricted Feeding Effects on Inflammation and Obesity (TRIO) Study [Conference Presentation]. ENDO 2023. Chicago, IL, United States. Compared to a usual feeding pattern, eTRF significantly reduces glycemic variation and hyperglycemia, defined as the percent of time with blood glucose (BG) levels above 140 mg/dL. These effects were independent of weight loss. Early time-restricted feeding (eTRF) may be a useful dietary strategy for diabetes prevention and improving glycemic outcomes, according to a new study presented at the Endocrine Society’s 2023 annual meeting “eTRF is a form of intermittent fasting that involves restricting calories to the early hours of the day,” says study lead author Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, an endocrinology fellow at NYU Langone Health. “This feeding strategy, through its effect on blood glucose levels, may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” “This feeding strategy may prevent those with prediabetes or obesity from progressing to type 2 diabetes.” Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD For their study, the researchers compared eTRF (80 percent of calories consumed before 1:00PM) to a usual feeding pattern (50 percent of calories consumed after 4:00PM) among 10 participants with prediabetes and obesity. Food was provided to meet the patients’ caloric needs for weight maintenance to determine the weight-independent effects of this strategy and patients wore continuous glucose monitors throughout the study. The study is the first to evaluate the effects of eTRF on glycemia and inflammation independent of weight loss. “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding.” Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD “We decreased the time these individuals were having high blood glucose levels with just one week of eTRF feeding,” says study senior author José O. Alemán, MD, PhD , an assistant professor of medicine. “The findings show that eating a majority of one’s calories earlier in the day reduces the time that the blood glucose is elevated, thereby improving metabolic health.” Endocrinology, Adult Hospital Medicine Jose O. Aleman, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine. His clinical and research interests include weight management, metabolism, and insulin resistance. Joanne Bruno, MD, PhD, is an endocrinology fellow within the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. Presenters at the 2024 ACC Scientific Sessions On April 6 to 8, researchers and physicians from NYU Langone Heart joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2024 Scientific Sessions in Atlanta. During this year’s ACC Scientific Sessions, , will be honored with the 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease award. This prestigious recognition celebrates individuals who have made significant contributions to advancing cardiovascular care for women, underscoring their dedication and impact in the field. Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Saturday, April 6 The Association Between Air Pollution and In-Hospital Myocardial Infarction Outcomes in a Nationwide Dataset Session 1246: Ischemic Heart Disease: Population Science 03 Luke Bonanni, 11:45AM–12:30PM Sunday, April 7 Breakthrough Therapies: A Year in Review Session 683: Breakthrough Therapies, the Year in Review: Joint Symposium of the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions and the American College of Cardiology 8:30–9:45AM Cardiometabolic Risk Factor Burden and Circulating Biomarkers in Patients with Chronic Coronary Disease in the ISCHEMIA Trials Session 1372–1372: Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease 09 Carine Hamo, MD Wenbo Wu, PhD Rebecca Anthopolos Sripal Bangalore, MD Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD 10:15–11:00AM Perceived Usability of Mobile Health Cardiac Rehabilitation Among Older Adults Session 1422–1422: Innovation, Digital Health, and Technology 12 Kirra Borrello, Camila Johanek, Samrachana Adhikari, PhD Jonathan H. Whiteson, PhD Barbara J. George, EdD Gregory J. Sweeney, DPT Antoinette M. Schoenthaler, EdD , Pavel Placido, John A. Dodson, MD, MPH 1:15–2:00PM Visual Estimates of Coronary Slow Flow Are Not Associated with Invasive Wire-Based Diagnosis of Coronary Microvascular Dysfunction Session 1078: Ischemic Heart Disease: What’s New in Assessment of IHD Kenneth Harkin, Ethan Loftspring, Amanda Joa, Ayman Farid, MD Claudia C. Serrano-Gomez, MD 2:15–2:25PM Getting to the Heart of the Problem—Challenges with Diagnosing Heart Failure from the Electronic Health Record Session 1464: Heart Failure and Cardiomyopathies: Population Science 14 Sharon Klein, Talia Nadel, Saul B. Blecker, MD 3:15–4:00PM Monday, April 8 The (Left) Main Event: If You’re Going to Use Imaging Somewhere Session 733: Intravascular Imaging for Complex Cases: Left Main, Multi-Vessel Disease, Calcium and CTO 11:15–11:25AM 2024 Bernadine Healy Leadership in Women’s CV Disease NYU Langone Recipient: Session: Convocation and Reception 4:00–6:00PM Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 Before COVID-19-related restrictions were introduced in March of 2020, the mean nighttime noise level across 6 units in 2 NYC nursing home facilities ranged from 40 to 51 decibels (dB). After restrictions were implemented, those levels rose to 44 to 57 dB. ADAPTED FROM: JAMDA . 2021 May;22:P974-976. Controlling the spread of COVID-19 in nursing homes was greatly complicated by asymptomatic carriers, atypical symptoms, and the frequency of close contact between staff and residents. In March 2020, the CDC implemented multiple restrictions in a bid to limit the spread of COVID-19 in those care settings, including restricting all visitors and nonessential personnel and canceling communal dining and group activities. As part of a larger research effort in New York City nursing homes to improve residents’ sleep/wake patterns , researchers at NYU Langone Health and their collaborators compared changes in nighttime noise before and after implementation of the 2020 COVID-19-related restrictions. Previous research had linked higher noise levels to poor sleep and more behavioral disturbance among residents. The new study, published in Journal of the American Medical Directors Association and led by , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative care, found that nighttime noise levels abruptly increased after the CDC-recommended restrictions. Data collected from noise-monitoring devices on six units in two nursing homes showed a significant increase in noise at all locations within one facility and about half of all locations within the second facility. Those changes persisted for months. Isolation from family and friends, the absence of normal recreational activities, and changes in care providers due to illness of regular staff may have contributed to altered sleep and more noise, says study coauthor and geriatric nursing specialist Abraham A. Brody, PhD . “Simply put, nursing homes were turned on their head. They were struggling to provide care and stay afloat with both residents and staff getting sick.” “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Dr. Brody says one lasting lesson is the importance of the 24-hour sleep cycle. “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes, and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN Geriatrics, Palliative Care Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN, is a professor of medicine, the Mathy Mezey Professor of Geriatric Nursing and associate director of the Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing. He specializes in the intersection of geriatrics, palliative care, quality, and equity. Heart Surgery Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Case exemplifies the need for suspicion of IE in patients with underlying valvular defects. MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis Is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack An expert discusses untangling those heart attacks that disproportionately affect female patients. VIDEO: Cardiologist Dr. Harmony R. Reynolds discusses how MINOCA, a form of heart attack more common in women than men, is different from a typical heart attack, and shares new research about how imaging tests can help doctors correctly diagnose it. , conducts ongoing research into the root causes of heart attacks unassociated with obstructive coronary artery disease. With support from the American Heart Association (AHA), Dr. Reynolds is leading one of the first-ever long-term studies to utilize advanced imaging to identify the conditions behind heart attacks in predominantly female patients. Here, she provides insights on the ways in which comprehensive evaluation and diagnosis can support more targeted treatment and care of these patients. Much of your research centers on cardiac concerns of women. Can you tell us the difference between the types of ischemic heart disease that tend to impact female patients more than males? Dr. Reynolds: There are two related but distinct disorders: myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA), and ischemia with no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA). MINOCA is now recognized as true heart attack, but without the typical clinical picture of severe coronary narrowing. Patients generally may have plaque but their arteries are less than 50 percent obstructed. It’s a heterogenous diagnosis with several pathophysiological mechanisms. Like MINOCA patients with acute coronary syndrome, patients with stable INOCA have unobstructed arteries with true ischemia, frequently presenting as chest pain. The main mechanisms of INOCA appear to be microvascular disease and coronary artery spasm. Coronary artery spasm can also cause MINOCA. In both cases, patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out. For many patients, once we conduct the specific testing our center is equipped for, we find abnormal results that point to a root cause. “Patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out.” How does pinpointing the specific diagnosis contribute to better cardiac outcomes for these patients? Advanded diagnostics often yield more subtle findings that can help us both prognosticate and better tailor treatment. And there’s reason to perform these targeted tests early as some findings, such as myocardial edema, are transient. The initial injury from an infarct event is much larger and more easily discoverable than the final scar, particularly in patients with MINOCA. The other benefit is psychological. Before a specific diagnosis, patients with INOCA may have been told they’re overreacting, that it’s “just stress,” but they know something’s wrong when they can’t walk two blocks without shortness of breath. When we give a name to patients’ diagnosis and recommend treatment, I often think it’s as helpful to their quality of life as prescription. The Path Toward Diagnosis What are those pecific tests, and how do they inform diagnosis and care? Timely cardiac MRI is really important in patients with MINOCA, because somewhere between 20 to 40 percent of patients may ultimately have a nonischemic diagnosis. But within ischemic injury, a significant cohort are found to be atherosclerotic. There’s a range of those findings, from large, dense infarct to myocardial regional edema, an early sign of injury with no late gadolinium enhancement. For those patients with ischemic MINOCA, we tailor secondary measures to prevent another event. When there is atherosclerotic plaque rupture or erosion on coronary optical coherence tomography (OCT)—which uses light to image blood vessel walls—we take typical secondary prevention measures, just as in typical heart attack. Only imaging from inside the vessel wall provides enough detail to see that plaque has ruptured or has erosion. Only having some plaque present is not enough to cause an event. For up to two thirds of patients with MINOCA, OCT combined with MRI identifies a pattern suggestive of coronary artery spasm, which significantly impacts care. Observational studies indicate that calcium channel blockers can reduce mortality in this patient subset, and we typically prescribe long-acting nitrates as well. In INOCA, our interventional cardiologists have conducted studies examining the role of invasive testing, such as index of micro-circulatory resistance, which indicates resistance problems in the microvasculature, and measurement of coronary flow reserve. We perform spasm testing, available at only a few centers nationwide, to create individualized treatment plans for patients. For those who prefer noninvasive testing, we combine cardiac MRI with positron emission tomography (PET), for a highly valid diagnosis of microvascular disease. Gender, Genes, and Other Causes Is it well understood why women experience these nditions more frequently than men? One theory involves estrogen receptor signaling; whether hormone expression could trigger the cascade of cardiovascular changes that trigger MINOCA or INOCA. In our AHA-funded program studying myocardial infarction in women, we performed whole blood RNA sequencing on a group of women with MINOCA, identifying unique pathways that are differentially regulated in those patients as compared to heart attack patients with coronary disease and controls. The other question is, are women expressing their symptoms differently? To what degree do home and family care responsibilities perhaps provoke more chest pain with less coronary disease or ischemia? One of our natural history studies from the ISCHEMIA trial revealed that women with obstructive coronary disease had less extensive disease and more angina than men with obstructive disease. In our study of INOCA, we observed substantial variability in stress test findings and in symptoms over time. That is consistent with what we see in clinical practice, where symptoms ebb and flow. Is this related to differences in hormone programming, vascular function, or even neural control? There is still so much to learn about how ischemia relates back to symptoms in day-to-day life. Harmony R. Reynolds, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Sarah Ross Soter Center for Women’s Cardiovascular Research. She takes a special interest in less common heart disease syndromes that disproportionately affect women, particularly heart attack and chest pain with open arteries. Conditions We Treat Through Care on Demand providers at NYU Langone see adults who do not already have a primary care physician. We offer walk-in primary care without an appointment for nonurgent and nonemergency conditions. Conditions Our Care on Demand Providers Treat Our providers manage the following conditions: symptoms gastrointestinal issues pain—chronic or intermittent pink eye or viral illnesses such as the common cold, Conditions We Do Not Treat Please call 911 or go to the nearest location for medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in harm to yourself or others. 212-263-3991 At NYU Langone’s Nerve Center, we provide compassionate, comprehensive treatment for people who have disabilities resulting from cranial or peripheral nerve injuries or defects, whether you have been born with a congenital problem or have had an injury as a child or adult. Our team of experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery evaluates each person to design a treatment plan that meets your needs. In addition, we collaborate closely with NYU Langone specialists in neurology, neurosurgery, rehabilitation, and radiology to deliver comprehensive care. We treat a broad range of conditions affecting the nerves due to cranial or peripheral injury or defect. These include: facial nerve palsy or paralysis, which are facial nerve disorders affecting the muscles of the face brachial plexopathy, or injury to the brachial plexus, the network of nerves that sends signals from your spine to your shoulder, arm, and hands compression neuropathy, which occurs when nerves become compressed (the most common form is post-traumatic peripheral nerve pathology, which involves damage to your peripheral nerves, often causing weakness, numbness, and pain, usually affecting the hands and feet Our experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery offer advanced, personalized, and compassionate care for each patient we see. Sheel Sharma Vishal D. Thanik 516-663-1220 Long Island Vein Center The NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center provides specialized care for patients with venous conditions, including , spider and reticular veins, lipodermatosclerosis, leg swelling, , May-Thurner syndrome, pelvic congestion, and . Our mission is to provide patients with comprehensive knowledge, care, and treatment options. All procedures are performed by board-certified vascular surgeons with a passion for treating venous disease. In addition, most procedures are performed on an outpatient basis and are minimally invasive: they are done without large incisions or the need for prolonged recovery. Patients are seen and evaluated at , and procedures are performed at our Vein Center at 200 Old Country Road, Suite 120, in Mineola. Treatments for Venous Conditions Our aim is to guide patients towards the best treatment option for their individual conditions. These are some of the methods we use to treat venous conditions: thermal ablation with endovenous laser therapy or radiofrequency ablation (EVLT or RFA) nonthermal ablation with Varithena or VenaSeal stab phlebectomy, or microphlebectomy, to remove varicose veins from the surface of the legs sclerotherapy for treating spider and reticular veins venography with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) for treatment of deep venous disease For conditions such as lymphedema or leg swelling, we evaluate, diagnose, and offer referrals for lymphedema pump therapy or lymphedema clinics for decongestive therapy. Our team of experts offers a variety of medical specialties, tests, and services. 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy) Brooklyn, NY 11220 929-502-0386 In March 2023, Medicaid stopped providing the continuous coverage available during COVID-19. Many Medicaid beneficiaries must reenroll to keep coverage. Beyond Bridges at has partnered with Public Health Solutions (PHS) to provide additional Medicaid reenrollment support to the community. In-Person Reenrollment Hours In-person reenrollment support is available on Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. Online Reenrollment Support Online resources are available to help eligible individuals and families reenroll in Medicaid. Resources to Assist with Online Reenrollment Public Health Solutions provides step-by-step assistance in understanding health coverage options, helping eligible individuals and families obtain free or low-cost health insurance. For more information, visit Public Health Solutions To request assistance, complete the Find Services Form . One of the Public Health Solutions coordinators will connect you to your requested resources. Direct Online Reenrollment If you’d like to enroll online, visit the New York State of Health Marketplace to get started. Phone Reenrollment Support Multilingual enrollers are available to assist by calling In-Person Reenrollment Support English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM at the following location: (in the lobby, beside the pharmacy) Additional Reenrollment Support The Financial Planning Office at the can also help you renew your Medicaid eligibility. Call 718-630-8303 FHCMedicaidOffice@NYULangone.org for assistance. Patients may also contact the online or by calling 855-355-5777 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy), Brooklyn, NY, 11220 English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. , our team of geneticists, rheumatologists, and hematologists collaborates to provide unmatched care to people with VEXAS syndrome. VEXAS—the name is an acronym for vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic—syndrome is a rare, serious condition that develops in adults and causes a broad range of progressive inflammatory and hematologic symptoms, including fever, fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, shortness of breath, and low blood cell counts. Because VEXAS syndrome is a newly recognized disorder and its symptoms overlap with many common rheumatologic and hematologic conditions, it is a diagnosis often overlooked. The only reliable way to establish a VEXAS syndrome diagnosis is by genetic testing of the UBA1 gene. The diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome can lead to improvements in medical management and more-effective treatments for patients. The specialists on our multidisciplinary team—led by David B. Beck, MD, PhD , of the Beck Lab and a member of the research team that first identified VEXAS syndrome—are recognized experts in their fields, including genetics, rheumatology, and hematology. We work with you and your doctor to provide a personalized treatment plan for your specific constellation of symptoms and needs. We see patients in Manhattan at 333 East 38th Street, on the fourth floor. But whether you live locally or outside of New York City, please feel free to contact our team with any questions about VEXAS syndrome. To make an appointment or learn more about VEXAS syndrome, contact us at BeckClinic@NYULangone.org . We welcome inquiries from patients, their loved ones, and healthcare providers. Prior to your appointment, please provide the following information, which is important for our assessment: all genetic testing results, especially any that include the UBA1 gene bone marrow biopsy results any recent rheumatology and hematology provider notes and blood work results Research and Clinical Studies In addition to our goals of improving our patients’ health, care, and quality of life, our team actively conducts research and clinical studies to better understand the condition. Understanding why VEXAS syndrome occurs, its long-term effects, the genetic and molecular mechanisms of the condition, and why it presents differently across patients will help us develop new, more-effective treatments. It is helpful for people with rare conditions like VEXAS syndrome to join clinical trials because finding an adequate number of patients for effective clinical studies—as we are doing at NYU Langone’s VEXAS Syndrome Care Program—can be challenging. Learn more about our current active trial, the Autoimmune and Autoinflammatory Genetics Study , at ClinicalTrials.gov. If you are interested in being involved in research and potential clinical studies, contact Dr. Beck and our team at VEXAS Syndrome Care Program Team Gary H. Ho, MD Mei-Kay Wong, MS, MPH, CGC, CPH Jun H. Choi MD 63 Downing Street New York, NY 10014 212-255-6690 Clinical Services Physical Therapy Services for Individuals Psychological Services for Individuals Medical Services Return to Work Program Consulting Services Corporate On-Site Physical Therapy Program Corporate Stress Management Program Corporate On-Site Medical Services Corporate Ergonomics Program Product Design & Consulting NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center is an interdisciplinary center for the treatment and prevention of musculoskeletal disorders. Our scientists, educators, and clinicians have expertise in managing the physical, psychological, and work-related aspects of musculoskeletal conditions. These specialists provide treatment, research, education, and consultation services, to the community and the workforce all under one roof. VIDEO: NYU Langone patient Maria McConnell discusses how the medical team at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center helped her recover from a severe back injury. Clinical and Consulting Services As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing disability in the workplace. We combine therapeutic and medical technology with the expertise of specialists from NYU Langone Health. At the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, organizations have access to complete medical and diagnostic services, physical therapy, pain and stress management, and ergonomic workplace evaluation and accommodations. Our clinical services are designed to return workers to their pre-injury work status and everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership that empowers patients to become active participants in their care. Our clinic offers ergonomics services Our consulting services include a corporate physical therapy program product design and evaluation Our physical therapists help the people they treat return to daily activities after injury or surgery. Ka Hing Chow ZD Zihao Du DPT, PT Dina Shah Innovations and advances in the treatment offered at Rusk Rehabilitation have set the standard in rehabilitation care for every stage of life and every phase of recovery. We offer expert treatment for a wide range of bone and joint conditions, paying special attention to patient comfort and convenience. We offer comprehensive treatment for the full spectrum of spinal disorders, so you can return to your normal activities. We have one of the largest orthopedic surgery programs in the country, providing care to tens of thousands of patients each year—from infants to older adults. 63 Downing Street, New York, NY, 10014 212-255-6754 Parking Metered parking spots are available along 6th and 7th Avenues. Other parking can be found on side streets. Please be sure to check posted signs for street cleaning and alternate side parking rules. There are also several parking garages located near Downing Street. We are open Monday through Thursday, 8:00AM to 7:00PM, and Friday, 8:00AM to 5:00PM Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Study tests digital innovation against traditional prevention programs for older patients. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection CDC-funded center will create national platform for sharing new initiatives. Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Specialists in geriatric cardiology call for greater attention to asymptomatic atrial fibrillation. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults A pilot program explores strategies to return more geriatric patients home safely. Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Large outcomes study signals a shift from watchful to operative management of PEHs in older adults. Classifying Glioma in Minutes VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Study finds virtual reality holds broad potential for neurosurgical bypass planning. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Collaborative research aims to deepen understanding of perceptual dysfunction—and to test a new paradigm for AI. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans Unique database combines longitudinal imaging with artificial intelligence tools to mine data and assess cancer progression. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurosurgeons joined international colleagues in Los Angeles, April 21–24. Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis After multiple ineffective surgeries, neurologists pinpoint the rare condition and a potential medical treatment. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery With only 15 percent of the airway patent, treatment also required debulking via rigid bronchoscopy. A CT scan of the tracheal tumor. Fortuitous CT Reveals Hidden Tracheal Tumor A pediatric patient with a large tracheal tumor is cancer free after specialists at NYU Langone Health and Perlmutter Center teamed up to safely diagnose and resect the unusual growth. The patient presented to the pediatric intensive care unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital for respiratory sequelae initially attributed to COVID-19 when the mass was detected by CT. “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient,” says , an interventional pulmonologist assisting on the case. “We enjoy seeing each other work at such a high level.” “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient.” The mass emanated into the trachea from the posterior wall and blocked roughly 85 percent of the airway. The best treatment was determined to be surgical resection, but a biopsy was performed first to rule out lymphoma or other conditions not requiring major surgery. Dr. Bessich and pediatric pulmonologist , performed the biopsy using rigid bronchoscopy, chosen over flexible bronchoscopy for the ability to ventilate the airway. During the procedure, ablative therapy was also administered to excise a large portion of the tumor and minimize any risk of obstruction before surgery. “This was the youngest patient I’d ever seen with a tracheal mass, and it was the second youngest patient I’d ever performed a rigid bronchoscopy on,” says Dr. Bessich. When the biopsy confirmed that surgery was required, the patient was immediately scheduled, with pediatric surgeon , placing the patient on venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV ECMO) and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, performing the minimally invasive operation. “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO.” “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO,” says Dr. Cerfolio. Pathology and genetic analyses ultimately determined the tumor to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma. With no signs of metastasis, it is unlikely that radiation or chemotherapy will be required. A Fortuitous CT Scan An 11-year-old patient was admitted to NYU Langone Health for symptoms attributed to severe COVID-19 when a large tracheal tumor was detected by CT. The mass left the airway only 15 percent patent and vulnerable to obstruction. Rigid bronchoscopy was performed to collect a specimen for biopsy and debulk the tumor. Determining the Best Approach to Treatment Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, performing the robotic surgery for tracheal resection and reconstruction. The pathology report ruled out conditions amenable to non-surgical treatment, confirming the need for tumor resection, and the patient was immediately scheduled for surgery. A Robotic Tracheal Reconstruction Supported by ECMO Surgeon’s view during the robotic tracheal resection and reconstruction. The minimally invasive robotic surgery involved removing the section of the trachea with the tumor and rejoining the two ends for reconstruction. Excellent Planning, an Efficient Surgery, and No Metastasis Jason C. Fisher, MD (left), and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD (right), in the operating room. The surgery was completed in 1 hour and 30 mins, and the patient was extubated the same day and breathing on her own within hours. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test confirmed the mass to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma and imaging revealed no signs of metastasis. Jamie L. Bessich, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the interim section chief of Interventional Pulmonology. Her research focuses on diagnosing lung neoplasms and lymph nodes using endoscopic ultrasound and advanced bronchoscopic techniques. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH , an acclaimed surgeon and expert in treating breast cancer, was recently named chief of the breast surgery division at NYU Langone Health’s . She is also a member of the With nearly three decades of experience, she has held several leadership positions and made numerous contributions to the field in both research and education. Here, Dr. Gemignani shares her perspective on leadership and training, spotlights key advancements in the field, and discusses her goals for improving the care of young women with cancer. The Value of Strong Leadership Dr. Gemignani , what motivated you to take on leadership roles in your field? Dr. Gemignani: In today’s healthcare landscape, the need for strong leadership is greater than ever, as it is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. The rapid advancement of clinical technologies like robotics, artificial intelligence, and precision medicine warrants the ability to assess how to successfully incorporate and leverage these innovations. When a healthcare team is not working together effectively, or lacks direction, patients often pay the price. Understanding this early in my career, I wanted to make a difference. The field of oncology, specifically women’s health and breast cancer, captured my attention in medical school. For the past two decades, my focus has been leading multidisciplinary teams in a variety of research and educational initiatives. What are your plans for education and surgical training at NYU Langone? Great question. It’s an exciting time to be an educator in surgical oncology—the landscape of education has changed to include roles and opportunities that expand beyond the operating room. I’m thrilled that we’ve been able to attract the best and brightest medical students and physicians to our field. Early exposure to the field of oncology can spark students’ interest in becoming a cancer physician. “The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable.” Mary Gemignani, MD, MPH One of my passions is training future leaders. As I previously mentioned, strong leadership is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. For almost 15 years, I directed one of the nation’s leading breast surgery fellowship programs, which produced many of the leaders in the field today. The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable. I took a unique approach to training by ensuring my students gained more than just surgical skills. One example is by providing leadership-specific feedback, as current feedback mechanisms largely focus on clinical or technical skills. It is crucial to provide formative feedback to reinforce positive leadership behaviors and correct problematic ones. Here, I plan to do the same. Advancements in Estrogen-Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer You’ve been a breast surgeon for about 25 years. From your perspective, what is the key research area pushing the field forward? There is such a diversity—it’s really hard to pick just one. In the domain of imaging, the FDA recently approved the use of 18F-fluoroestradiol/positron-emission tomography (FES/PET) for patients with estrogen-receptor-positive (ER+) recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. My team published on the feasibility of the technique before it was commercialized by a biotech company. This advancement significantly improves our ability to stage ER+ cancer. While targeted therapy is effective for patients with ER+ disease, the evaluation of ER expression with immunohistochemical staining of biopsy samples is limited by factors such as sampling error, false negatives, and difficulties accessing biopsy sites. Serving as an adjunct to biopsy, FES helps to identify a target lesion for confirmatory biopsy, provide in vivo evaluation of biopsy-proven ER+ disease, and assess spatial and temporal ER heterogeneity. As experience with the tracer grows, expanded indications are possible, including use as a predictive biomarker for targeted therapy. Supporting Young Women Who Have Cancer In addition to pursuing clinical advancements, you are dedicated to promoting holistic care, especially for young women with cancer. Can you tell us more about this work? Yes. At my previous institution, I was co-director of the Young Women with Breast Cancer program, offering a full spectrum of care, support, education, and research for young women diagnosed with this disease. Young women with breast cancer—aged 45 or younger—face unique challenges, including interruption of work or school, treatment-related infertility, and issues with disruption of parental responsibilities. We conducted research to uncover the most pressing issues that hold significance for this population. I am now working to ensure that our care delivery prioritizes and effectively addresses those issues patients find most important. “The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options.” In a similar vein—my research interests extend to quality of life studies and patient-reported outcomes, specifically focusing on minimizing the side effects of treatment in young women with breast cancer. A good example is cytotoxic chemotherapy—investigating the types of chemotherapy, their doses, and treatment durations that result in the least amount of gonadal toxicity. The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options. Elevating Care, Expanding Access What are your top priorities as you step into your new role? In my new role, I’m excited to work with other leaders across NYU Langone to continue to standardize the delivery of breast surgical care and expand access to clinical trials at all sites, including those in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Bringing my experience to a larger health system, I’m also excited about the opportunity to collaborate with other leaders within the organization. Take NYU Langone’s , where our patients, particularly young women with breast cancer, have access to the latest techniques for fertility preservation. Working together we can improve the quality of life for those patients during and after treatment. Alone, I cannot achieve all of my research goals. Here, we have a unique opportunity to bring together the best and brightest from a variety of disciplines. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH, is chief of the breast surgery division at Perlmutter Cancer Center and a member of the Department of Surgery. She specializes in breast cancer surgery. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 See the experts from NYU Langone Health who are joining international colleagues in Chicago, May 15 to 19. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users An auditory scientist searches for potential solutions by studying patients with single-sided deafness. No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination An analysis of over 20 million vaccinated patients finds a higher facial paralysis risk with COVID-19 infection, but not with vaccination. Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations New study explores minimally invasive procedure with novel growth factor to heal tympanic membrane perforations. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Radiation oncologist and clinical trials leader Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD , has joined NYU Langone Health’s as director of clinical research at the . He also serves as associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Dr. Yang has been at the forefront of driving innovation in the treatment of metastatic cancers and central nervous system (CNS) malignancies, leading several pivotal studies in leptomeningeal metastases (LM), systemic metastatic disease, and primary brain tumors. Here, Physician Focus speaks with Dr. Yang about the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. He also discusses upcoming clinical trials, two of which are set to open at Perlmutter Cancer Center later this year. Proton Therapy for Leptomeningeal Metastasis Dr. Yang, you recently presented encouraging data from a phase 2 trial suggesting that proton therapy is more effective than conventional radiation at treating LM. Why are these results important, and what’s next for this work? Dr. Yang: Exciting progress has been made in the treatment of LM. Prior to our study, photon involved-field radiotherapy was the standard of care for patients with LM from solid tumors. Although the choices have traditionally been limited for LM, we now have a better option—proton craniospinal irradiation —for a disease that is notoriously difficult to treat. “With the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise.” While conventional radiotherapy effectively treats local symptoms, craniospinal irradiation treats the entire leptomeningeal compartment. Protons deposit the bulk of their energy at the last few millimeters of their range, leading to significantly less toxicity Furthermore, advancements in imaging technology novel cerebrospinal fluid diagnostic tools have enabled better detection of LM. So now, with the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise. Building on these findings, we’re analyzing molecular data from patients to pinpoint biomarkers that can aid in patient selection. We also plan to validate these results in a larger group of patients in an upcoming national trial. Trailblazing in Clinical Trials Beyond LM, what other promising trials are on the horizon? There are several in progress, but I’ll highlight two. The first is a phase 1 trial evaluating AZD1390 , an ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase inhibitor, in combination with radiotherapy for patients with glioblastoma. Despite efforts to improve survival in glioblastoma, a backbone of radiotherapy with or without temozolomide has remained the standard of care for the past two decades. AZD1390 showed promising preclinical results by offering antitumor effects without worsening radiotherapy toxicity in the healthy brain tissue. At the AACR Annual Meeting 2024, I presented early safety and efficacy results for the combination approach, showcasing its potential utility as a radiosensitizing treatment in glioblastoma. I am continuing to work with the sponsor in not only the development of AZD1390 with radiotherapy in brain tumors, but also in systemic metastatic disease, for which we are in the process of opening a trial here at NYU Langone. The second is a national trial that will investigate the use of prophylactic radiation therapy—compared with standard of care—for asymptomatic, high-risk bone metastases. In most cases, radiation therapy is utilized to treat painful bone metastases, but we’re interested in examining the potential advantages of a proactive strategy. The study protocol, which builds upon a previous phase 2 trial , is currently being finalized, with plans to open later this year. What excites you about combining targeted therapy with radiotherapy? Drug–radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs, but still working towards overcoming obstacles and improving patient outcomes. “Drug-radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs.” To overcome barriers, such as the perceived impracticality of conventional regulatory end points and comparatively more-limited collaborations among sponsors and radiation oncologists, we’ll have to prioritize communication among key stakeholders. In addition, there is still a considerable amount of work needed to reduce attrition rates of novel radiosensitizers in the clinic. In a nutshell, we’re not quite there yet, but we’re moving in the right direction. Opening the Doors to Collaboration Looking ahead, what are your plans for the next three to five years? We plan to open more clinical trials. To achieve this goal, we plan to pursue further public and private research funding, strengthen relationships with our industry partners, and build collaborations with experts within and outside of the cancer center. Our main focus will be on developing novel therapeutic strategies for primary brain tumors and systemic metastatic disease. Health outcomes studies, particularly those incorporating quality of life assessments, will also be a priority. In addition, we will further enhance our understanding of tumor biology through investigation of genomics and changes to the tumor microenvironment in the setting of novel therapeutics. This will help us to better personalize treatments. Unlike standalone cancer centers, Perlmutter Cancer Center’s placement within a larger healthcare system offers unique opportunities for research collaborations. Few institutions prioritize research to the level that NYU Langone does. Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD, is the associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of clinical research at the Brain and Spine Tumor Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treating metastatic cancers and CNS malignancies using advanced radiation techniques. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Hot topics included personalized medicine, CRISPR, healthcare disparities, and liquid biopsies. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Meet the cancer experts joining international colleagues in Chicago from May 31 to June 4. Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs New study finds an anti-VEGF biosimilar could increase costs to patients and the healthcare system. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox Mpox manifestations in patients with untreated HIV/AIDS bear striking resemblance to progressive vaccinia. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 Visible light OCT reveals that the region’s association with mitochondria needs rethinking. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Experimental organoid-based system could offer a leap forward for research into blinding corneal diseases. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion In patients treated for macular edema with intravitreal aflibercept, AI may provide insights into personalized treatments. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Digital version of Rapid Automized Naming could have broad neurological applications. Rapid Automized Naming (RAN) tasks have shown strong potential in the assessment of a variety of neurologic disorders. One RAN task, the Mobile Universal Lexicon Evaluation System (MULES) test, has also been shown to accurately detect sports-related concussion in a sideline setting, when used in conjunction with the Staggered Uneven Number (SUN) test. Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE , lead the NYU Langone Health team that developed both the MULES and SUN tests. They recently partnered with Marc J. Balcer, MS, a software developer and Dr. Balcer’s brother, to create a mobile version of the tests. The is optimized for use on a tablet device, allowing for greater flexibility in onsite testing. “Because it is portable, the MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease, perhaps even remotely from the office setting,” says Dr. Balcer. “The MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease.” Sideline Concussion Analysis MULES and SUN were developed in partnership with NYU Langone’s , where Drs. Balcer and Galetta have been involved in decades-long research on the use of rapid number naming , rapid picture naming and laboratory-based eye tracking in the diagnosis and sideline assessment of sports-related concussion “Most studies that assess neurologic function have concentrated on walking and maybe cognition, despite the enormous importance of vision,” explains Dr. Galetta. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” MULES reflects 80 years of literature on RAN tests that assess vision and cognitive performance; the newer SUN test also captures eye movement, concentration, and visual processing. “MULES and SUN are based on a long continuum of research into the biological underpinnings of neurologic injury,” Dr. Galetta says. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” Building and Testing a Mobile Option Dr. Balcer remarks that invention comes naturally to her and her brother, Mark – their father, “Mick,” was a civil engineer. “In addition to portability for clinical assessment, we wanted to create a mobile testing option that would provide widespread access for research, the potential for data sharing, and integration into electronic medical records,” she says. “We also wanted it to be free to anyone. Grateful patients have started a fund to make this possible.” A new study Journal of the Neurological Sciences compares the digital version of the MULES and SUN tests in the MICK app with the current paper versions. The MICK app format demonstrated excellent agreement of time scores with paper-pencil testing among adult volunteers. Additionally, the team has completed pilot testing with Yeshiva University, and the Michigan State University and Penn State University football teams are testing the app to compare baseline and sideline data. Broadening Applications Beyond concussion, the team is using the MULES and SUN tests to aid in detection of other neurologic disorders. “We’ve found that the MULES test in particular can separate patients from controls who have multiple sclerosis, , and more recently those who have mild cognitive impairment related to Alzheimer’s disease versus those with normal aging,” says Dr. Balcer. The military has shown interest in using the MICK app for traumatic brain injury . Navy Seals who are now NYU Grossman School of Medicine students will be working with the team to study the viability of the technology in the field. MULES has also been tested in cohorts of post-call residents and COVID-19 survivors “We have seen that picture naming differentiates people who’ve had COVID with those who haven’t had COVID,” Dr. Balcer notes. “This may reflect cognitive impairment, in part.” “We’re excited about the many prospects ahead for this application,” Dr. Galetta says. “As neuro-ophthalmologists, we try to fill the gap between where the optic nerve begins and how it projects to the brain. It is important that physicians understand how visual dysfunction may be indicative of neurologic disease.” Laura J. Balcer, MD Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE, is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology. She specializes in evaluating and treating patients with visual symptoms related to disorders of the optic nerve and brain, including multiple sclerosis, concussion, and other neurologic conditions. Her research focuses on development of clinical outcome measures for vision in neurologic disease. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Advanced imaging provides mounting evidence for updating MS diagnostic criteria. PHOTO: Science Source Current international diagnostic criteria for multiple sclerosis (MS) do not include the optic nerve as an imaging lesion site, despite the high prevalence of acute optic neuritis (ON) among early MS patients. Since the latest evaluation of these criteria in 2017, neuro-ophthalmologists , have been adding to the evidence for incorporation of the optic nerve into MS diagnostics. “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation. However, research that patients who present with spinal cord or brainstem lesions on MRI typically progress to MS, left people with ON at a disadvantage. Their lesions in the optic nerve weren’t counted,” Dr. Galetta says. Studies have suggested that inter-eye differences in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, as measured by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), optimize identification of people with a history of ON “Imaging the optic nerve with OCT is more sensitive for indicating there’s been a demyelinating event,” Dr. Balcer says. “In a younger person, there are a limited number of entities besides MS that could cause thinning of the axonal layer.” “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation.” Building the Case for Inclusion foundational study in 2017 , Dr. Balcer and colleagues established the validity of low-contrast letter acuity (LCLA) as a visual performance outcome measure for MS over high-contrast visual acuity, which has been used for decades. Deficits in LCLA and vision-specific quality of life are found many years after an episode of acute ON, even when high-contrast visual acuity has recovered. Several further studies have aided in determining optimal thresholds for inter-eye differences in retinal layer thickness that are most predictive of a unilateral optic nerve lesion. single-center analysis comparing healthy volunteers to people with MS, and then in a multicenter study with the International MS Visual System Consortium , the researchers confirmed inter-eye differences of 5μm for the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL) and 4μm for the macular ganglion cell inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) as robust thresholds. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that. It turned out to be an even stronger structure/function coordination than we had thought,” Dr. Balcer says. Evaluating Long-Term Outcomes The next step was to demonstrate that early diagnosis of ON and initiation of MS treatment would slow disease progression. The researchers used a cohort from MSBase , an international online registry containing about 80,000 patient records. “The MSBase study is a longer study – 5 years – and people tended not to exit once they were in it,” Dr. Galetta notes. “We were able to look at disability, both visually and that initial treatment trials of the clinically isolated syndrome didn’t include.” In the MSBase cohort, early treatment after ON diagnosis was associated with better long-term visual and neurological outcomes compared to no treatment. The results support early treatment for patients presenting with ON as the first manifestation of MS. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that.” Assessing Diagnostic Accuracy In new research soon to be published, a team including Dr. Balcer, Dr. Galetta and Rachel Kenney, PhD, a former NYU Langone Health neuro-ophthalmology fellow, demonstrate that a composite score incorporating visual function tests such as LCLA, combined with SD-OCT measurements, improves the ability to identify patients with MS. The research team includes colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Lab and from several partnering institutions. The researchers measured pRNFL and GCIPL thicknesses on SD-OCT devices and developed a composite score, combining OCT and other visual measures. They compared this score with individual measurements to determine the best model, and used support vector machine analysis to confirm that the model improved the diagnostic capability of OCT. The study provides class III evidence that SD-OCT can accurately distinguish people with MS from others and those with a history of unilateral ON. Combined with the MSBase evidence for improved outcomes, the team is hoping the findings are enough to get ON added to the MS criteria in the next evaluation. “Vision has always been last to the table. We’ve had to prove everything beyond a reasonable doubt. It’s been really gratifying to be able to present such strong evidence,” Dr. Galetta says. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening A new program for low-income immigrant families tests bringing ENT care to patients. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In the U.S., 5 out of every 1,000 children experience hearing loss, which can affect quality of life, language acquisition, and learning. Even mild hearing loss can cause a child to miss as much as 50 percent of content covered in a classroom setting. Yet, hearing loss in children often goes unrecognized, particularly in low-income immigrant families who may come from countries where early hearing screening is not mandated. To test the theory that improving community access to hearing screenings can help to close the gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the NYU Langone Health have launched the Hearing Loss Awareness and Screening Program for Low-Income Immigrant Families. This clinical and research partnership is introducing screenings into nontraditional settings such as community centers and faith-based organizations. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss,” says J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD , the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss.” Defining Screening Best Practices Because hearing is so closely tied with learning and social adaptation, it is critical to identify hearing loss early, says Moses Mansu, DrPH , the program’s director. In the U.S., most babies are screened at birth, but this is not true in other countries, he adds. “If you’re able to intervene early, you have an opportunity to manage the problem. It is less likely to affect children socially.” The program will educate parents in low-income immigrant communities about hearing loss and how it may present in children, and will connect children with treatment to reduce adverse outcomes. If a family lacks insurance for their child, the program will help them to enroll in free state services. Leveraging Community Engagement The three-year pilot, supported