come to medical attention because they are unaware of their A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick says. “While many patients with A-fib do not report symptoms, some experience nonspecific symptoms, such as palpitation, dyspnea, or fatigue.” Silence Is Not Always Golden recent study published in the offered a first-time exploration of A-fib symptom perception, its impact on quality of life, and its relation to treatment strategies in older adults. The researchers found that patients aged 65 to 74 years reported more cardiac symptoms, and A-fib had a more significant impact on their quality of life compared to the older age groups. Adults aged 85 years and older were more likely to report no symptoms, and most of the reported symptoms were non–cardiac specific, including fatigue and light-headedness. “This study is key in furthering our understanding of A-fib symptoms across age groups and is unique in its inclusion of adults over 85 years of age,” Dr. Skolnick explains. Based on these findings, the researchers recommended that clinicians adopt a more patient-centered approach to managing individuals with A-fib who present with a range of non–cardiac-specific symptoms, and that management with rate or rhythm control needs to be tailored to the individual patient in a holistic manner. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” Dr. Nina Blachman “The population is aging, and we expect to see more patients with atrial fibrillation in the coming years,” says Dr. Blachman. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” On the Horizon: Digital Health Technologies As a first step, Dr. Skolnick, together with , are using novel cardiovascular digital health tools to identify undiagnosed A-fib in older adults. “Wearable devices, which contain optical photoplethysmography-based sensors and software algorithms may facilitate identifying older adults with undiagnosed A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick explains. In addition, the Cardiovascular Digital Health Laboratory , also led by Dr. Dodson, is planning and conducting clinical trials evaluating innovative digital solutions to improve population health through hypertension management, medication adherence, and arrhythmia monitoring. The team plans to scale remote cardiovascular health monitoring for patients, making it applicable to other projects in the future. Dr. Dodson notes that the ultimate goal of the laboratory is to enable knowledge sharing among physicians and researchers to help facilitate partnerships on future studies and improve patient care. Cardiology, Echocardiography Adam H. Skolnick, MD, is a master clinician educator and an associate professor of medicine. His research focuses on transesophageal echocardiography, aortic stenosis, acute coronary syndromes, and geriatric cardiology. Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE, is an assistant professor of medicine, and director of the NYU Geriatric Medicine Fellowship Program. Her research focuses on geriatrics education and workforce issues, and she and Dr. Dodson are co-creators of the GeriKit app for geriatric assessment Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Surg Endo . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80. . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. There is no difference in rates of sepsis, readmission, or return to OR between patients younger than 65 and those 65 and older. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80, according to a recent publication in Surgical Endoscopy . The study, one of the largest to evaluate elective PEH repair in recent years, supports a shift from watchful waiting to operative repair for patients age 65 or older with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic PEHs. “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery,” says , first author on the study and surgical director of the Assessing Outcomes by Age Utilizing data from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, Dr. Damani and colleagues identified over 12,000 patients who underwent elective PEH repair between 2015 and 2017, including 5,476 patients age 65 or older. A watchful waiting approach for patients in this age group was originally supported by a Markov Monte Carlo decision model , which indicated that elective repair would only shift to being the optimal treatment if the mortality rate for surgery dropped to 0.5 percent or below. “This data from 20 years ago continues to drive patient referrals for elective surgery of paraesophageal hernias today,” says Dr. Damani. “Watchful waiting can lead to a significant increase in hernia size, making surgery more technically challenging, or can lead to an acute volvulus requiring an emergency operation with higher morbidity.” “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery.” With results from the new study suggesting that this threshold has been reached, Dr. Damani hopes more referring specialists will consider elective repair for elderly patients. “To put in perspective how far we have come, mortality for elective paraesophageal hernia repair falls between the mortality of gallbladder surgery, which is 0.3 percent, and that of colon resection, which is 0.9 percent,” says Dr. Damani. An Uncomplicated Recovery Dr. Damani also emphasizes that age does not impede the relatively quick and smooth recovery following minimally invasive PEH repair. For patients age 65 or older, no differences in return to OR or readmission were noted in the study, and length of stay only increased by a median of 0.5 days. “At our center, we have not needed to send a single patient in the last three years to a rehab facility because of this operation,” says Dr. Damani. NYU Langone Health is a high volume site for hiatal hernia repair, having performed 110 procedures over the last two years alone, Dr. Damani notes. VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Virtual reality (VR) is becoming an important tool in the field of neurosurgery, with applications to medical training and education, as well as in surgical planning and guidance. At NYU Langone Health, a team of , is piloting VR technology for preoperative planning of superficial temporal artery (STA)–to–middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass. “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution.” “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution,” Dr. Nossek says. “These models have been used in STA-MCA bypass planning to achieve the minimum necessary craniotomy size for a precise bypass localization.” Precise Planning The complexity and intricate nature of STA-MCA bypass warrants precise preoperative planning to identify the appropriate STA donor and MCA recipient, Dr. Nossek explains. “We have to find the optimal location and size of the craniotomy to ensure a high patency rate, as well as low rates of surgical morbidity and mortality.” In contrast to conventional imaging, the VR technology renders 360-degree models of patient-specific anatomy from volumetric imaging, providing enhanced visualization of the spatial relationship within the targeted surgical anatomy and allowing the surgeon to view the patient’s anatomy in high resolution from any vantage point. Efficient Procedures Dr. Nossek and his team recently reported their early experience using the VR-based technology for preoperative planning of STA-MCA bypass. Caleb Rutledge, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of cranial and vascular neurosurgery at , is a co-author on the study. From August 2020 to February 2022, 30 patients undergoing STA-MCA bypass were enrolled into two groups. In one group, a VR-based surgical planning platform was used to preoperatively plan the procedure. In the control group, the surgeon used conventional preoperative planning techniques. “The VR platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” “The VR platform enabled the selection of the ideal vessel candidates for anastomosis and localization of the center of the craniotomy with respect to the anastomosis site,” Dr. Nossek says. “The platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” Blueprint for the Future While these data are preliminary, Dr. Nossek and Dr. Rutledge are excited about the future of the technology and its many potential benefits, including the ability to be used as a tool for trainees to learn the surgical techniques. “For recipient vessel selection, the VR system facilitated the selection of the best potential donor and recipient, which might improve patency in larger-scale studies,” Dr. Nossek says. “From an educational perspective, it may be a useful tool for trainees to understand the vascular anatomy and relationships between potential donors and potential recipients.” Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis Surface EMG showing co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. A Multi-Tiered Approach Unmasks an Elusive Disorder A woman in her 60s was referred to Kiril Kiprovski, MD , a clinical associate professor of neurology, with severe stiffness and spasticity in her lower extremities. Her symptoms had first appeared 6 years earlier, she reported, and all treatments had been ineffective. A spine surgeon had diagnosed the patient with spinal stenosis and performed two decompression surgeries. Later, an orthopedic surgeon had performed tendon lengthening and decompression of the peroneal nerve in the left leg. Still, the woman remained unable to walk more than a few steps without stumbling. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness. She’s excited about being able to do more.” At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Kripovski inspected the patient’s MRIs and saw no significant compression of the spinal cord. A physical exam, however, led the neurologist to suspect stiff-person syndrome (SPS)— a rare, progressive autoimmune disorder that affects 1 to 2 out of every million people The symptoms of SPS arise from the disruption of central nervous system pathways that normally inhibit muscle contractions. “Instead of the agonist muscle contracting and the antagonist relaxing, both muscles are activated at the same time,” Dr. Kiprovski explains. Although the syndrome’s etiology is uncertain, it is usually accompanied by elevated levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies. However, anti-GAD antibodies can also be associated with autoimmune diabetes mellitus. To confirm his clinical impression, Dr. Kripovski ordered bloodwork and performed surface electromyography, both of which showed concerning signs of SPS. After completing the diagnosis, he prescribed clonazepam, a standard treatment. Within weeks, the woman’s mobility increased significantly. In hopes of improving it further, she was recently started on intravenous immunoglobulin, which has been shown to reduce symptoms in some patients. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness,” Dr. Kiprovski says. “She’s excited about being able to do more. Her whole family’s excited about it. And, of course, I’m excited, too.” Ruling Out a Spinal Etiology Preoperative MRIs of the patient’s cervical spine. Because the signs and symptoms of stiff-person syndrome (SPS) overlap with those of several other disorders, diagnosis requires multiple steps. The first is a detailed medical history and physical exam. Examination of pre- and postoperative imaging of the patient’s cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine revealed nothing that would explain the severe impairments to her gait. Testing for Antibodies Results from the patient’s bloodwork. Between 70 to 80 percent of people with SPS have glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies, so the patient’s extremely high levels were suggestive of the disorder. Because such antibodies are also associated with several other autoimmune disorders, however, their presence alone was insufficient for a diagnosis. There is no single test that is dispositive for SPS. Scanning for Telltale Muscle Contractions Readings from the patient’s needle EMG tests. During ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion, the patient’s electromyography (EMG) showed co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. Combined with her elevated anti-GAD antibody levels, this finding confirmed the diagnosis. Neuromuscular Medicine, Neurology Kiril Kiprovski, MD, is a clinical associate professor of neurology and director of the Division of Neuromuscular Medicine. Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Research supports that introducing ambulatory services in the U.S. would benefit patients and caregivers. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care New research explores if personal amplification devices improve the quality of patient care and patient experience. Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Diabetes risk may be modifiable through healthy lifestyle habits , and interventions for adults with prediabetes have been shown to be effective. Still, few individuals aged 65 years and older at risk for type 2 diabetes participate in evidence-based programs to reduce their risk. One barrier may be the in-person model for delivering diabetes prevention care, according to geriatric specialists at NYU Langone Health. They are leading an ongoing trial, the BRInging the Diabetes Prevention Program to GEriatric Populations (BRIDGE) study, to assess an alternative, telehealth-based Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) tailored for older adults with prediabetes. “As of 2018, Medicare reimburses for provision of a CDC-approved diabetes prevention program curriculum delivered in-person,” says Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH , a research assistant professor of medicine. “However, in-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “In-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “Offering an online version could be an innovative way to extend the reach of the DPPs to low-income seniors and other marginalized groups,” says . “Additionally, the online format could reduce the cost for implementing and administering the program.” While some online DPPs are available, many are cost-prohibitive and not tailored to the unique needs of older adults. The BRIDGE Study In addition to comparing the effectiveness of two different strategies for delivering a tailored DPP to older adults with prediabetes, the BRIDGE study is also examining the feasibility of delivering either approach as a primary care integrated program. NYU Langone researchers are recruiting patients and randomizing them to a 12-month DPP either delivered via videoconferencing or traditional, in-person programming. Participants are men and women with prediabetes who are 65 years and older and have a body mass index (BMI) within the overweight or obesity range. The primary outcomes are six-month weight loss (effectiveness) and program participation (feasibility). Based on data from a preliminary pilot study , videoconferencing appears to be a feasible and acceptable way to administer a DPP to older adults, says Dr. Chodosh. “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change…over the 6-week intervention period.” “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change of 2.9 percent at a rate of 0.2 to 0.5 kilograms per week over the 6-week intervention period.” Findings of this pilot , led by nutritional epidemiologist Jeannette M. Beasley, PhD, MPH , helped the team to adapt the DPP to meet the individual needs of older adults with prediabetes, including modifications for those with reduced hearing and visual acuity. In the future, the team believes the results of BRIDGE could be used to inform best practices that could potentially reach more than 26 million older adults with prediabetes in hospital, community-based, and rural settings. Informing Policy and Best Practices During the COVID-19 pandemic, some virtual preventive care services were covered by Medicare. Dr. Johnston hopes that positive results from BRIDGE will encourage policymakers to enact permanent reimbursement for virtual DPP services. “Our adapted care model is in keeping with the current CDC-approved DPP curriculum, but it is enhanced for older adults,” Dr. Johnston explains. “We hope this research will inform best practices for the delivery of an engaging and effective program to reduce diabetes risk that is accessible to older adults.” Diabetes, Endocrinology, Nutrition Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH, RDN, is a dietitian, certified diabetes care and education specialist, and research assistant professor of medicine. Her research focuses on nutrition and aging, specifically the development of programs to help healthcare providers optimize the delivery of nutrition and preventive care among older adults. We offer care at three locations in Manhattan. 646-754-7098 Executive physicals at NYU Langone provide convenient annual health examinations tailored to each executive’s medical needs. We offer the highest-quality care to assure privacy and comfort, with limited disruption to your busy schedule. An executive physical may be obtained at one of the following conveniently located facilities in NYU Langone’s network: , in the Financial District; and the , both in Midtown. Our concierge team also coordinates your itinerary at the selected location and sends you an electronic notification of the exam date, location and appointment instruction. We offer three packages, which are discussed with you in detail when speaking with our concierge team. On the day of your exam, when you arrive at your selected appointment location, you are greeted by our executive physical program staff. For your convenience, our on-site concierge escorts you through the facility throughout your visit. You meet with NYU Langone’s board-certified physicians, who perform a comprehensive medical history and physical exam. After your visit, you connect directly with your doctor to discuss your results. At that time, your doctor may refer you for additional testing or appointments. Our concierge team will assist with coordinating any additional appointments. With our integrated electronic medical record system, you can also send secure messages to your doctor, access your personalized medical record, and refill prescriptions To learn more about executive physicals at NYU Langone, please call 646-754-7098. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula Postnatal transthoracic echocardiogram shows a fistula between the base of the LV and CS with associated dilation of the CS, right atrium, and right ventricle. A Rare Congenital Heart Defect Congenital left ventricle (LV) to coronary sinus (CS) fistula is a rare entity that can occur either in isolation or in conjunction with other heart defects. With only six prior case reports in the literature, a carefully planned intervention leveraging advanced catheter techniques and intraprocedural imaging is needed to ensure optimal outcomes. In September 2019, when a young male infant was delivered at term to a 34-year mother, cardiac imaging revealed the congenital LV to CS fistula. In addition to the shunt from the fistula, there was another problem. “The baseline electrocardiogram findings were notable for a Wolff-Parkinson-White pattern,” explains , the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology at NYU Langone Health. “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” Postnatally, refractory supraventricular tachycardia consistent with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome required therapy with several anti-arrhythmic drugs. A Very Challenging Procedure After discussions among the care team, it was apparent that surgical intervention posed unacceptable risk, as the high-pressure thin-wall fistulous connection located deep and posteriorly behind the heart would be nearly impossible to access surgically. “We all agreed that a percutaneous approach would be preferable,” notes interventional cardiologist Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory . When signs of high-volume heart failure emerged, Dr. Argilla and his partner, pediatric interventional cardiologist , made the decision to intervene early, but the risks were high. The challenge with infants is their small vessels and heart chambers, which limits the size and manipulation of catheters, adds Dr. Argilla. For this procedure, there was a need to avoid implanting a device that would obstruct future routes to the accessory pathway during a subsequent electrophysiology ablation, performed by Dr. Cecchin. The end result was a marathon catheterization, which involved the surgical team attempting three different approaches to closing the fistula before successfully implanting the device. A Successful Recovery Remarkably, following the successful catheter device closure of the LV to CS fistula on day 12 of life, the patient later underwent successful ablation of the accessory pathway. “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result,” says Dr. Argilla, “Two years later, when we met Max again, he presented as a healthy and energetic toddler.” “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result.” Intracardiac Anatomy Confirmed on MRI Cardiac imaging shows the presence of a fistula from the base of the LV to the right atrium via the CS with an approximately 5:1 shunt. The patient underwent electrophysiologic and cardiac catheterization studies on day 4 of life. The transesophageal electrophysiology study showed a moderate risk accessory pathway with the shortest pre-excited RR interval of 260 ms, antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathway of 270 ms, and no inducible atrial fibrillation. Angiography showed an LV to CS fistula. Successful Catheter Device Closure An X-ray showing placement of the 8 mm Amplatzer Vascular Plug II device. The patient underwent device occlusion of the fistulous connection of the CS diverticulum to the LV on day of life 12. Each time a catheter or sheath was advanced across the CS orifice of the fistula, evidence of pre-excitation on the cardiac monitor ECG disappeared. Post-procedure transthoracic echocardiogram showed that the device was well positioned and there was no residual shunt. Successful Radiofrequency Ablation of the Accessory Pathway Electrocardiogram showing delta wave mapping. The patient was noted to have an accessory pathway in the CS diverticulum. Delta wave mapping was performed primarily during sinus rhythm.The earliest atrial electrogram was noted at -26 msec. Successful radiofrequency ablation of the accessory pathway was performed. Michael Argilla, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and director of the Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory. His research interests include congenital heart defects in children and adults. Frank Cecchin, MD, is the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, a professor of medicine, and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology. His research interests include abnormal arrhythmias and congenital heart defects in children. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions On March 4-6, 2023, NYU Langone Heart’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2023 Scientific Sessions in New Orleans Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see the complete list of NYU Langone presenters and events Saturday, March 4 Examining Risk Factors Related to Cardiac Rehabilitation Cessation Among Heart Transplant Recipients Session 1247 : Prevention & Health Promotion – Cardiac Rehabilitation 2 NYU Langone Authors , Medical Director, Heart Transplant Program; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10:45–11:30 am Sunday, March 5 Building Electronic Tools To Enhance And Reinforce Cardiovascular Recommendations for Heart Failure (BETTER CARE-HF): A Pragmatic, Cluster-randomized Trial Comparing Two Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support Tools Session 406 : Late Breaking Clinical Trials III NYU Langone Author , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 9:45–9:55 am Respective & Combined Contributions of Left & Right Ventricular Function for the Development of Heart Failure Symptoms & Relevant Clinical Outcomes: A Study of 10,082 Patients from the CIROC Registry Session 1067 : A Look Ahead – Multimodality Imaging for Prognosis Juan Gaztanaga, MD , Director, Advanced Cardiac Imaging, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island 4:00–4:10 pm Monday, March 6 Findings from The American Heart Association Cardiometabolic Health Strategically Focused Research Network Session 1739 : Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease Michael S. Garshick, MD , Assistant Professor, Director of the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, NYU Langone What Do the Cardiogenic Shock Trials Tell Us and How Close Are We to Creating Guidelines in Management? Session 751 : Cardiogenic Shock: Advances, Opportunities, & Controversies , Director, Interventional Cardiology, Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, NYU Langone : 1:34–1:42 pm Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery To determine the risk for heart attack or death following major surgery, cardiac tests are frequently recommended, causing delays and driving up healthcare costs. Now, investigators at NYU Langone Health report that patients’ existing chest CT scans, captured months earlier and for unrelated reasons, can be used to estimate these risks. In their study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology, the researchers report that patients with a greater buildup of calcified plaque as visualized by CT have a higher chance of developing major adverse cardiac events (MACE) following several kinds of surgeries. Additionally, the team explored whether physicians who had no formal training in imaging could identify coronary calcium well enough on these preexisting tests to make accurate predictions and potentially skip additional cardiac testing. “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice.” Robert M. Donnino, MD “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice,” says study co-senior author and cardiologist Using Existing Imaging to Predict Risk For the study, the researchers accessed data from the electronic health record of 2,650 men and women age 45 and older who had surgery unrelated to the heart between January 2016 and September 2020 at NYU Langone inpatient locations. All the patients whose records were used also had a general CT scan of their chests no more than a year before their surgical operations. Those with death or heart attack during the hospitalization for surgery were then identified. Next, four members of the team who had no formal training in CT interpretation completed a 90-minute training session in which they learned to estimate coronary calcium severity from the imaging. In the pragmatic scoring system used, plaque buildup in each of the three major coronary arteries was rated on a three-point scale ranging from “absent” to “severe.” The scores were then combined to a final grade ranging from 0 to 9. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care.” According to the results, patients with scores from 0 to 2 had a less than 4 percent risk of MACE; those with scores from 3 to 5 had an 8 percent risk; and those with scores from 6 to 9 had a 13 percent risk. In addition, the calcium estimates were consistent among the physicians, suggesting that the rating system was reliable. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care,” says study co-senior author and interventional cardiologist . “Future studies will need to go beyond prediction to develop new strategies to prevent and treat adverse cardiac events after surgery.” Cardiology, Echocardiography, Cardiac Imaging Robert M. Donnino, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests focus on multi-modality cardiac imaging and the application of cardiac imaging to clinical care. Interventional Cardiology, Cardiology Nathaniel R. Smilowitz, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests include myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, MINOCA, and microvascular disease. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO, is a clinician and trial director with a focus on diabetes and lipid disorders. Here, she discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia disorders—conditions with low or absent lipid levels, which impair the normal absorption and transport of fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Working with Mahmood Hussain, PhD, Dr. Bredefeld has helped to create a classification system for these disorders, and advocates for awareness and research through the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. Your lipid disorders research includes low lipid conditions—less recognized than hyperlipidemia, which leads to coronary artery disease. Describe these less common disorders. Dr. Bredefeld: Low-lipid disorders are collectively recognized as familial hypobetalipoproteinemia. They are monogenic, with a number of known genetic mutations that determine the phenotype and disease progression. Recently, Dr. Hussain and I co-authored a consensus guidance that classifies these disorders into two categories. Class II disorders are due to enhanced catabolism of lipoproteins and are typically asymptomatic; in fact, these mutations can be beneficial in preventing cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, class I conditions—including abetalipoproteinemia, hypobetalipoproteinemia, and chylomicron retention disease—are severe. They inhibit the assembly and secretion of lipoproteins, so lipids become trapped in the liver and intestine leading to symptoms of steatosis and fat malabsorption. Without fat-soluble vitamins reaching target tissues, patients often suffer from blindness, peripheral neuropathy, and hemorrhage. Advancing Diagnosis, Treatment and Research How are low-lipid disorders diagnosed and treated in children or adults? These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey. Parents may notice symptoms of fat malabsorption—their babies do better when they restrict fats, such as in breast milk. A pediatric gastroenterologist might order a workup for malabsorption. If a lipid panel is obtained during this evaluation, it clinches the diagnosis. Genetic testing can confirm the diagnosis. Patients require lifelong management with megadoses of fat-soluble vitamins. Additionally, there are important dietary concerns; fats must be restricted to just five—the amount in one large egg—to 15 grams per day. “These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey.” Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO You helped launch the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. What is the foundation doing to advance understanding of these disorders? First and foremost, we are engaged in advocacy to increase awareness. There is a general lack of understanding regarding the management of these disorders, particularly among insurance companies. They can be reluctant to cover the cost of these “vitamins”—which can average $800 per month out of pocket—because they’re not seen as the critical treatments they are. Insurers may not understand that a baby could hemorrhage, or that an adult patient could develop severe neuropathy or blindness. We have provided letters of medical support for physicians to submit to insurers. Dr. Hussain, the foundation’s president, is a basic researcher while I’m on the clinical side. We integrate the two and bring patients, caregivers, physicians and researchers together to meet an unmet clinical need for these rare disorders. We have assembled an international forum across seven countries to create an expert consensus around the diagnosis and management of hypobetalipoproteinemia. Are you also involved with research on the other side of lipid disorders, hyperlipidemia? Yes. Some of the research in hypolipidemia is informing our understanding of how to manage hyperlipidemia. Several of the genes implicated in class II hypolipidemia have inspired currently available treatments for disorders on the opposite side of the spectrum, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, but also for patients with coronary artery disease to help reduce their risk of cardiac events. I am the principal investigator for a clinical trial investigating ANPTL3 monoclonal antibody for severe hypertriglyceridemia, a common lipid condition—another example of how research in rarer disorders can benefit the larger patient population. Transferring Insights to More Common Conditions Why do you feel it’s so important to support research and treatment of these rare diseases? As I mentioned, understanding low lipids can directly inform treatment advances for hyperlipidemia, which is highly prevalent. In addition, for patients impacted by hypolipidemia, we’re learning more about the mechanisms of disease and potential treatment pathways. Through the foundation, we’re developing a biobank and patient registry to understand the natural history of these disorders. Another initiative is to discover novel vectors that could more efficiently deliver high-dose vitamins to patients with class I hypolipidemias. These studies could also help inform treatment of other, more commonly seen malabsorption disorders. Cindy Bredefeld, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and the director of clinical trials within the Division of Endocrinology. Her clinical focus is the diagnosis and management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, as well as lipid disorders. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation Marlena Habal, MD Patients sensitized to circulating human leukocyte antigen (HLA) in need of a heart transplant face prolonged wait times, an elevated risk of dying while waiting, and they may not be listed at all , a heart failure specialist in NYU Langone Health’s , is engaged in translational research to understand the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients. Her research group has developed a protocol to kill bone marrow plasma cells, including those that secrete HLA-specific IgG antibodies in sensitized patients. The has successfully performed one heart transplant using this protocol, and a patient awaiting a lung transplant will begin treatment in a few weeks. The Demand for Desensitization Dr. Habal, your work is focused primarily on desensitizing heart transplant patients. Is the prevalence of HLA sensitization increasing in these patients? If so, what are the reasons? Dr. Habal: When a heart failure patient is placed on the organ donor list, they may have been rejected many times before at various sites. Our goal is to see if we can get them ready for transplant by treating them with therapies that target the cells making the antibodies that can attack the donor organ. Our research is focused on providing a cellular description of what is happening. “[We are] building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient.” The challenge is these patients are becoming more complex. Many of them have had previous surgeries, which come with blood transfusions. This includes mechanical circulatory support, most commonly left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) Millennials are the first group of adults that have survived complex congenital heart disease and received homografts for repair. That foreign tissue has often been there for 20 or 30 years causing extremely high levels of these antibodies—it’s rare that we can treat