other about a sternotomy scar. That seemed to interest them more than the surgery itself.” Based on this feedback, the ACHD team built a scar initiative with dermatology. Three months after an ACHD surgery, patients are now referred for specialty treatment to minimize scarring. Creating Peer Community Dr. Halpern’s team is considering strategies for offering peer-to-peer matching for ACHD patients. The goal is to introduce patients with a specific congenital heart defect—tetralogy of Fallot or single ventricle with Fontan palliation, for example—to each another. “A lot of patients live in silo. It’s unbelievable how so many patients are eager to speak to people with the same condition.” The idea evolved out of NYU Langone Health’s collaboration with the Adult Congenital Heart Association. “That group includes MDs and volunteers who themselves have CHD,” Dr. Halpern says. Looking forward, Dr. Halpern envisions the demand for comprehensive support services within the ACHD community—and how innovative programs can offer those services—will continue to take new directions. “ACHD patients are perhaps among the most clinically challenging patients that require life-long follow up. We are committed to accompanying them during their journey,” Dr. Halpern says. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Multidisciplinary pelvic floor expertise guides successful restoration of rectal-vaginal structures. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis A complex case involving atypical uterine presentation reveals the aggressive nature and symptomatology of leiomyomas. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Providers advocate that rising demand warrants more individualized counseling and lowering barriers to care. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing Most women younger than 38 when their eggs were frozen, or who thawed at least 20 eggs, achieved live births. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation Catheter ablation has long been recognized as an effective treatment for a wide variety of cardiac arrhythmias, but the therapy runs a risk of damage to surrounding tissues. Pulsed field ablation (PFA) is emerging as a novel, non-thermal energy source that may offer a safer alternative to conventional catheter ablation technologies. PFA delivers ultrashort, high-voltage pulses to create lesions on targeted tissue. This mechanism is also known as electroporation because it causes temporary pore-like openings in cell walls, leading to death by apoptosis. The frequency of the pulses can be adjusted to target specific proteins within cell membrane, leaving other types of tissue unharmed. “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” “With traditional energy sources, we spend much of our time trying to avoid collateral damage to the nerves, blood vessels, lungs, or esophagus,” says . “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” Investigating PFA for Atrial Fibrillation Previously used in oncology to destroy specific types of tumors or to increase tumor permeability to chemotherapy drugs, PFA has recently been adapted for catheter ablation by a number of manufacturers. European regulators approved the first such device in January 2021, but the technology remains investigational in the U.S. NYU Langone is currently conducting clinical trials of three different PFA cardiac ablation devices in patients with atrial fibrillation. “There are many ways to deliver this energy,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “We’re trying to find out the best way to do it.” Numerous questions about the new technology remain, including how durable are the lesions that PFA produces, the safety compared with conventional counterparts, and which of the available catheters is optimal for a given application, such as paroxysmal versus persistent atrial fibrillation. Across the three trials testing devices developed by Medtronic, Farapulse, and Biosense Webster, primary outcomes include primary adverse events such as atrial-esophageal fistula and cardiac tamponade/perforation within 7 days, and freedom from documented atrial arrhythmia, atrial tachycardia, or atrial flutter for up to one year. Secondary outcomes include the number of patients who achieve acute procedural success, defined as confirmation of entrance block in targeted atrial pulmonary veins after adenosine/isoproterenol challenge, and change in quality of life after ablation. Ripple Effect Across Cardiac Ablation If the early results from the PFA trials hold up, Dr. Chinitz expects the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt the devices. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in transformative treatments. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically.” “Many feel that PFA will replace radiofrequency and cryoablation as the premier energy source for cardiac ablation,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Eventually, it could be adapted beyond atrial fibrillation to other arrhythmias, including those involving the ventricles. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically,” Dr. Chinitz says. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy Specializing in obstetric care for transgender patients, , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses best practices for inclusive care, the need for education and studies that capture the diverse concerns of patients, and initiatives he and his team are pursuing to reduce the inequities experienced by the transgender and gender-diverse community. Providing Affirming Care for All Transgender, nonbinary, and gender-expansive people often face discrimination in healthcare settings. What are some important considerations for obstetric care? The language and culture around pregnancy is highly gendered, and obstetric care largely caters to cisgender women. Fortunately, there has been growing awareness about the importance of providing care for all people. That means recognizing that people with diverse gender identities have pregnancies and give birth. “Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care.” Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care. We want to affirm people’s identities during the entire pregnancy—from prenatal care, to delivery, to postpartum. What elements are important when planning for pregnancy? Some people with reproductive potential are taking testosterone. This important medication can have a remarkably positive impact on a person’s quality of life. Unfortunately, testosterone cannot be used during pregnancy. Patients should stop taking testosterone before pregnancy or as soon as they find out they are pregnant. While the idea of stopping hormone therapy and experiencing pregnancy with all its gendered connotations can be difficult, we help our patients embrace pregnancy while affirming their unique identities. Most of the care during pregnancy for transgender and gender-expansive patients is the same as for cisgender patients. Some of the unique elements of care include creating a dialog around talking about pregnancy that affirms someone’s unique identity, screening for depression, building an individualized birth plan, and ensuring a smooth transition to a team of affirming gynecologists and primary care doctors once pregnancy is over. New Frontiers in Medical Education You’ve been involved in several educational initiatives designed to improve knowledge on the provision of health services to transgender and gender-expansive patients. How do you see education and training advancing? Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care. As public awareness increases and more programs prioritize education around LGBTIA+ care, I hope that transgender and gender-expansive people will find affirming doctors and feel comfortable seeking care. “Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care.” I recently completed my term on the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Workforce committee. We published a statement that affirmed the society’s commitment to excellence in obstetric care, research, and education for people with diverse sexual and gender identities. In collaboration with the society, I’m currently working on a follow-up publication. I’m hopeful that this paper will provide more practical guidance on how clinicians can employ gender-inclusive practices in obstetrics and maternal–fetal medicine. Some people have concerns about erasing women from pregnancy. To be clear, I want to advocate for an inclusive approach that ensures that all people—cisgender women, transgender men, and everyone with birthing potential—are included. The expansion of inclusive practices does not take away from the need to address sexism and other challenges that cisgender women face. We need to remember that people with diverse gender identities and birthing potential face sexism, too. Pursuing Inclusive Research What current issues in research are you focused on addressing? People with diverse gender identities have been historically excluded from research. While professional societies recommend the use of inclusive language in research, fewer than half of obstetrics and gynecology journals require gender-inclusive research practices in their author submission guidelines. There is also a lack of data about gender-inclusive research practices in obstetrics and gynecology. I’m very interested in how we can employ more inclusive research practices and promote their use. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access As the availability of next-generation sequencing (NGS) becomes increasingly critical to the treatment of gynecologic cancers, persistent underutilization and inequitable access to genetic testing remain significant barriers to care for many patient populations. , director of gynecologic oncology research and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office , discusses the specific challenges of universal access to genetic testing and tumor sequencing in these cancers, and how these barriers can be overcome to increase access to the latest clinical trials and treatment options. Genetic Insights Inform New Guidelines Dr. Pothuri, your research focuses on NGS in endometrial cancer. How common is the use of this tool as a standard of care? Dr. Pothuri: Here at NYU Langone, we now perform NGS on all patients with endometrial cancer right at the time of diagnosis. The entire field is moving in this direction, and we now recognize four distinct molecular subtypes, correlated with prognosis. In fact, the information from NGS has become so important that it will change the staging of some endometrial cancers, and it may also affect treatment. For instance, a stage 1A uterine serous cancer with p53 alteration will be a stage 2 in the soon-to-be adopted Federation in Gynecology and Oncology (FIGO) staging system. Escalating or De-Escalating Care How is NGS helping to inform treatment in endometrial cancer? We know from my own research that there is a high rate of pathogenic germline variant detection in those patients who undergo NGS. We have marker-directed immunotherapy options to offer these patients, so undergoing tumor sequencing becomes critical to matching the right patients with appropriate therapies. “This is a culmination of all of my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce its burden and save lives.” Conversely, under the new staging classification, these insights can actually help us to de-escalate treatment in patients considered low-risk, such as those with POLE -mutated cancers. In Europe, they have already adjusted ESGO/ESTRO/ESP guidelines so that adjuvant treatment is no longer recommended in some patients with stage 1 or 2 cancers that are completely resected. Disparities Limit Universal Testing Despite the recognized benefits of genetic testing, there’s evidence that it’s underutilized. Why? It’s true that even before diagnosis, patients at risk for hereditary cancers are not being referred appropriately for genetic testing. We reported a stark example of this, where the vast majority of patients who met National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) criteria for BRCA only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer . That is a tremendous missed opportunity when we have effective preventive strategies to offer these patients. As gynecologic oncologists, we see patients once they’re already diagnosed, so education is needed at the primary care, internist, or obstetrician and gynecologist level to flag those patients whose family history meets criteria for genetic testing referral. “The vast majority of patients who met NCCN criteria for genetic testing only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer. That is a tremendous missed opportunity.” Notably, we also found that compared to those with private health insurance, publicly insured or uninsured patients were three times more likely to undergo testing after cancer was already diagnosed. We reported significant racial/ethnic inequity in testing referral in our endometrial cancer study as well. These findings point to the broad issue of access and implicit bias affecting cancer treatment and participation in clinical trials. Ensuring Access to the Best Treatments What are the repercussions of access inequality when it comes to clinical trials? There’s the obvious negative impact on outcomes for patients who could benefit from a trial but aren’t referred. Importantly, we now have evidence that this dynamic is likely also impacting trial results. For example, we examined data from patients with advanced or recurrent uterine serous carcinomas who received NGS testing and found that Black patients comprised nearly half of this population . Furthermore, 38 percent of Black patients had cancer with CCNE1 amplification, which is associated with poorer outcomes, while no White patients had this alteration. If a clinical trial of a therapy targeting amplification under-enrolls Black patients, not only will it result in a negative trial, it will miss the opportunity to treat those patients most likely to be affected by the condition—those who experience worse outcomes and need the treatment. You also serve as director for diversity and health equity in clinical trials for the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) Foundation. Going forward, what changes can help ensure needed diversity in this space? Removing implicit bias from the clinical trial selection process can help diversify enrollment. In our research, when a pre-screener examined medical charts without seeing patients, we increased enrollment in a trial by threefold in six months; patients enrolled before implementation of pre-screening were all non-Hispanic White, while patients enrolled subsequently were either non-Hispanic Black or Hispanic White. We also need to require mandatory implicit bias, anti-racism, and cultural humility training for all involved in clinical research. Applying ASCO-ACCC’s Just ASK training will be important, as we know that over two-thirds of patients of diverse populations are willing to go on trials when asked. It’s also critical we address barriers to trial participation, including transportation, loss of wages, and childcare, and ensure protocols are not overly restrictive. For genetic testing, as the cost comes down, we need universal testing. We are embarking on a study with three locations in Brooklyn to offer genetic testing to Hispanic, Afro-Caribbean, and Chinese patients to understand patient uptake and provider feasibility of offering universal testing. We are very excited to activate this study. This is a culmination of all my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce their burden and save lives. Bhavana Pothuri, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology, director of gynecologic oncology research, and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research and clinical interests include next-generation tumor sequencing and precision medicine for ovarian and endometrial cancers. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology The Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions president discusses helping shape the subspecialty’s future. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs A specialist in functional neurological disorders calls for greater attention to little-understood condition. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 As the pandemic entered its second year, NYU Langone Health researchers led in outlining responses to reduce psychiatric harms. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality Unsettling finding associate the mental illness with nearly three times higher risk of death. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Internet games like Call of Duty and Pokémon are a massive global business, generating an estimated total revenue of $196 billion in 2022 . The continued growth of online gaming has revealed a considerable downside, however, with psychiatrists seeing an influx of patients presenting with symptoms of gaming addiction. While the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , released in 2013, listed “internet gaming disorder,” it did so not as a formal disorder but as a condition that could be considered for official inclusion pending more clinical research and experience. In the decade since, interest in identifying diagnostic and treatment strategies has risen significantly. Anil Thomas, MD , clinical associate professor of psychiatry and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship , discusses the emerging diagnosis of internet gaming disorder, growing clinical interest, and the opportunity to advance research and awareness. Drivers of Addiction How big of a problem is gaming addiction? Dr. Thomas: It is a growing problem. Multiple factors have contributed to a rapid increase in recent years. Cell phones have made it possible to take gaming anywhere. Additionally, with people sheltered in their homes during COVID-19, the pandemic steepened that trajectory. In terms of when gaming should be considered a problem, it is when an individual is neglecting other components of life, like taking care of themselves and their daily activities. Playing all night, neglecting social interactions, not maintaining friendships or contacting family, having gaming interfere with other responsibilities like work—these are all suggestive of a problem. “All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important.” On a neurological level, while there are few studies, it holds true that gaming addiction follows the same pathways in the brain as alcohol, opiate use, or any behavior that is driven by a similar reward system. Who seems to be more susceptible to this kind of addiction? In general, we’re seeing more male than female patients: it’s about 56 to 44 percent. And there is a large cohort of gamers that are adolescents. Their executive function, their prefrontal cortexes, have not developed yet like an adult’s. So they may not be able to make the decision, “Hey, this is too much for me, let me back away from it or temper it.” At the same time, younger gamers might not have access to the money needed to continue playing. So there is a balance between older and younger players with addiction problems. Screening Strategies What happens when someone with symptoms of gaming addiction goes to a psychiatrist at NYU Langone? We have addiction psychiatrists who assess for gaming disorders and manage that if it arises. It is a simple question: Do you play video games? And if the answer is yes, then you tease it out and see if they are neglecting other parts of their life. Patients are usually at an extreme point in their addiction before they seek help. There is that denial because it looks so benign until you’ve lost hours and hours of your life and potentially your job or social connections. A proper assessment is vital. Symptoms could point to another comorbid condition: Do they have an anxiety issue or depressive issue that they’re compensating for with the gaming? In that sense, treating the underlying psychiatric diagnosis with say, an anxiolytic or antidepressant, can improve the gaming addiction. But the thing that really helps is cognitive behavioral therapy. It’s not abstinence, but rather a harm reduction strategy so that the individual can engage in other activities and regain a healthy balance. What advice do you have for other clinicians? I think all clinicians—especially outpatient clinicians, family practice physicians, psychiatrists, internists—when they see a new patient and are screening for some sort of addiction, they should drop a question about internet gaming just to see if this is another issue. All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important. Increasingly Addictive Games To what extent are game developers contributing to the problem by making their games more addictive? Actively. They have an incentive to get players to spend money and be more engaged. They don’t want to make it too hard to earn in-game rewards. At the same time, they don’t want to make it too boring so that players switch to another game. They want to hit that sweet spot that convinces the gamer to continue to play. That’s called the “flow,” which is the zone where the challenge matches the player’s skill level. Game developers are actively monitoring where that “flow” is so they can pull in gamers and keep them there—and then playing for 5 hours, 10 hours will feel like the blink of an eye, possibly at the expense of sleep, food, and everything else. How can psychiatrists be more actively involved in promoting awareness around the hazards of gaming addiction? I believe that, like all diseases and aliments, we need to be aware and acknowledge that it exists. We need to educate parents and colleagues on signs of unhealthy gaming behavior, and finally screen for gaming disorder if there are indications. Anil Thomas, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry, director of the Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship, and associate director and senior psychiatrist in the Addictions Division at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry is a unique podcast by clinicians, for clinicians, that connects cutting-edge discoveries with practical takeaways that can help you improve your patients’ care today. In each episode, host , a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and a nationally recognized specialist in mental health illnesses including obsessive-compulsive disorder and anxiety, explores a unique topic with a guest expert who is pursuing the most critical and compelling questions at the cutting-edges of their research area. “It’s an honor to… help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Insights on Psychiatry is part a look at the future of where psychiatry is headed and part a practical guide to improving the treatment we provide today,” says Dr. Gallagher. “It’s an honor to converse with such fascinating group of peers about their research and to help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Welcome from Our Leadership “It is with great pleasure that we welcome into our educational programming. This series hosted by Dr. Thea Gallagher, one of our communication leaders, features clinical thought leaders from across our department discussing their passionate work with patients and in their specific area of research. We view these discussions as a way of your being able to meet and greet our experts over a virtual cup of coffee.  We know you will find them to be lively, informative and enriching.” , Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair, and Lenard A. Adler, MD , Vice Chair for Education, Department of Psychiatry Listen Now Listen on Apple Podcasts Listen on Spotify Listen on Google Podcasts Listen on Overcast Listen on Amazon Music Recent Episodes SEASON 2, EPISODE 12: APRIL 15, 2024 For the final episode of Season 2, we’re joined by Dr. Samuele Cortese , Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at the University of Southampton (UK) and Adjunct Full Professor at NYU Langone. Together we explore the intersection of pediatric ADHD and precision psychiatry, including the disorder’s genetic underpinnings and evolving treatment options. 00:00 Introduction 00:54 Dr. Cortese’s Research Journey 02:11 Global Perspectives and Challenges in ADHD Treatment 03:51 Advances in ADHD Diagnosis and Treatment 06:41 Role of Genetics in ADHD 09:33 Precision Treatment and Stratification 12:17 Treatment Adherence and Shared Decision-Making 23:55 Connection Between ADHD and Obesity 28:39 Non-Stimulant Alternatives and Future Directions in ADHD Treatment 32:16 Non-Pharmacological Treatments 37:28 Advice for Clinicians and Closing Thoughts Read full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 11: APRIL 09, 2024 Dr. Timothy Wilens is a Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital. His research interest include the relationship between ADHD, bipolar disorder, and substance use disorders; ADHD pharmacotherapy; and stimulant medication misuse. On this episode, Dr. Wilens discusses the importance of early diagnosis and intervention in ADHD, as well as its lifelong implications. He takes us through the evolution of ADHD treatment, from behavioral therapies to modern pharmacological interventions, including stimulant and non-stimulant medications, and the application of digital therapeutics. The conversation also touches on the stigma surrounding ADHD, the role of precision medicine, and the future of ADHD research. 02:50 Evolution of ADHD Treatment 04:43 Stigma and Misconceptions 12:18 Importance of Early Intervention 15:02 ADHD Symptoms and Treatment Approaches 30:02 Addressing Concerns About Stimulant Medications 35:50 Navigating the Complexities of ADHD Medication 41:22 Future of ADHD Research and Treatment 43:20 Conclusion SEASON 2, EPISODE 10: APRIL 02, 2024 Dr. Ira Glick is Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University Medical Center, where he has served as director of the Schizophrenia Research Clinic. On this episode, he discusses his research journey, which began in the 1960s and followed a shift from psychoanalysis to biological psychiatry. He addresses the broken social safety net for schizophrenia patients, including the controversial topic of treating some patients against their will, as well as the challenges of medication adherence, and the stigma surrounding severe mental illness. 00:49 Evolution of Schizophrenia Treatment 04:34 Science Behind Schizophrenia Medications 07:39 Addressing the Public Health Challenges of Schizophrenia 11:15 Stigma and Misunderstanding of Severe Mental Illness 21:44 Innovative Treatment Approaches and the Future of Schizophrenia Care 31:36 Importance of Public Health Interventions and Political Will 35:45 Closing Remarks and Future Directions SEASON 2, EPISODE 9: MARCH 26, 2024 Dr. Christin Drake is Clinical Associate Professor and Vice Chair of Diversity and Equity in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. On this episode, Dr. Drake discusses ongoing efforts to improve mental health equity, including by improving psychiatric services for underserved groups, gathering better data, and boosting diversity among health care providers. She also discusses the importance of integrating mental health care into perinatal services and challenges the conventional wisdom about stigma toward mental health care in the Black community. 00:55 Dr. Drake’s Vision for Equity in Mental Health Care 03:46 Addressing Racial Inequities in Psychiatry: A Critical Conversation 04:45 The Importance of Representation and Mentorship in Psychiatry 10:32 Building Foundations for Health Equity: Data and Systemic Change 22:16 Integrating Psychiatric Care into Perinatal Health 33:31 Rethinking Mental Health Stigma in the Black Community 38:08 Future Projects and Closing Thoughts See full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 8: MARCH 19, 2024 Dr. John Krystal is Chair of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine. He is best known for leading the discovery of the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine, which paved the way for the first major new antidepressant drug in decades. Here, Dr. Krystal talks about what we’ve learned in the five years since esketamine nasal spray was approved by the FDA, including efforts to predict treatment response, dosage and frequency, safety, and long-term impact. He also discusses advances in our understanding of alcohol use disorder and weighs in on the search for psychiatric biomarkers. 01:01 Dr. Krystal’s Research Journey 03:32 What We’ve Learned Since Esketamine’s FDA Approval 05:59 Avoiding Misuse 08:11 Optimizing Dosage 16:25 Predicting Treatment Outcomes 24:17 Ketamine vs. Psychedelics 25:48 Advances in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder 32:33 Precision Psychiatry and Personalized Treatment Approaches 39:49 Psychiatric Biomarkers 41:03 The Future of Psychiatric Research and Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 7: MARCH 12, 2024 Dr. Robert Findling is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry at the Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine. Here he discusses recent advances in pediatric mental health, including his own research on aggression and schizophrenia in young people. Dr. Findling also shares his thoughts on the crisis of teen suicide, the lingering impact of COVID-19 on children’s mental health, and the need for early and collaborative interventions. 00:46 Clinical and Research Journey 02:56 Aggression with impulsivity and reactivity (AIR) 06:48 Precision Pediatric Psychiatry 15:34 Schizophrenia 20:31 What Kids Need to Thrive 23:10 Teen Suicide 25:09 Role of Schools and Primary Care 30:58 Loneliness Epidemic Among Children 32:32 Improving Access to Pediatric Mental Health Care 40:00 Bipolar Disorder 43:24 Future Research and Hope for Young Patients 45:11 Conclusion: Importance of Early Intervention SEASON 2, EPISODE 6: MARCH 05, 2024 Dr. Charles Nemeroff is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Texas-Austin’s Dell Medical School. He is also co-director of the Center for Psychedelic Research and Therapy, and director of the Institute for Early Life Adversity Research. His research is focused on the pathophysiology of mood and anxiety disorders with a focus on the role of child abuse and neglect as a major risk factor. 00:52 Dr. Nemeroff’s Research Journey 01:55 Childhood Maltreatment as Risk Factor 04:53 Advances and Challenges in Precision Psychiatry 07:33 Psychedelic Medicine (incl. blinding issues and potential adverse events) 20:50 How Psychedelics Disrupt the “Circle of Hell” 30:00 Psilocybin as Potential Treatment for Anorexia Nervosa 38:32 Screening for Childhood Maltreatment 41:30 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 44:14 Focused Ultrasound 46:32 Prescribing MAOIs 49:34 Conclusion Read full transcript. SEASON 2, EPISODE 5: FEBRUARY 27, 2024 Empathy (with Helen Riess, MD) Dr. Helen Riess is Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Director of Empathy Research and Training in the Psychotherapy Research Group at Massachusetts General Hospital. She is also Founder and Chief Executive Officer at Empathetics , a company that provides science-based empathy and interpersonal skills training for healthcare professionals. Her research focuses on improving empathy and relational skills in physicians. 01:14 Defining Empathy 03:38 Empathy and Burnout 05:00 Care for the Caregiver 07:52 Exquisite Empathy and Burnout 09:18 Building Empathy and Avoiding Overburden 10:45 Developing Boundaries in Clinical Practice 11:45 Training and Teaching Empathy 13:42 Model for Recognizing Emotion in Others 15:11 Becoming Emotion Detectives 19:31 Leadership’s Role in Creating Supportive Workplaces 23:22 Benefits of Empathy Training 29:07 Technology and Empathy Training 34:18 Research on MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy 37:43 Building Empathy and Compassion 40:07 Taking Small Steps Towards Empathy 42:32 Resources for Building Empathy 43:28 Future of Empathy Training The Empathy Effect (Dr. Riess’s book) The Power of Empathy (TEDx Talk) SEASON 2, EPISODE 4: FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (with Christopher Pittenger, MD, PhD) Dr. Christopher Pittenger is a Professor of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine and Director of the Yale OCD Research Clinic . In this episode, he discusses the neurobiology, symptomology, and treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), including potential new treatments such as psychedelics, neurofeedback, glutamate modulators, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). 00:41 Why is OCD Underdiagnosed? 02:19 Impact of OCD on Individuals 03:40 Taboo Nature of OCD Thoughts 06:10 Biomarkers 08:06 Neurobiology 14:20 Serotonin 16:48 Heterogeneity of OCD 24:00 Glutamate Modulators 29:33 Ketamine 33:13 Psilocybin 38:23 Neurofeedback 44:01 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 47:22 Relationship Between Depression and OCD 50:24 Future of OCD Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 3: FEBRUARY 13, 2024 Meditation (with Richard Davidson, PhD) Dr. Richard Davidson is the William James and Vilas Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Founder & Director of the Center for Healthy Minds .  In this episode, he discusses the current state of research on mindfulness and meditation as mental health interventions. 02:15 Focus areas in current research 04:37 Well-being as a universal intervention 06:21 Beyond mindfulness: other forms of meditation 07:24 Four pillars of well-being: awareness, connection, insight, and purpose 13:04 Healthy Minds Program and the impact of short daily meditation practices 17:05 Comparison of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) and the Healthy Minds Program, focusing on accessibility and time commitment 20:55 The potential for structural changes in the brain with meditation 26:24 Integrating mindfulness and meditation into clinical practice 28:06 Micro-supports for everyday well-being 33:27 Mindfulness and social connection 35:06 Future research directions, including the concept of a flourishing city SEASON 2, EPISODE 2: FEBRUARY 06, 2024 Dr. Ronald Kessler is the McNeil Family Professor of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School. His groundbreaking work on the social determinants of mental health, studied from an epidemiological perspective, has made him the most widely cited psychiatric researcher in the world.  In this wide-ranging conversation, he talks about precision psychiatry’s enormous potential and incremental development, delving into his own efforts to better identify at-risk patients and predict treatment efficacy. Dr. Kessler stresses the need for better data and bigger studies, and envisions a future of AI-supported clinicians. 00:53 Dr. Kessler’s Journey to Precision Psychiatry 02:45 The Importance of Data 04:14 Risk Factors and Treatment Optimization 10:42 Successes and Challenges 13:23 The Importance of Baseline Information 23:46 Machine Learning in Veterans Health 24:27 Determining Suicide Risk 25:35 Interventions and Cost-Effectiveness 26:16 Esketamine Trials and Response Prediction 27:07 Risk Models and Comparative Risk Models 27:15 Insomnia Treatment in Military Personnel 29:36 Cost-Benefit Analyses 35:45 AI in Medicine and Patient Response 42:21 Future of Precision Psychiatry 45:51 Closing Remarks SEASON 2, EPISODE 1: JANUARY 30, 2024 Dr. Petros Levounis is President of the American Psychiatric Association and a leader in addiction research. He joins host Thea Gallagher, PsyD, to talk about the latest in addiction medicine, the state of the opioid crisis, the growing problem of technology addiction, and the promise and risks of psychedelic medicine. He also shares his hopes for the future of psychiatry, including better integration of diagnoses, treatments, and outcomes for people with mental health disorders. 00:00 Introduction to NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry 00:16 Dr. Levounis’s role and priorities as APA president 00:46 The State of Addiction Medicine 02:12 Neurobiology of Addiction 03:37 Interplay Between Mental Health and Addiction 06:03 Potential and Challenges of Psychedelic Medicine 08:37 Cannabis and Tech Addictions 10:11 Addressing the Opioid Crisis: Strategies and Solutions 15:28 Addressing Technological Addictions 28:55 The Future of Psychiatry: Goals and Aspirations 35:47 Conclusion and Final Thoughts Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Skeletal maintenance and healing rely heavily on stem cells to replace tissue lost to injury, disease, or wear and tear. Preserving this readiness requires skeletal stem cells to be continually renewed by cell division and kept in an immature, uncommitted state, the underlying mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. A subsequent differentiation process can then yield the bone tissue’s major cellular lineages. Skeletal stem cells become depleted with age, however, resulting in weaker bones that are more susceptible to fracture and less adept at efficient repair and regeneration . If directed to remain in greater numbers, conversely, they might provide a rich source of replacements for lost cells or a promising therapeutic target for rejuvenating aging bones. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing.” Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD new study published in the journal Development , a group of researchers at NYU Langone Health discovered that this maintenance role in adulthood may be spearheaded by the same family of Hox (or homeobox) genes that are better known for directing bone formation during embryonic development. A Newly Discovered Role in Adult Bone Maintenance In mice and humans, 39 Hox genes act as site-specific transcriptional factors to guide immature stem cells in different regions of the developing embryo. Their precise expression patterns act like zip codes to direct where heart muscle, nerve, bone, and other tissues should form, helping to establish the organism’s body plan. The new research suggests that the Hox genes’ previously unreported role later in life may help keep pools of periosteal stem and progenitor cells at the ready in the bone’s outer periosteum membrane. These available replacement cells can then help maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, again in a highly location-dependent manner. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing,” says study senior author and orthopedic trauma surgeon In the adult skeleton, he and colleagues found, Hox genes are highly expressed by periosteal stem and progenitor cells but not by more mature cell types like osteoblasts. The research team showed that a deficiency in Hox genes spurs a decrease in the abundance and proliferation of skeletal stem cells, and an increase in their propensity to differentiate into more mature cell types. In a mix of stem and progenitor cells grown in culture, conversely, increasing the expression of the Hoxa10 gene reduced the cells’ tendency to differentiate and increased their capacity to self-renew. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive.” When they differentiate, skeletal stem cells give rise to progenitor cells with more limited lineage options and defined lifespans. Here too, the researchers found that overexpressing the gene yielded dramatic results: The transcription factor drove a reprogramming process that reverted a significant fraction of skeletal progenitor cells to a more primitive, self-renewing stem cell–like state. Location-Specific Hox Code Governs Bone Repair As in the embryonic development process, the reprogramming seemed to be highly location dependent. The reversion to more naive stem cells, they found, was restricted to adult stem cells from the same anatomical region where the corresponding Hox genes are expressed, like the gene’s preferential expression in the tibia and the Hoxa5 gene’s preferential expression in anterior ribs. In support of the group’s previous research demonstrating a loss of functional skeletal stem cells with age and an undermining of the skeleton’s regenerative capacity, the new study showed a coincident reduction in Hox expression with age. In mice, they discovered, temporarily overexpressing partially restored some of the age-related loss in the skeletal tissue’s ability to heal a tibia fracture. If borne out by more research, clinicians might be able to reprogram the more prevalent progenitor cells in adult skeletal tissue and return them to a more primitive state. The newly converted cells, in turn, could help replenish declining skeletal stem cell populations and improve the bone-healing process in older or repair-compromised patients. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive,” Dr. Leucht says. Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD, is the Raj-Sobti-Menon Associate Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, an associate professor of cell biology, and vice chair for research in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research focuses on the molecular and cellular processes of bone healing. Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions Vulvovaginal disorders, including vulvar pain, chronic vulvovaginal itching or irritation, and skin conditions such as lichen sclerosus and lichen simplex chronicus, occur frequently and are a major reason many women seek healthcare. About one-third of vulvovaginal disorders are gynecologic in nature, one-third are dermatologic, and the remaining are undiagnosed vulvovaginitis, says Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD , a general gynecologist and director of NYU Langone Health’s Center for Vulvar Health. “These conditions can be challenging and time-consuming to diagnose and treat. Patients often see multiple doctors before they receive a diagnosis and treatment plan.” “The Center for Vulvar Health provides comprehensive and thorough care in this often-overlooked area.” Gynecologists often receive limited training in the diagnosis and management of vulvar conditions, Dr. Podolsky says. These disorders can also be underrecognized by dermatologists , who may lack comfort with examination techniques and be unfamiliar with normal anatomic variations. Additionally, many of these conditions are not resolved in one or two visits, making them challenging to manage in a general gynecologic practice, Dr. Podolsky adds. Recognizing Vulvar Pain Vulvar pain, or vulvodynia, is a common condition seen at the Center for Vulvar Health. For years, patients with vulvar pain have dealt with uncertain diagnoses and little in the way of treatment, Dr. Podolsky says. “That’s starting to change—there’s more recognition of the problem now.” “Chronic vulvar pain is prevalent and has a significant impact on quality of life, including sexual function,” she adds. “It can be a very frustrating condition for the patient since the causes are multifactorial and they have usually been told nothing is wrong because their skin looks normal.” The pathophysiology of vulvar pain is difficult to determine and can be infectious, inflammatory, or neuropathic in nature, Dr. Podolsky says. A diagnosis requires careful listening to the patient’s symptoms, a focused physical examination, and attention to the common comorbidities (medical and sexual) with which vulvar pain can be associated. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments.” Possible treatment options include topical or oral medications, injections, physical therapy, lifestyle interventions, and surgical procedures. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments,” Dr. Podolsky notes. New Treatments for Vaginal Infections Dr. Podolsky sees numerous patients with vulvovaginal symptoms caused by yeast or bacteria. About 75 percent of women in the United States develop a vaginal yeast infection, or candidiasis, during their lifetime. “While many of these conditions are easily treated and resolved, some patients have recurrent or treatment-resistant vulvovaginitis,” Dr. Podolsky says. “Now we have new tools in the arsenal, including Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp), the first new antifungal to be FDA-approved in over 20 years for recurrent yeast infections.” Vulvar Skin Conditions and Cancer The Center for Vulvar Health also treats several skin conditions that often affect the vulva, such as lichen sclerosus and lichen planus. Both are inflammatory autoimmune diseases that confer an increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. It is important for those affected to be on long-term treatment and have regular examinations to keep the disorder under control, prevent or treat symptoms, and lower the risk for developing cancer, Dr. Podolsky notes. She recommends that gynecologists and dermatologists examine the vulva carefully, empower patients to discuss complaints, “and make use of resources like our center.” Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD, is a general gynecologist and director of the Center for Vulvar Health. Her clinical focus is on the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic conditions that affect the vulva. She is also a North American Menopause Society–certified menopause practitioner. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness Perinatal mood and anxiety disorders are common, with roughly 50 percent of cases in pregnant women going undiagnosed. Of those who receive a diagnosis, only a fraction receive successful treatment. In addition to the considerable effects on maternal and infant morbidity and mortality , there is a large cost burden associated with these disorders, particularly perinatal depression and anxiety. To begin to close these gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine has launched a Perinatal Mental Health Program aiming to strengthen providers’ ability to identify and treat women who are experiencing anxiety, depression, mood disorders, or other mental health issues during the perinatal period. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments.” Olivia P. Myrick, MD “International guidelines recommend screening for mental health disorders including depression during the postpartum period. However, once the screening is completed, following up with appropriate clinical intervention often does not occur,” says Jessica M. Vernon, MD , director of the new program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Changing the Postpartum Trajectory Unfortunately, the limited availability of specialized mental health providers is a significant barrier to integrated healthcare in primary care settings and is especially problematic for pregnant women or those in the postpartum period. “Common barriers to accessing care include lack of physician availability and issues with insurance reimbursement,” says , director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. “Very few psychiatrists specialize in pregnant and postpartum women, and few obstetricians are trained to manage psychiatric issues.” Launched in 2021, NYU Langone’s program has already forged strong collaborative relationships with reproductive psychiatrists and overhauled outpatient workflows, including hiring a new psychiatry fellow to help women with more complex mental health needs and educating obstetric providers on improved screening and treatment initiation. In addition, the program has recruited a dedicated social worker to manage lower-risk patients. Through the screening process, the providers share referrals and support each other in providing evidence-based, personalized treatment. Forging Unique Relationships Additional barriers to mental healthcare in pregnancy include lack of reimbursement and lengthy wait times for psychiatrists. However, these limitation are mitigated through the unique patient–provider relationships within the obstetric care setting. There is a growing consensus that integrating mental health services into existing service settings, including primary care, is a promising means of increasing access to mental healthcare services; and changes in reimbursement policies can be effective in this regard. “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations,” explains Dr. Vernon. “We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations. We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” NYU Langone’s perinatal mental health team meets weekly to discuss high-risk patients to ensure they are managed appropriately. With evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of medication and therapy for many perinatal mood disorders, treatment primarily delivered by an obstetric team is optimal, and the direct costs are often reimbursed for patients who are already receiving concurrent prenatal care within the practice. Expanding the Project Nationally Today, many obstetrics and gynecology residents and clinicians lack sufficient awareness of mental illness during pregnancy, contributing to the many cases that go unrecognized. Dr. Myrick and Dr. Vernon plan to improve education by launching a series of lectures and by forming partnerships with key stakeholders, such as the National Curriculum in Reproductive Psychiatry , to disseminate these materials broadly. In the long term, they hope to develop a national curriculum for obstetrics and gynecology trainees, which will be formally published and made available to medical educators. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments,” says Dr. Myrick. “We need to improve access to education, especially for obstetrics and gynecology trainees.” “The team plans to validate and further refine the model in the coming months, with the potential for telemedicine to be used in the future for diagnosis and treatment.” Obstetrics, Gynecology Olivia P. Myrick, MD, is director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and associate director of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency. She specializes in providing compassionate, evidence-based care and support for women throughout pregnancy and childbirth and after delivery. Jessica M. Vernon, MD, is director of the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Her research focuses on the development of programs that provide a holistic approach to patient care, including mental and emotional support during the pregnancy and postpartum period. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in Las Vegas March 7–11, 2023, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA Analgesic benefits of second dexamethasone dose in patients with diabetes outweigh transient blood sugar rise. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy NYU Langone Health debuts a first-of-its-kind fellowship in a minimally invasive procedure. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Wireless arthroscopy camera system, first of its kind, could decrease costs and patient risks in orthopedics. New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ Minimally invasive CT, ablation, and cement fixation technique improves pain and mobility in a patient with multiple myeloma. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery Preoperative conferences for high-risk patients significantly reduce complications, readmissions, and reoperation rates. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine , the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry in the and an associate professor in the , has devoted her career to helping racial and ethnic minoritized people achieve wellness and recovery from substance use disorders. Recently, she was selected as the first recipient of the Award for the Promotion of Inclusion, Diversity, Equality, and Justice in Addiction Medicine from the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) Dr. Jordan is the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s . Additionally, she is director of the equity, diversity, and inclusion initiative for the National Institute of Drug Abuse’s Justice Community Opioid Innovation Network recently spoke with Dr. Jordan about the ASAM honor and the critical nature of this work. Integrating Cultural and Structural Competency into Care Dr. Jordan, congratulations on the ASAM award to be presented at next year’s conference. How did your clinical and research interests evolve to focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion in addiction medicine? Dr. Jordan: I describe my work as seeing how external factors beyond the physician–patient relationship impact health outcomes. When I was in medical school and treating patients in the Bronx, a lot of the work we did focused on cultural competency—how patients’ cultural views and understanding of their illness impacts decision-making and behavior related to their illness. This is necessary, but not sufficient. Additionally, factors like immigration status, or poverty, or coming from a minoritized background, or not having access to education had a strong impact on health. At Yale New Haven Hospital, I helped to establish a co-occurring disorders clinic that focused on integrating structural competency into caring for patients with both mental illness and addiction. We called this clinic the Medication for Addiction Treatment Consultation Center, where we not only dealt with someone’s substance use disorder but also tried to understand how factors in the environment like homelessness, legal problems, and racism affect their health. We formed partnerships with community organizations to ensure that patients had housing, legal support, etc., in connection with treating their mental illness and addiction. The State of Addiction Care in the United States Looking more broadly across the United States, how would you characterize the current state of addiction care and harm reduction when it comes to minoritized and marginalized communities? I am hopeful about the possibilities and what we can do with all the resources that we have in this nation. But the reality is that there is still an overwhelming erasure of the stark inequities that exist in terms of the current drug overdose crisis. There’s recent scholarship showing that Black people actually outpaced the rate of White people in drug overdose deaths . That’s not being covered with the same kind of ferociousness as when opioids affected the White population in the 2000s. That’s really important. If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated. “If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated.” Another thing that’s really unfortunate is that we have these two tiers of medical care. There is amazing treatment for people who are misusing opioids, and it is still overwhelmingly accessed by White males. Even if they have access to insurance, Black, Latinx, and Indigenous people are not getting access to the lifesaving treatment known as buprenorphine. Bringing Awareness, Leveraging Resources How does your work aim to address these inequities? Part of what I have tried to do in my lab, The Jordan Wellness Collaborative, is bring awareness to these issues and to think about innovative or creative ways that we can get people from racial and ethnic minoritized backgrounds engaged in education. Also, improving treatment initiation and engagement so that if they start addiction treatment they stay because their points of views are valued. Another thing we’re doing is leveraging resources to lift up harm reduction programs led by predominantly Black and Latinx organizations to support their efforts to stop the preventable deaths that are occurring right now. We are also teaching our trainees about safety optimization and about the different cultural considerations for people from racial and ethnic minoritized communities and why they might be hesitant to engage in harm reduction services. Incorporating Inclusion in Practice As the inaugural recipient of this award, do you have any plans to work with the ASAM to advance these types of efforts nationally? I’m excited to be working with ASAM to develop a virtual curriculum, not just for trainees, but to support doctors—addiction specialists who are already in the field and generalists who want to take care of this population but may not have had access to this knowledge during their training. That’s huge because we’re talking about intersecting identities, not just racial and ethnic minoritized groups, but people who are involved in the carceral system, people who are from gender and sexual minority statuses. We’ve just produced the first module in that series. ASAM is rolling that out at the start of the new year. How would you advise practitioners across the United States who want to be more involved in advancing equity and inclusion in their clinical work or in their research? Over the years my colleagues and I have developed a whole set of resources, which are available through the REACH Program I also encourage people to get involved in AAAP, the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatrists. They have provided a clinical support series, and a lot of the webinars over the past 18 months have been created to teach about racial and social justice in addiction. Other groups like the ASAM and American College of Academic Addiction Medicine (ACAAM) are following suit. Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD, is the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry and an associate professor of population health. She is also the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. Her clinical and research studies focus on increasing access to evidence-based treatments for racial and ethnic minorities with substance use and other mental health disorders, utilizing community-engaged research principles. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Traditional spine surgery requires a midline incision and dissection of muscle to expose the underlying bone. More recently, orthopedic surgeons have used tubular retractors and a microscope to perform less invasive operations, but they still require open dissection of the tissue, leading to soft tissue destruction, denervation, and longer periods of postoperative pain and recovery. A breakthrough method debuted at NYU Langone Health in 2022, called dual portal endoscopic spine surgery, is a “game changer” for minimally invasive techniques, says Yong H. Kim, MD , director of the degenerative spine service in the Division of Spine Surgery . Like endoscopic knee surgery, it requires only two tiny incisions for a camera and surgical tools, minimizing pain and recovery times. “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different.” “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different,” Dr. Kim says. Introducing the Endoscopic Technique In June of 2022, Dr. Kim traveled to Korea to learn the technique firsthand from surgeons there. “That was just an unbelievable, eye-opening experience,” he says. “When I came back I said, ‘We’ve got to do this!’” Returning to NYU Langone, Dr. Kim trained Charla R. Fischer, MD , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery. Since last August, the two have performed a few dozen endoscopic spine surgeries. So far, NYU Langone is among only a handful of centers in the United States and the only one in the New York metropolitan region offering the technique. Dr. Fischer is also one of the only female spine surgeons in the world performing the method. Multiple Benefits for Surgeons and Patients The surgical procedure begins with a 4-millimeter cut to insert a camera onto the top of the patient’s spine. A second, even smaller incision further down the back creates a working channel. “Then you triangulate and meet at the intended surgical target,” Dr. Kim says. “While the camera is illuminating the space, you can do all of the work.” Most degenerative lumbar spine surgeries can use the technique, including discectomies, laminectomies, and fusions. As the surgeons hone their skills, they can apply it to the thoracic and cervical spine as well, Dr. Kim says. “Our goal is to do the same surgical procedures in the spine, but with smaller access to the area and less tissue disruption and muscle and bone resection on the way,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good.” The method’s flexibility provides a better ergonomic option for surgeons and allows them to more easily see across the spine. Because the surgery requires only a minimal closure of skin and not muscle fascia, the procedure time can be reduced as well. Dr. Kim adds that the capital investment is considerably less than that required for conventional endoscopic surgery. “This technique utilizes everything that we already have, such as arthroscopic equipment that we use for knee and shoulder surgeries,” he says. For patients, an additional benefit is a lessened need for postsurgical narcotics and an accompanying reduction in the risk of side effects such as drowsiness and constipation. “You don’t have that additive effect of issues related to the narcotic use,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good,” she adds. New Opportunities for Collaboration Conducting the new surgery at the main medical center gives the surgeons access to additional tools used by a range of other specialists, Dr. Fischer says. Likewise, nurses in different services provide valuable input about tools and techniques. “If we had been at the orthopedic hospital, it would’ve been easy to use the arthroscopy tools like a knee and shoulder scope,” she says. “But we’re at the main medical center, where everyone’s pioneering at the next level. It was really fun to see and learn what other surgical specialties are doing.” Beyond training NYU Langone’s five orthopedic fellows, the plans to host an annual cadaver lab to teach other surgeons in the region and meet the growing demand. Colleagues in the Department of Neurosurgery have expressed interest as well. “The Korean surgeons made this technique really good,” Dr. Kim says. “We want to try to make it even more innovative.” Spine Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Charla R. Fischer, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, director of quality and patient safety in the Division of Spine Surgery, and a spine surgery specialist at NYU Langone’s Spine Center. Orthopedic Surgery, Spine Surgery Yong H. Kim, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the degenerative spine service in the Department or Othropedic Surgery’s Division of Spine Surgery. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing PHOTO: Juliana Thomas Photography For the growing numbers of women in the U.S. and many other industrialized countries who are postponing childbearing beyond age 35, oocyte cryopreservation (OC) has become a sought-after fertility preservation method. However, most frozen oocytes have not yet been implanted and data on results remain scarce. Experts at NYU Langone Health recently published the largest U.S. study to date on thaw outcomes from OC performed for age-related fertility decline. The report was based on 15 years of electronic medical records from the Notably, the team found the live birth rate from OC significantly exceeded the live birth rate per cycle in women using IVF at a later age. Live births using OC were 39 percent compared to IVF rates of 21.1 percent in women ages 38 to 40 and 11.1 percent in women ages 41 to 42, as reported by the CDC “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” says lead author Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD. “Our findings shed light on the factors that track with successful births, which include careful screening of embryos to be thawed and implanted.” The Benefits of Early Preservation The researchers examined the records of 543 patients seeking OC services at the center between 2005 and 2020. The median age at first OC was 38.3, and the median age at thaw was 42.6. Certain variables correlated with even higher success rates. Among women who were under 38 at first OC, the rate of live births was 51 percent. Across all ages at first OC, the rate rose to 58 percent for women who thawed more than 20 mature eggs. Women who were under 38 at first OC and thawed more than 20 mature eggs achieved a live birth rate of 70 percent. The length of frozen oocyte storage did not affect outcomes. Preimplantation genetic screening with embryos from frozen eggs resulted in lower miscarriage rates and higher live birth rates per transfer. Such screening also allows for single embryo transfers, yielding singleton pregnancies, which are safer for both the mother and child. The Advantages of Real-Life Data Although a few previous studies had shown that OC results in euploidy and pregnancy rates comparable with IVF, most of these included patients with infertility and cancer. The NYU Langone study excluded patients with such diagnoses, focusing on women freezing eggs solely as insurance against age-related fertility decline. Also different from previous studies, the new publication reported real OC data rather than relying on predictive algorithms that extrapolate outcomes from IVF patients and egg donors. “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy.” “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy,” adds study senior author , director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. “As younger patients freeze eggs and do more than one cycle, the success rates will be even higher than reported in this study.” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD, is a fellow in the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. Her research focuses on fertility preservation and infertility. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication An automated system that flags patients who could most benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), lifesaving drugs for heart failure, more than doubled new prescriptions, according to a pilot program tested by researchers at NYU Langone Health. The study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology and simultaneously Journal of the American College of Cardiology , is the first to directly compare the effectiveness of alert message types that address heart failure. “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs.” “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs,” says study lead author and cardiologist , a clinical instructor in the “By compiling key information in one place, the system may help providers spend less time searching through medical records during a visit and more time speaking with their patients.” Testing the Potential of Automated Alerts While MRAs can greatly increase heart failure survival rates, past studies have shown that almost two-thirds of eligible patients are not prescribed these drugs, says Dr. Mukhopadhyay. Part of the challenge in prescribing MRAs is that the medical information needed to determine a patient’s eligibility is scattered throughout their electronic health record. As a result, experts have been exploring the use of digital messaging tools that automatically analyze standard clinical guidelines and relevant medical data to make treatment decisions easier. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care.” In the new study, the researchers designed a pilot program to find the most effective type of digital alert, testing two automated technologies over six months. For one of the technologies, alerts appeared on the top corner of patient healthcare charts, which are routinely reviewed during visits. They included data that may inform decisions about MRA therapy, such as blood pressure, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and potassium levels in the blood. For the other technology tested, cardiologists received a monthly message within the healthcare system’s internal messaging platform that included a list of those eligible for MRAs. Through this “email,” healthcare providers could open medical charts and read information relevant for prescribing MRAs. Between April and October 2022, the research team tested the notification systems at more than 60 cardiology outpatient clinics. Strong Support for Digital Messaging The results showed that cardiologists who received a banner-like alert on their computer screen prescribed MRA therapy for about 30 percent of their patients over the course of the trial. Those who were instead sent monthly email-like messages prescribed MRA therapy roughly 16 percent of the time. By contrast, those who received neither type of message prescribed the therapy for 12 percent of their patients. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care,” adds Dr. Mukhopadhyay. While the results are highly promising, the researchers caution that this technology was only tested in cardiology practices within a large urban healthcare system. The team plans to explore the effectiveness of these tools in other settings in the future. Amrita Mukhopadhyay, MD, is a clinical instructor in the Department of Medicine and member of the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her research interests include health services, quality of care, outcomes, healthcare delivery science, and clinical decision support and implementation. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users For the past two decades, Crystal F. Lewis, PhD , the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health, has studied the epidemiology of substance use, with an eye toward improving public health approaches to harm reduction and access to care, regardless of active use. A recurring thread in her research has been the potential for pharmacy-based interventions to eliminate disparities and improve health outcomes for communities contending with substance use and related medical and social conditions. “My goal is to find creative ways to deliver care that’s amenable and relevant to communities who have historically been neglected by our healthcare systems,” Dr. Lewis explains. “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors—and particularly independent, minority-owned pharmacists operating in low-income communities.” “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors.” A recent NIH-funded study published in the Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment led by Dr. Lewis and Babak Tofighi, MD , assistant professor of population health, assessed community pharmacists’ perspectives regarding naloxone dispensation and counseling in nonurban areas of New York State. The goal, says Dr. Lewis, was to better understand factors influencing pharmacy provision of overdose education and naloxone distribution. Probing the Perspectives of Frontline Providers Overdose prevention efforts have been shown to be an effective model for reducing fatalities among persons who use opioids, including heroin. New York State’s Opioid Overdose Prevention Program (OOPP) has established standing orders for naloxone dispensation in pharmacies. The medication can be covered under Medicaid and most commercial health plans. Pharmacists also offer printed handouts educating about opioid overdose, as well as topics such as storing naloxone and obtaining refills. The recent mixed-methods study led by Dr. Lewis’s team was conducted among 60 community pharmacists located in 6 New York counties and registered to participate in OOPP. The 29-item semistructured survey revealed an array of insights that Dr. Lewis says might be applicable to similar programs nationwide. Over 58 percent of participating pharmacists reported dispensing naloxone, with an average median of 2 prescriptions per month. Most shared positive beliefs about pharmacy naloxone dispensation, including support for OOPP (93 percent), that pharmacists should play a bigger role in overdose prevention (87 percent), and that naloxone reduces opioid-related overdose (88 percent). Most reported no loss of business related to OOPP participation (85 percent), and no instances of theft or crime by naloxone customers (80 percent). Most were also supportive of expanding pharmacy-based access to vaccinations, referrals to free or on-site HIV testing, informational resources on safe syringe use and disposal, and referrals to medical and social services, including pharmacy-based treatment access for substance use disorders. “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services.” “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services,” Dr. Lewis notes. “Coupling pharmacy-based overdose prevention with offerings like HIV and HCV screenings, vaccinations, and access to telemedicine could further increase engagement in services that are otherwise inaccessible due to social and structural barriers, including the stigma and discrimination commonly inflicted upon communities of color who are heavily burdened with opioid use.” Crystal F. Lewis, PhD, is the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health and an associate professor of psychiatry. She also serves as the division head of Social Solutions and Services Research at the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research and as director of the Center for Research on Cultural and Structural Equity in Behavioral Health. Her research interests center on the epidemiology of substance abuse–associated harms, and the social, cultural, and structural forces driving inequity in prevention and treatment access. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Surgeon’s view of the Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure. Kathryn Colby, MD, PhD , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor and chair in the Department of Ophthalmology, describes an “a-ha” moment that led her to consider removal of Descemet membrane without donor tissue transplant as a possible treatment for Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD). It was 2013, and new research was emerging on the pathophysiology of FECD, as well as anecdotal case reports of corneal clearance in FECD without insertion of donor corneal tissues. Dr. Colby heard a colleague present at EuCornea on a small series of cases involving deliberate descemetorhexis. Convinced that this strategy should work in FECD, she decided to try it. In a report in , Dr. Colby describes how these observations led to the development of her Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure, its current status, and what successful DSO tells us about the pathophysiology of FECD. “The corneal world was skeptical when we began discussing our in 2016,” she says, “but this is a revolution in the surgical treatment of Fuchs disease. It’s been a phenomenal arc from discovery to practice.” The Role of ROCK Inhibitors FECD accounts for more than a third of the corneal transplants performed in the United States. For many years, the only transplantation option consisted of penetrating keratoplasty, which carries risk of tissue rejection and blindness. In 2012, endothelial keratoplasty became the most commonly performed keratoplasty procedure, and selective keratoplasty became the primary surgical treatment for FECD. As clinical evidence mounted for minimally invasive descemetorhexis without keraplasty, the next major advance was a report that a Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor—ripasudil, approved in Japan as glaucoma therapy—rescued two patients with slow-to-clear FECD “We know that the endothelial cells don’t divide after birth, but this showed that they retain some replicative capability,” Dr. Colby explains. A Promising Case Series The DSO procedure pioneered by Dr. Colby combines removing the center part of the cornea’s endothelial layer with the novel application of a ROCK inhibitor to trigger cell migration and regeneration. “Equipping the body with its own means to heal is always preferable to foreign transplant, and we now understand that endothelial cells do in fact have that capability once damaged cells  are removed,” she says. Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Study shows citicoline improves outcomes for elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). In chronic IOP elevation, oral citicoline treatment significantly reduced visual acuity decline, microstructural integrity loss, axonal degeneration, and demyelination—all without altering IOP. SOURCE: Neurotherapeutics. 2021 Apr;18(2):1339-1359. Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor for glaucoma. Yet, neurodegeneration may continue despite adequate IOP control. Citicoline, a chemical known to protect nerve cells , also slows glaucoma, found a Neurotherapeutics Kevin Chan, PhD Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory , was senior author of the study. The researchers used a murine model of glaucoma and multi-parametric MRI, behavioral assessments, and histology to evaluate citicoline’s effect on different magnitudes and durations of IOP elevation. Additionally, they evaluated the effects of oral citicoline treatment as a neurotherapeutic in experimental glaucoma. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments.” In rats with mildly elevated eye pressure, tissues along the visual pathway decayed for up to five weeks after the injury occurred. In a chronic IOP elevation model, three weeks of oral citicoline treatment substantially reduced visual brain integrity loss and visual acuity decline without altering IOP. “In addition, choline metabolites and functional brain signals restored to near-normal levels,” Dr. Chan says. These effects were sustained for another three weeks after treatment was discontinued. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments,” Dr. Chan says. Kevin C. Chan, PhD Kevin C. Chan, PhD, is an assistant professor of ophthalmology, radiology, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering, and director of the Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory. His research focuses on developing and applying new, noninvasive methods for imaging degeneration, development, protection, plasticity, and regeneration in the visual system. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Bariatric surgery may lower risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Two pioneers in novel treatments discuss the most significant innovations on the horizon. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. Patients Benefits of ESD Gastroenterologists at NYU Langone Health are increasingly turning to an outpatient procedure to remove early cancers from the gastrointestinal tract. The procedure, known as endoscopic submucosal dissection, or ESD, is allowing more patients to avoid complex surgeries such as esophagectomy. “Most patients who receive ESD are discharged the next day, after observation. This is a major difference from surgical resection which often requires an inpatient stay of up to 10 days or more,” says , chief of endoscopy and one of only a small number of physicians in the U.S. performing and teaching the highly specialized procedure. During the procedure, Haber uses a high-definition endoscope to locate and mark tumors within the esophagus, stomach, or colon of anesthetized patients. He then injects the area with a solution that includes epinephrine, hetastarch, and methylene blue to elevate the lesion and protect surrounding mucosa, before removing the whole tumor with an electrocautery knife. The approach allows a more precise resection than other techniques, Haber says. More Nuanced Assessment “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece to ensure that all cancerous cells are taken out.” “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece.” Whole, ESD-resected tumors allow for more accurate histopathological assessment. Outcomes from ESD are also comparable to other surgical interventions, Haber says, with acute bleeding as the most common adverse event, followed by perforation, but all manageable with endoscopic treatment. Broad Treatment Potential Patients with Barrett’s esophagus, early-stage dysplastic cancers, or superficial tumors of the esophagus, stomach, or colon all stand to benefit from ESD. These patients would otherwise face invasive surgery to remove parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Deep Tumors Prepared for ESD Endoscopic image showing an esophageal tumor, with margins (yellow arrows) marked by electrocautery. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an emerging technique in the U.S. to resect deep GI tumors. First, tumor margins are marked using electrocautery, as shown here in a 60-year-old patient with a history of acid reflux and Barrett’s esophagus. Prior biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma. Improved Tumor Visibility Endoscopic image showing the lesion elevated from the muscle layer. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Submucosal injection is used to help elevate the lesion from the muscle layer and improve its visibility. Tissue traction further exposes the submucosal space. Whole Tumor Resection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Moving an electrocautery knife circumferentially, the endoscopist performs the submucosal dissection, peeling the intact lesion away from the surrounding esophageal muscle layer with subsequent dissection of the connective tissue of the submucosa beneath the lesion. Entire Specimen Analysis Image of the excised lesion, mounted before being submitted for histopathology. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Once resected, the whole lesion can be pinned and sent for histopathology. Pathological Finding Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining revealing esophageal adenocarcinoma. SOURCE: Katherine Sun, MD, PhD. In this case, pathology revealed esophageal invasive adenocarcinoma with clear margins and no lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Minimal Damage, Healthy Outcomes Endoscopic image 3 months following the procedure showing healthy esophageal tissue. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Bleeding sites are kept clearly visible throughout ESD, allowing quick coagulation when needed. The lesion is completely resected without surgery. At three months, follow-up endoscopy (depicted above) for this patient showed a single healthy-appearing scar with no stenosis or inflammation found in the entire esophagus. Gregory B. Haber, MD, is a gastroenterologist and chief of endoscopy. His clinical interests include developing minimally invasive endoscopic procedures to treat early cancer of the digestive system and mentoring others in advanced endoscopic techniques and technologies. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, and Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff While approximately one-quarter of practicing ophthalmologists are female, the numbers lag when it comes to composition of ophthalmic journal editorial and professional society boards and leadership positions in academic ophthalmology departments, says internationally renowned cornea specialist , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Colby, who joined NYU Langone Health in 2020, recently authored an editorial in JAMA Ophthalmology on the status of women in ophthalmology. recently joined NYU Langone as director of the Division of Cornea Services and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. Here, Drs. Colby and Prescott discuss the state of gender parity, the value of mentorship, and strategies to improve gender equity in the next generation of ophthalmologists. Inequities in Publishing and Speaking Dr. Colby, you’ve written and spoken extensively about gender parity in ophthalmology, especially regarding publications in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Where does the field land on gender parity? Dr. Colby: Ophthalmology is still largely a specialty of white men! Recent studies show that ophthalmology departments are among the least diverse of the medical specialties. Women ophthalmologists do a reasonably good job of publishing, given that the vast majority of ophthalmologists are not in academics. However, when it comes to invited editorials and commentaries, recent articles that show that women lag behind men—that’s what triggered my last editorial. One study showed the proportion of female ophthalmology editorialists is now approximately 30 percent, up from less than 20 percent in the years between 2005 and 2009, which is encouraging. But most female authors tended to be first authors rather than senior authors. And only one of the 20 journals included had a female editor-in-chief during the time of this study. The same study showed that only two of 15 society presidents were women in 2018. While there’s been an increase in the overall number of female speakers at nine major ophthalmology meetings, female speakers at national forums tend to give submitted, rather than invited talks. Not surprisingly, having a woman on the program committee appeared to increase the number of women on the stage. What are some steps that can be taken to ensure more women are recognized? The composition of editorial boards and program committees is critical. Some journals do a very good job of gender parity in both their editorial boards and invited submissions. When you’re invited to write your opinion, de facto, you’re a thought leader. Adopting masked reviews is one way—hiding both the name and institution of the author—and some journals have gone to that. Also, as an editorial board member, it is necessary to call it out when you see inequities. As for national forums, women have to continually speak up when the “manels” (all-male panels) are announced. It’s mostly about raising awareness, not accepting the rationale we’re handed. Although, it is kind of uncomfortable to always be the one to say we need to improve. Equipping Trainees and Young Faculty Dr. Prescott, in your role training the next generation of ophthalmologists, how can we go about equipping women with skills that will help them succeed? Dr. Prescott: Women now represent more than 50 percent of medical school students and 40 percent of ophthalmology residents. Currently at NYU Langone, more than 50 percent of the residents are female. The question we have to ask ourselves is “Where do women who start out on the academic track and are headed towards the leadership track start dropping off?” Between assistant and associate professor is where we see the biggest drop. Something happens that derails many of our female colleagues. When women decide to start a family, if they don’t see a pathway to make that happen, they may go to part time while they’re raising young children. If you do that early in your career, you never really catch up in the publishing and presenting arena. If you don’t accept an invitation to speak when you are invited, eventually people are going to stop asking you to speak. Probably the most important thing we can do is to be role models and mentors to young women—to let them know what’s possible by showing them they can take great care of patients, teach, do research, present at meetings and have a family. In terms of publishing and presenting, we’ve built a formalized research curriculum for all our residents, both male and female. It’s a structured program with a timeline, so residents have time to pursue research and receive help in developing projects so they can determine if this is something they’re interested in. As a group, we discuss journal articles and practice giving presentations. We have visiting speakers come in from the leading academic ophthalmology programs to give our residents additional insights. We ensure that our visiting professorships, including two big name lectures, include women. Networking with other female ophthalmologists is important. The Women in Ophthalmology group has been around for approximately 25 years. In 2019, there were 700 people who attended the meeting. It’s a great place to talk about making the transition to academic leadership positions, balancing work and home, the things we’ve been discussing. It’s been really helpful in raising the consciousness of women in the field. Recruiting Diverse Applicants What about gender breakdowns in academic ophthalmology departments? How do you ensure that you’re recruiting diverse trainees and faculty? It helps to have a woman chair! While there has been an increase in women on academic faculties, the bulk of this increase has been at the assistant professor level. Only about one-quarter of professors are women. Women have lower starting salaries and perform fewer surgeries than men. This goes beyond gender parity—ophthalmology is also behind in recruiting URiM (underrepresented in medicine) residents. Some medical trainees just aren’t exposed to ophthalmology; not all medical schools have ophthalmology programs. And ophthalmology is highly competitive. Out of 500 residency spots last year, only 80 percent of senior medical students from United States medical schools who applied matched. And the number is much lower for other categories of applicants. The American Academy of Opthalmology and Association of University Professors of Opthalmology offer minority mentoring programs to help people get into the field. And the Rabb-Venerable Society supports medical students, residents, and fellows in ophthalmology who are from URiM groups. We now hold 20 percent of our residency interview spots for URiM candidates. We have a program where minority high school students come in and shadow department faculty. The students rotate through different specialties, and get help with the college application process. Programs like this expose students to the possibility of a career in medicine—something they may not have thought about otherwise. While there is definitely more awareness, there is still unconscious bias. We all need to pay attention to parity when we invite speakers, give awards, generate research collaborations, write job offers, and appoint committee members. Those of us in leadership positions need to model diversity. Implementing these things is how we’re going to see the downstream effects. Working with medical students, residents and fellows, I am continually reminded that each we all have different strengths and weaknesses. The more diverse our specialty is, the more we can all learn from each other, and the better we can care for our patients. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Cameron Lesions: Often Overlooked While large hiatal hernias are well known to cause heartburn, vomiting and regurgitation, their role in causing iron deficiency anemia is easily overlooked. One 68-year-old male went years receiving treatment for his anemia of “unknown origin” with regular iron infusions and blood transfusions. It wasn’t untill he sought care for debilitating symptoms of acid reflux and vomiting from , that the cause of both his gastrointestinal issues and anemia was revealed. After detecting a large hiatal hernia, Dr. Gross made the connection that not only was the hernia affecting the patient’s ability to keep food down, but Cameron lesions, or gastric ulcers that result from the recurrent sliding of the stomach across the opening of the diaphragm, were causing chronic blood loss. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion,” Dr. Gross explains. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion.” , then performed a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair, which resolved both the patient’s anemia and gastrointestinal issues. “Every patient that we see is evaluated in a multidisciplinary fashion,” Dr. Damani says. “Having Dr. Gross as the advanced endoscopy specialist who studied the anemia further, having the patient’s hematologist within our system, and our expertise in diagnosing and managing paraesophageal hernias really helped steer the care for this patient in the right direction.” Assessing the Cause of Anemia, Vomiting, Retching Coronal view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. A 68-year-old male presented with a history of anemia as well as complaints of acid reflux, vomiting, retching, and difficulty keeping food down. Multiple tests completed prior to the patient arriving revealed no obvious reason for the chronic blood loss. The patient was receiving regular iron infusions and blood transfusions to treat the anemia. Detection of Large Hiatal Hernia Axial view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. Upon referral for management of worsening symptoms, gastroenterologist Seth A. Gross, MD, detected a large hiatal hernia via endoscopy, which was subsequently confirmed on a CT scan. Cameron Lesions and Iron Deficiency Anemia Before paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Dr. Gross suspected that, in addition to causing the symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching, Cameron lesions associated with the hiatal hernia were causing iron deficiency anemia. The patient was then referred to surgeon Tanuja Damani, MD, and underwent a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair. After paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Mesh reinforcement of the diaphragm was completed during the repair to reduce the risk of hernia recurrence. In total, the procedure lasted 2.5 hours, and the patient was discharged within 48 hours. Following surgery, the patient’s hemoglobin levels—which reached a low of 5.4 g/dl pre-surgery—returned to normal (>15 g/dl), and his symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching completely resolved. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Colon cancer screening remains a persistent challenge for gastroenterologists and primary care physicians alike. As expanded guidelines and technologies widen the pool of screen-eligible adults, fewer barriers remain, says , director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at NYU Langone Health. She shares her perspective on colon cancer screening in the U.S. and ways to improve adherence. Screening Challenges Colon cancer screening is a proven strategy to reduce associated deaths. Why aren’t screening levels higher? Dr. Shaukat: It’s a question we constantly ask. Although screening rates have increased over the past 15-20 years, as a nation we’re still at only about 60 percent adherence in eligible adults. Ideally, we’d be at 100 percent, or 80 percent at minimum as recommended by the National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable There are many known racial and ethnic disparities to screening in certain populations, due to lack of healthcare access in general. The pandemic presented another setback, with delays in routine and elective care. In addition, the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) and other recommending organizations recently updated their screening guidelines, lowering the age for initial screening from 50 to 45 in individuals at average risk for colon cancer. For individuals with a family history of colorectal cancer, screening will likely be initiated at age 40. So we’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients “We’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients Beyond Colonoscopy What are some emerging alternatives to colonoscopy for screening, and how are they beneficial? Colonoscopy has a proven track record in catching cancer at its earliest stage. But at the population level we don’t have the resources, infrastructure, or social supports to reach every eligible patient with colonoscopy. One alternative is fecal immunochemical testing, a stool-based screening test with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. This approach can be completed at home, so it removes the barrier of meeting with a primary care physician, then a specialist to schedule a colonoscopy. There is also the colon capsule, a pill that contains a small camera able to capture 32 image frames per second as it passes through the colon. The images are uploaded to a transmitter on a patient-worn belt, then read by the gastroenterologist who is looking for polyps that would indicate for colonoscopy. That test is expected to be available for home use in the near future. Additionally, I am principal investigator of a large examining the efficacy of a blood-based test in identifying biomarkers of colon cancer such as cell-free DNA. The intent is to combine this test with artificial intelligence to pinpoint which patients should go on to get a colonoscopy, versus lower-risk patients who can repeat the test in a year or two. This could change the landscape of screening if it’s incorporated in routine primary care labs. From a population health standpoint, what is needed to bring these new screening options to patients? One of my research initiatives is in partnership with our community-based Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, which over several decades have become one of the nation’s largest networks of Federally Qualified Health Centers. There, we have a centralized opportunity to expand screening into the community, by working with center leaders to review their colorectal cancer screening programs and determine how case management can be enhanced. The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations. The takeaway should be that any colon cancer screening is better than none at all. “The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations.” A Look Forward Will these new screening technologies and broader eligibility guidelines be enough to overcome our significant disparities in access and utilization, or is more action needed? I would like to see us organize screening programs to systematically identify and complete the screening cascade not just for individuals our own providers care for, but for the population in New York City at large. This will likely require collaborative efforts in conjunction with other healthcare systems and the state health department. In the future, we will likely have an expanded menu of screening test options, and healthcare systems will need to decide what to offer. The diagnostic accuracy and performance characteristics of the individual tests will dictate adoption. For most average-risk individuals—particularly those who’ve had a normal colonoscopy—a blood-, stool-, or capsule-based test may be the right balance of benefit and risk, providing information to inform clinicians’ use of colonoscopy if polyps need to be removed or other lesions are found. This will bring more individuals to colonoscopy who truly need it. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Laura Balcer, MD , is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology . An internationally renowned researcher and author of more than 350 publications, Dr. Balcer is editor-in-chief of the . Here, Dr. Balcer discusses her perspectives on advancements in the field and where neuro-ophthalmology is heading. You’ve been appointed editor-in-chief of the . From the research the journal is publishing and the work you and your colleagues are doing at NYU Langone Health, what is on the forefront for the field? Dr. Balcer: There is very exciting work happening in Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative diseases. Expanded applications of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and other vision-based diagnostic tools are providing new insights into the effects of these disorders on the eye and visual pathway. Some of the types of tests we are investigating, such as rapid picture-naming, or mobile universal lexicon evaluation system (MULES) and rapid number-naming, or staggered uneven number (SUN), have been around for over 80 years, and can potentially help to predict disease progression. Here at NYU Langone, we are leading collaborative sub-studies of clinical trials that will use OCT, as well as MULES and SUN, to identify markers for Alzheimer’s . Additionally, we have expanded the applications of OCT and of low-contrast letter acuity (eye charts with gray letters on a white background) to the evaluation of other conditions, such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and suspected or concussion in athletes. There is much research being done on COVID-19 and its impact on the central nervous system . Researchers have been evaluating the accelerated use of tele-neuro-ophthalmology over the last two years and how it will impact future neurology and ophthalmology practice. OCT as a Diagnostic Tool in MS You have made significant breakthroughs in the study and early treatment of MS. How is OCT being used as a tool for diagnosing this neurological disorder? We think physical changes in the visual system may be structural markers for neurological disease. Because OCT is non-invasive and relatively easy to use, we can now image structures in the eye that reflect what is going on in the rest of the visual system and potentially in the brain overall. OCT captures images and quantitative thicknesses in the optic nerve head, the retinal nerve fiber layer (axons), and cellular layers of the macula. In MS, the higher resolution of OCT scans may be better able to detect both asymptomatic and symptomatic optic nerve lesions. The optic nerve, despite many patients having inflammation of this structure as a first clinical event in MS, is not yet included as a lesion site in the diagnostic criteria for MS. We are working to change that, with worldwide collaborations and investigations with ocular imaging teams right here at NYU Langone that pioneered OCT. In 2018, we conducted a study that established a threshold for inter-eye differences in degrees of retinal nerve fiber layer and macular thinning that signals a patient has had acute optic neuritis. These inter-eye difference thresholds measured by OCT will be complementary to magnetic resonance imaging in identifying optic nerve lesions. This investigation led to an international, multisite study of 1,530 patients with MS that confirmed the inter-eye difference thresholds for the identification of an optic nerve lesion within a larger and more diverse study cohort. As part of our ongoing MS research, we recently published a study using the world’s largest MS database which demonstrates that early treatment with MS therapies is associated with lower risk of conversion to MS and improved neurological/visual function in patients with optic neuritis. Vision Testing and Cognitive Decline In another emerging research area, what can OCT tell us about CTE and concussion? Are there other new diagnostic tools? In individuals with a history of repetitive head traumas, such as contact sport athletes, the goal is to determine whether the visual pathway can serve as a potential living biomarker for CTE or cognitive decline among those who have a history of contact sports exposure. NYU Langone is one of four study sites for an NIH-funded investigation led by researchers at Boston University to develop criteria for traumatic encephalopathy syndrome—a potential phenotype in living persons at risk for CTE. In a partnership with NYU Langone’s , we are involved in ongoing research on the use of the MULES and SUN tests. These tests, under investigation as research paper/pencil or as part of a research tablet application, were developed at NYU Langone and have shown worse time scores among athletes with concussion on the sideline in the setting of more chronic concussion, and in patients with MS, mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and long-haul symptoms of COVID-19. The MULES, SUN and other rapid automatized naming tasks likely require different brain pathways and networks for visual processing, visual memory, language, and eye movements. Broadening the Field’s Impact Any closing thoughts as you enter this next chapter in your career? We are excited to be neuro-ophthalmologists, since we have learned that vision is a potential avenue to measuring disease and outcomes in areas with both an established repertoire of clinical trials and treatment, and for those fields that are just starting to have effective therapies. The teams at NYU Langone are incredibly collaborative and supportive. We are making tremendous progress in the evaluation and treatment of our patients through the capacity to share knowledge and advancements within and beyond our field. We are grateful to our very knowledgeable and innovative colleagues in neuroradiology, ophthalmology, neuropathology and other specialties. We are also delighted to continue to mentor through our Patient-Oriented Research Curriculum for residents, and to teach trainees about the fundamentals of clinical research. And of course, the impact of the pandemic on neurological training has been an important opportunity to teach our colleagues in neurology how to pivot under circumstances of adversity. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurologists joined international colleagues in Boston, April 22–27. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch A patient diagnosed with the rare movement disorder receives long-awaited and sustained relief with botulinum toxin. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression Landmark Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) expands to include thousands more participants. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease By asking the deceptively simple question of how human cells use oxygen, NYU Langone Health researchers have discovered a previously unknown metabolite and the enzyme that makes it. Tracing that enzymatic pathway has led to an investigation of potential cures for a rare but deadly neurodevelopmental disorder and a new target for hard-to-treat malignancies like pancreatic and brain cancers. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort,” says radiation oncologist Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD . “That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” Discovery of a New Metabolic Pathway Dr. Pacold began studying the role of oxygen in cancer cells because they’re easy to grow and manipulate and because low oxygen levels can drive cancer progression. Some pancreatic and brain cancers not only survive but actually thrive in hypoxic conditions, he notes. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort. That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” To better understand the cellular role of oxygen, Robert Banh, PhD , a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Pacold’s lab and now an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology, used the isotope oxygen-18 to track how the element gets incorporated into molecules. Although some of the oxygen-labeled molecules were expected, roughly one-fourth were previously unknown in mammalian cells. One metabolite in particular, abbreviated 4-HMA, incorporated more of the labeled oxygen than any other molecule in the cell. The lab then identified the enzyme that makes it, called HPDL. Dr. Banh discovered that the oxygen-using enzyme is a critical catalyst for a previously undescribed metabolic pathway in mammals, which starts with the production of 4-HMA and ends with the synthesis of part of the powerful antioxidant (and popular supplement) coenzyme Q10. An Unexpected Disease Application At the same time, other research groups were puzzling over the first reports of pediatric patients carrying variants in the gene encoding the HPDL enzyme. These variants have been closely associated with a rare, progressive neurodevelopmental disorder marked by seizures, leg stiffness, rigid and abnormal body movements, and profound neurodevelopmental delay. To study the disease, two research groups created mice strains lacking the HPDL enzyme and observed similar neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Dr. Pacold’s team is now investigating if coenzyme Q10 can make up for missing or deficient HPDL and help treat this disorder. If the intervention proves effective in mice, Dr. Pacold hopes to collaborate with clinicians to evaluate whether a coenzyme Q10–based therapy can reduce symptoms in children with the disease. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off.” “Even if we’re able to only treat some of these patients with this nasty neurodevelopmental disease, I’d be very happy,” he says. Because doctors haven’t known to look for it until recently, he adds, the disease could be more prevalent than anyone has suspected. A Quest to Turn Off Cancer While one part of the research group is focusing on the neurodevelopmental disease application, another part is investigating how to turn off the HPDL enzyme. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off,” Dr. Pacold says. Although urging caution about whether the benefits seen in laboratory models of cancer could be replicated in humans, an initial screen suggests that some compounds can indeed inhibit the enzyme—potentially opening the door to a cancer treatment as well. “We all, I think, have this dream of being able to do something that moves the needle for patients,” Dr. Pacold says. “But we didn’t go into this research deliberately setting out to do this.” By understanding a biological process at a more fundamental level, though, the added knowledge of basic mechanisms could have far more implications for treating diseases than anyone imagined. “There may be a lot more to this story,” he says. Dr. Pacold has equity with Raze Therapeutics, has received grant funding from Novocure, and is a consultant for Leal Therapeutics and Promedigen. Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of basic science research for the department. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment As co-director of the , is working to shed light on the predictors of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) progression using clinical and translational biomarkers, in order to personalize the care given to IBD patients. What drives the well-documented variation in quality of care for patients with IBD, including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis? Dr. Hudesman: IBD impacts the gastrointestinal tract along with many other parts of the body including the joints and skin. Many people with IBD can have associated malnutrition, chronic pain, fatigue, and poor sleep quality that can negatively impact their quality of life. Yet, it is rare to receive the level of multidisciplinary care we can offer in a center like ours, which includes an IBD specialist, a nutritionist, and a psychologist; plus a rheumatologist and a dermatologist to manage extraintestinal symptoms; nurses and mid-level providers to help manage medications; and even a pharmacy team to navigate insurance considerations. Psychological care is critical. Anxiety and depression are common co-morbidities. A solo GI practice doesn’t necessarily have a psychologist, and many mental health providers don’t accept insurance. While our center provides behavioral therapy and treatment as part of the multidisciplinary model, this is not widely available. “By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes.” How does your care model benefit hospitalized patients, in particular? Many patients with IBD do need to be admitted to the hospital—which can impact short- and long-term outcomes. The idea behind our own work in developing a dedicated, multidisciplinary inpatient IBD service is that including GI specialists, a colorectal surgeon, ostomy nurse, and an entire team specializing in IBD care can help improve outcomes for hospitalized patients. We have studied the impact of a dedicated inpatient IBD service. In one recent study, we assessed the impact of our dedicated IBD service on important quality measures such as Clostridiodes difficile stool testing, VTE [venous thromboembolism] prophylaxis administration, and opiate avoidance. In addition to finding statistically significant improvements in the inpatient measures, we identified improvements in post-discharge rates of ED visits and hospital readmissions. Forecasting Risk of Complications What other research is the center leading toward the goal of preventing, or at least reducing, hospitalizations? We’re working to stratify patients by risk factors and symptoms to predict their clinical course. Around a third of hospitalized patients with IBD require salvage therapy or surgery, and about 40 percent experience a longer length of stay. But we don’t have a method to predict whether admitted patients will experience adverse outcomes. We recently published a scoring index that can be used to assess which patients who present in the ED are at risk for complications. The hope is that this prognostic information can guide management of hospitalized patients with IBD. Treatment Beyond the GI Tract The center is also researching extraintestinal manifestations of IBD. What are those manifestations, and how does their treatment support care? Manifestations beyond the GI tract, which impact up to half of patients, can happen virtually anywhere—the joints, skin, eyes, liver, biliary tract, and lungs. Joint manifestations are most common, especially in Crohn’s disease, and tend to go undiagnosed until they present more severe symptoms such as back pain and joint damage. Certain treatment options have more systemic benefits, making them more efficacious if we can identify those patients who have both intestinal and extraintestinal symptoms. For example, we recently completed a study indicating that magnetic resonance enterography used to assess patients with Crohn’s disease can allow clinicians to evaluate for sacroiliitis —and potentially adapt treatment before this manifestation causes more significant problems. What promising future treatments are you investigating for IBD? We are working to further personalize treatment based on disease phenotype. For example, we’ve examined the characteristics of patients with IBD and concurrent psoriasis (PsO) or psoriatic arthritis (PsA)—all conditions characterized by dysregulation of the immune system. Evidence suggests that these conditions share a common genetic pathway, and that the presence of one increases the risk of developing another. Our study revealed that patients with IBD alone may have a less severe disease phenotype than those with IBD and PsO/PsA overlap, and that there may be an underlying genetic component behind that overlap. We expect such insights to help us customize treatment. By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A novel prediction model has the potential to identify individuals at differential relative and absolute risk for early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC), according to a Journal of the National Cancer Institute The model incorporates an environmental risk score (ERS), including 16 lifestyle and environmental factors, and a polygenic risk score (PRS) of 141 common variants. The combined score, a number between 0 and 1, may contribute towards identifying high-risk populations that may benefit from personalized preventive interventions for early-onset CRC. “Concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted.” “As screening guidelines lower the recommended age of screening initiation for CRC, concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted,” says study co-senior investigator , a professor of population health and environmental medicine. Constructing the Model The researchers used data from 13 population-based studies, which included 3,486 early-onset and 3,890 control cases under the age of 50 years, to construct the risk prediction models. Relative and absolute risks for early-onset CRC were evaluated according to the ERS and PRS. The team found that increasing values of ERS and PRS were associated with increasing relative risks for early-onset CRC (odds ratios, 1.14 and 1.59, respectively; area under the curve, 0.631). Based on absolute risks, 26 excess cases per 10,000 men and 21 per 10,000 women would be expected among those scoring at the 90th percentile for both risk scores. Leveraging the Insights “This study is the first to our knowledge to implement a risk score integrating lifestyle, environmental, and genetic factors in early-onset CRC, which complements similar efforts for cohorts consisting predominantly of late-onset disease,” Dr. Hayes says. While these findings are encouraging, Dr. Hayes cautions that his team’s tool is not yet ready for clinical use. Further testing is needed in larger trials to refine the model, and to demonstrate how the scoring system could be applied in clinical settings. “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people.” “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people to gauge when they, based on their own genetic and personal health factors, need to start routine screening for colorectal cancer.” Other researchers involved in the study are lead investigator Alexei Archambault at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and NYU Langone co-investigators Anne Zeliniuch-Jacquotte, MD Funding support for the scoring study was provided by National Institutes of Health grants R03CA21577502, U01CA164930, R01CA201407, P30CA016087, P30CA015704, P20CA252728, and T32HS026120. Population Health, Environmental Medicine Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD, is a professor of population health and environmental medicine. His research focuses on cancer epidemiology, including the development of predictive algorithms for colorectal cancer screening. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD , an expert in neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology, specializes in the treatment of paraneoplastic syndromes, immune responses to cancer that impact the nervous system. While serious, treatments are available, and because symptoms can develop two to three years before the underlying malignancy manifests, some cases provide an opportunity for early detection though periodic cancer screening. Given their varied presentations, awareness is key to ensuring patients receive early treatment and prevent long-term disability from the attack on the nervous system. Here, Dr. Prieto, director of the neuro-oncology program at NYU Langone’s , discusses her framework for recognizing and treating these syndromes. She also shares her vision for applying neuroimmuno-oncology to advance treatments for challenging brain and spine tumors. No Textbook Case Reflecting on the many patients you have treated with paraneoplastic syndromes, what are the most common clinical features? Dr. Prieto: There’s certainly no textbook case. Patients present with a wide variety of symptoms including neuropsychiatric symptoms, seizures, rapid cognitive decline, and neuropathies. Autonomic dysfunction, such as orthostatic hypotension and gastric motility symptoms, are also common. Oftentimes symptoms are blamed on medications or age. Timely Intervention Is Critical What steps do you take for diagnosis and treatment when you suspect a patient has paraneoplastic syndrome? Antibody panels for blood and cerebrospinal fluid are promptly ordered to provide information on the prognosis and guide the potential best treatment. These tests can take up to two to three weeks to come back. If we wait for results, patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. Therefore, we treat upfront to prevent further damage. In most cases, time is of the essence. “Patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. In most cases, time is of the essence.” First, we give high-dose steroids. If steroids don’t work, then plasma exchange is performed to remove the antibodies. If the patient doesn’t respond to plasma exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin can be given. We escalate the treatment with other medications if the patient keeps deteriorating. Following a good response, maintenance treatment with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies is provided to prevent the creation of new antibodies. Sometimes an underlying cancer—the root of the problem—is found at the time of initial presentation. While the person is treated for the paraneoplastic condition, treating the malignancy results in halting the progression of the neurological decline. Treat and Screen For patients with no detectable cancer, for whom paraneoplastic syndrome is the first sign of possible malignancy, what is your approach to treatment? If cancer is not detected upon initial presentation, we keep the patient on maintenance immunotherapy for about two years. This keeps the patient stable while we continue searching for the source. “A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system.” Young patients that have antibodies typically seen with paraneoplastic syndromes are less likely to have an underlying malignancy. Nevertheless, we still monitor closely. For example, in NMDA receptor antibody encephalitis, often linked with a benign ovarian teratoma, surgical resection of the tumor halts symptom progression and initiates a recovery process, most of the time with good success. Healing from neurological paraneoplastic syndromes can take months to years. Patience and early rehabilitation are fundamental. Complications of Immunotherapy You also see referrals for complications of immunotherapy that manifest as paraneoplastic syndrome or new onset of autoimmune disease but are not necessarily driven by cancer. Can you tell us about these cases? Certain cancer-directed immunotherapies, like checkpoint inhibitors, can trigger the production of antibodies that can cause a variety of autoimmune conditions. My colleagues often refer patients to my clinic who present with new neurological symptoms that lack a clear explanation, and we perform a meticulous evaluation to determine the optimal treatment. Checkpoint inhibitor autoimmune syndromes tend to have a great response to steroids, with the challenge that if steroids are required for a prolonged period, the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy can be reduced. Frequent communication among care teams is crucial for proper treatment planning. Neuroimmuno-Oncology: The Leading Edge What other conditions are you focusing on in the areas of neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology? A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system. While current cancer-directed immunotherapies have proven to successfully treat many cancers, these treatments are not very effective in primary brain tumors. I’m proud to be part of the amazing team at the , and with their support we are exploring different ways to target the immune system to treat glioblastoma and other brain tumors. Currently, our neuro-oncology program is participating on a large clinical trial offering a vaccine against glioblastoma cell components . Additional approaches to use the immune system in the treatment of these aggressive tumors will be available at NYU Langone in the near future. Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and neurology and interim director of the neuro-oncology program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She specializes in the treatment of brain and spine tumors as well as complications that arise from cancer immunotherapy and the immune system’s response to cancer. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD, and John G. Golfinos, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , previously served as president of the North American Skull Base Society (NASBS). In February 2022 at the society’s 31st annual meeting , Dr. Golfinos co-led a discussion on the critical importance of teamwork in skull base surgery with , chair of the Department of Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery. Here, Drs. Golfinos and Roland discuss some of the insights and experiences they shared at the annual meeting. Dr. Golfinos, as president of the NASBS, you’re tasked with determining the focus of the annual meeting. Why did you choose teamwork as a content area this year? Dr. Golfinos: Skull base surgery is uniquely challenging, so anything that makes it better and easier is a win. The goal is always the best possible outcomes for our patients. For nearly 30 years, Dr. Roland and I have collaborated for the sake of our patients, and we’ve seen that teamwork is more than a buzzword—it is a focused effort that has helped us consistently raise that bar. NASBS represents a diverse group of specialties—from neurosurgeons and ENT surgeons to oncologists, rhinologists, and head and neck specialists—so teamwork is a fitting topic to highlight. With so many specialists involved in skull base surgery, one might expect teamwork to “just happen” naturally. It does not. There are surgeons who approach things by themselves, only in certain ways, believing they don’t need anybody else. They may not grasp the value of a well-integrated team that communicates freely. Dr. Golfinos and I want to highlight how outcomes can be measurably improved when you prioritize teamwork. In our model, every member of the team is as important as another. “There are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link.” Connecting Teamwork and Outcomes Can you share specific examples of the ways teamwork has contributed to better outcomes? Dr. Golfinos : It wasn’t long ago when a patient with a large acoustic neuroma might expect to live with hearing loss and facial paralysis. That’s rare these days, because our fields—neurosurgery and otolaryngology—have come together to solve these problems. We can offer solutions to improve hearing like cochlear implants and auditory brain stem implants. When you involve everyone from audiologists and nurses to anesthesiologists and neurology specialists, you can prevent hearing loss or facial nerve dysfunction. Dr. Roland : At NYU Langone Health, we’ve worked with the same scrub nurses and circulating nurses for nearly 20 years. We have superb physiologic monitoring capacity for real-time feedback during surgery. That seamlessness is important—otherwise, an operation will take twice as long. They know what we need. And, in a conscious fashion, we’ve empowered them to speak up and say, “Why aren’t you using this? Doctor, there might be an issue. Or, are you going to use this?” This is not always how it is done. One of our former NYU Langone Health fellows recently brought her team from another institution to watch us perform a pediatric brain stem implant, because she wanted them to observe how we implement teamwork to carefully orchestrate the necessary sequence of events. How has technology made teamwork easier? : Certainly, the ability to constantly communicate and see things digitally allows us to plan more readily. We can instantly see the anatomy we’re working with and rehearse the approach. The days are gone when someone would have to carry large films from my office to Dr. Roland’s office for an hour-long meeting. Now we collaborate digitally on surgical planning. That level of communication between a neurosurgeon and a neurotologist couldn’t have happened before. In the operating room, we have machine learning that can tell us histologically whether something is cancerous right away, which facilitates more real-time team planning. Advanced monitoring is another input allowing the team to determine how to rescue the nerves held hostage by a given tumor. Sharing Lessons With Peers What will be some of your key messages for the annual meeting? : We’ll present several scenarios that illustrate the concept of team. And, we plan to bring in a very compelling speaker from outside the world of medicine. Whether in surgery or other high-pressure fields like the military, there are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link. And, when you combine unique talents, you end up with greater talent than the sum of each individual. Another is that everyone must leave their ego at the door and keep their mind open to feedback. “An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission.” : An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission. And, again, it’s important to empower everyone on the team, from scrub nurses to monitoring staff. Everyone must be free to speak up if something doesn’t seem right. Those have been important aspects of our work in building a top skull base surgery program. We hope they will encourage other surgical teams to collaborate toward better outcomes. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Metastases Incidence in NSCLC Post-Therapy In a study of metastases incidence in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) post-therapy, median time to new brain metastases off systemic therapy was 16 months, and no additional new tumors were found 22 months after patients stopped therapy. ADAPTED FROM: Neurooncol Adv 2021;3(Suppl 3):iii22. The probability of developing an additional new tumor after 6 months was 26 percent, after 12 months was 40 percent, and after 18 months was 53 percent. ADAPTED FROM: Patients with mutations in RAS or RTK pathways (e.g., KRAS and EGFR) were more likely to develop new tumors. Patients who discontinued therapy due to intolerance or progression of the disease were also more likely to develop new tumors. ADAPTED FROM: A recent study conducted at NYU Langone Health, , has revealed that the rate of new brain metastases from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients off systemic therapy decreases over time and is uncommon two years after discontinuation of systemic cancer therapy. In addition, the researchers found that patients who had RAS or receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) pathway mutations or who stopped treatment due to adverse events had a higher rate of developing new metastases. The findings surprised the research team, led by Dennis London, MD , a resident in neurosurgery at NYU Langone. “Patients who discontinued therapy due to a treatment response had a median time to new brain metastases of 16 months—much longer than we expected,” says Dr. London. He further explained that these data suggest that the RAS pathway is an aggressive driver of brain metastases in NSCLC, but additional studies with larger sample sizes will be needed to validate this hypothesis. Based on these findings, Dr. London recommended that oncologists use caution when choosing to discontinue therapy in patients with RAS pathway mutations. “These data are very encouraging for lung cancer patients with brain metastases,” Dr. London explains. “Achieving long-term neurological control of brain metastases is possible after treatment with new systemic therapies.” “This is the first study to report the incidence of new brain tumors for patients who can stop their cancer therapy,” says , a professor of neurosurgery and radiation oncology. “The good news is that for some patients, over years of assessment, new brain tumors were uncommon.” Dennis London, MD, is a neurosurgery resident. His research interests include understanding the function of neural circuitry in action planning and decision-making and applying this knowledge to the treatment of neurologic diseases through neuromodulation; stereotactic and functional neurosurgery; neuro-oncology; and data science. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy L-R: Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant; surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm; surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. A Rare, Yet Catastrophic Injury A pediatric patient with Erb’s palsy experienced a remarkable recovery after specialists at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform early microsurgical reconstruction and intensive occupational therapy. The patient first presented to the pediatric orthopedic hand surgery clinic at for evaluation of her right upper extremity by Andrew E. Price, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “Brachial plexus birth injuries require a team of highly specialized experts, including surgeons and occupational therapists,” says Dr. Price. “After birth, these injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” “These injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” Despite conservative management, the patient failed to regain biceps function at 6 months of age. The best treatment was determined to be brachial plexus neurolysis with double fascicular nerve transfer. Dr. Price, Dr. Hacquebord, and their team also injected botulinum toxin into several antagonist muscle groups during the procedure to improve shoulder and elbow motion. “The prognosis of Erb’s palsy depends on several factors including the extent of the injury, size and severity of the post-ganglion tears, speed of recovery, and quality of initial treatment,” says pediatric occupational therapist Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L . “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” Upon discharge, the patient continued outpatient rehabilitation with . Two years after surgery, the patient is doing extremely well, with sustained improvements in several clinical and functional outcomes. Preoperative Diagnosis: Injury of Right Brachial Plexus Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant. The patient’s right upper extremity was held with shoulder internally rotated, elbow extended, wrist flexed, and forearm pronated. She demonstrated excellent triceps strength but had no biceps function. Moreover, she did not exhibit shoulder elevation or active wrist extension. The patient was referred for occupational therapy and splinting, with surgery ultimately deemed necessary. A Successful Surgery Surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm. Upon exploration of the right brachial plexus, the C6 nerve was found to have significant scarring and lack of stimulus conduction. There was contractility of the deltoid with stimulation at 2 mA of C5 proximally, but no contractility with stimulation of C6. The team proceeded with the procedure that included neurolysis of the brachial plexus and double fascicular nerve transfer. Long-Term Outpatient Rehabilitation Surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. At 2-year follow-up, the patient demonstrated significant improvement. She had regained shoulder elevation to above 130 degrees, full passive shoulder external rotation, negative clarion, active elbow flexion, supination to 10 degrees, no elbow flexion contracture, and some active extension of the wrist. Orthopedic Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Andrew E. Price, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. His research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, neuromuscular conditions, and pediatric trauma. Pediatric Occupational Therapy Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L, is supervisor of pediatric occupational therapy at Rusk Rehabilitation. Her research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, outcomes research, aquatic therapy, and the use of modified constraint-induced movement therapy. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Surgeon’s view using a need arthroscope (top row) versus a conventional arthroscope (bottom row) for evaluation of carpal pathology. A study of 20 patients led by NYU Langone Health researchers affirms that needle arthroscopy matches the diagnostic accuracy of conventional wrist arthroscopy. The study was presented at a recent meeting of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand. “There was never a case where we couldn’t see everything we needed to see, which was a surprising finding,” says orthopedic surgeon and study lead author Nader Paksima, DO, MPH . “I thought that was going to be one of the limitations of the needle scope when we first started out the study.” Although the image quality of the smaller scope is marginally lower, Dr. Paksima says it still provides full diagnostic capabilities. “Once you get used to it, and our study proves it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope,” he says. “Once you get used to it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope.” The smaller scope, in fact, provides better access to the mid-carpal joint and better visualization of the scapho-trapezium-trapezoid and carpometacarpal joints. “Cartilage damage to the mid-carpal joint is minimized by the needle scope because it’s much smaller and much easier to insert than the standard arthroscope,” he adds. Setting Up a Comparison Since the 1980s, surgeons have used a 2.7-mm wrist arthroscope to evaluate, diagnose, and treat a range of carpal pathologies, especially ligament and cartilage injuries not easily seen on X-ray. Wrist arthroscopy offers direct visualization of the joint surface, articular cartilage, ligaments, and any inflammation such as synovitis. The newer 1.9-mm needle arthroscope with a flexible tip provides an even less invasive option, yet until this study, it had not been specifically assessed for its carpal pathology evaluation and diagnostic capabilities as compared to conventional arthroscopy. For the new study, Dr. Paksima and colleagues at NYU Langone’s used the needle arthroscope to evaluate each patient for synovitis, cartilage damage, and integrity of the volar, scapholunate, and lunotriquetral ligaments, as well as the triangular fibrocartilage complex. After completing a survey regarding the visualization and diagnosis, the surgeons performed a conventional wrist arthroscopy, followed by a second survey to compare the two techniques. As part of the evaluation, they also compared how well the scopes visualized ten landmarks within the wrist joint. A Less Invasive Alternative Because the bigger camera on the 2.7-mm scope provides a somewhat larger and better picture, switching to the smaller camera requires an adjustment period, Dr. Paksima says. The typical 30-degree angled view afforded by a standard arthroscope allows surgeons to rotate the camera and see a relatively large surface area. By contrast, the needle scope provides an end-on view, akin to looking through a telescope. The needle scope’s flexible tip, however, allows for easy manipulation of the camera to widen the field of view and the surgeons reported no difference in the ease of use. “It works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room.” “I was concerned that with an end-on view, I wouldn’t be able to look around the corner within joints,” Dr. Paksima says. “What we found in our study was that we were able to see everything, even with a needle scope, and that may have to do with the flexibility of the tip because it can bend around things.” Based on the encouraging results, Dr. Paksima has switched to using the needle arthroscope on its own for patients who present with carpal pathologies. “What’s exciting is that it works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room,” he says. For a ligament sprain, for example, he could take a look under local anesthetic, make a diagnosis, and provide treatment—all in the same setting. “I’m not doing that yet, but that’s what I’m working toward,” he says. Hand and Wrist Surgery Nader Paksima, DO, MPH, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. He specializes in hand and wrist surgery and in researching nerve injuries and wrist fractures. Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Scott Rickert, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the . Also an associate professor of otolaryngology, pediatrics, and plastic surgery, his subspecialty interests include conditions affecting the pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing. Dr. Rickert was recently elected president of the Aerodigestive Society , a multidisciplinary group committed to advancing research, clinical care, and public health for patients with complex aerodigestive disease. Here, he discusses emerging topics in diagnosis and treatment, and the rewards and challenges of treating children with highly complex cases. The Aerodigestive Center treats patients with a combination of multiple and interrelated airway conditions. As an otolaryngologist, what drew you to treating these complex pediatric cases? Dr. Rickert: I came to pediatric otolaryngology prepared to be involved in all procedures but became focused on the aerodigestive kids because they’re some of the patients that need the most help. They are often undertreated and kept at their baseline without comprehensive care. They’re also among the most interesting patients to me. A lot of these kids have chronic conditions, so you have long-lasting relationships with them. We see many of our patients become young adults. Helping them thrive not only impacts their lives, but it has a big impact on their families and their families’ lives. Coordinating Complex Care Aerodigestive care is, by definition, a multispecialty model. What are some of the benefits and challenges of this in day-to-day medical practice? Aerodigestive cases require close coordination. Some of these patients are just airway patients and some are primarily GI. The multiple areas of concern allow for cross-pollination of ideas and collaboration. Eighty percent of these patients have need for a speech or voice therapist, so it’s a great benefit to have that perspective. Our team holds weekly care meetings in the ENT office, where all our equipment is located. Despite a potential financial challenge to maintaining a central location—how can you have four doctors in one place when you could have them in different offices?—when you evaluate the model and all the care these patients get, it’s actually quite efficient to have all the doctors together. And it’s better for the kids and their families. Learning from Other Programs You’ve just been elected president of the Aerodigestive Society. What are some of your objectives for that group? The society started out about 10 years ago to integrate all the different programs in the United States for sharing information, conducting multi-institutional research, and establishing care guidelines. “I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them.” As president, I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them. For instance, one hospital may not have pediatric GI, but they may collaborate with another hospital in their area that does. We have a great perspective on how to build a team here in New York with our large volume, but it’s interesting to see how people in Cincinnati, or Argentina, are modeling aerodigestive care. Always, when you have complex cases, it’s helpful to talk with other people who treat similar cases to see whether their approaches are different or better. COVID-19 has had many implications for patients who need complex care . We’ve been trying to keep aerodigestive care in the forefront. Imaging Airway Dynamics Are there any new equipment or therapeutic innovations on the horizon? We’ve already been using cutting-edge imaging to understand what’s going on in the lungs and video swallow tests to confirm what a speech/language pathologist is seeing. Today, we are doing sleep endoscopies because a lot of these kids have sleep and breathing problems. It’s a new, innovative technique to understand what their airway does when they’re sleeping. We are developing simulation software to understand flow dynamics in the airway, not only in breathing, but also swallowing. Plus, we are creating 3D models of the airway using 3D printing. This allows us to plan out a surgery virtually so when we’re doing it in real life, we can be more efficient. We’re in the planning stages of some studies to better understand cough. And of course, we’re always striving to innovate care in prescribing medicines for those kids who have chronic issues. Rewards of Collaboration What would you say to get a medical trainee interested in this field? It’s a wonderful place to be because of the collaborative nature of the work. We’re sharing all the time. If you want to be involved, whether you’re a pulmonologist, a GI specialist, or an ENT, there’s a small dynamic group that’s always looking forward. Not only does this impact your patients, but anything that’s being done locally impacts kids across the country. This is what you go into medicine for—to make a difference in people’s lives! Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Single-cell RNA sequencing of young and aged mouse hindlimbs points to an abnormal increase in Notch signaling in skeletal stem cells as playing a central role in age-related bone loss, according to a recent report in Bone Research Findings from the study suggest that interfering with the signaling pathway by targeting a protein called Ebf3/EBF3 has therapeutic potential in preserving skeletal integrity and preventing deterioration. “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration.” “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration,” says senior study author , an orthopedic surgeon at NYU Langone Health. The Bone-to-Fat Shift Bone is among the tissues that keep self-renewing pools of stem cells, called skeletal stem and progenitor cells (SSCPs), on hand into adulthood. SSCPs can mature into replacement cells that maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, with maturation following one of two paths: new bone-making cells called osteoblasts or fat-making cells called adipocytes. Past studies have shown a notable, gradual shift in the fate of SSCPs during aging. Instead of becoming osteoblasts, there is a tendency toward differentiation into adipocytes as SSCPs age. This alteration in cell fate leads to several consequences, including bone loss and increased adipose tissue within the bone marrow. Consequently, bones become weaker and more vulnerable to fractures. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential.” Currently, there are no therapeutics to rescue or maintain the bone-making function in aging SSPCs. Clarifying the mechanisms that trigger the bone-to-fat shift may serve to “prolong healthspan, preserve skeletal integrity, and enhance the efficiency of fracture healing in the aging population,” write the study authors. Notch Activity and Stem Cell Fate As reported in the new study, increased Notch pathway activity appears to shift SSCPs toward the fate that increases fatty degeneration of bone marrow. When the authors genetically engineered mice to lack Nicastrin, a core part of the Notch signaling pathway, SCCPs were redirected toward differentiation into osteoclasts, increasing bone formation “even beyond that of young mice,” write the authors. Other effects included a specific increase in trabecular bone formation, reduction in bone marrow adiposity, and enhanced regeneration, which the authors posit could curtail skeletal degeneration. Identifying a Potential Therapeutic Target Notably, Notch signaling, woven as it is into so many cellular pathways, is not a good target for drug therapy, Dr. Leucht stresses. Instead, his team identified Ebf3 as a promising potential therapeutic target, confirming that the transcription factor carries the Notch signal forward and is relatively restricted to being made in skeletal stem cells. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential. In future studies we hope to confirm the value of Ebf3 as a drug target in preventing osteoporosis,” says Dr. Leucht. Notch signaling is important to the development of many tissues in the womb but is then suppressed to enable healthy adult tissue function, Dr. Leucht adds. Diseases like cancer—and the aging process—are linked to the abnormal reactivation of developmental processes, where the genetic systems (heterochromatin) that block access to certain genes break down. Thus, the current study’s finding that Notch-related genes were abnormally upregulated could reveal disease mechanisms behind forms of deterioration seen in other tissues and organs. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair To study pain management, 99 patients participated in a trial evaluating buccal absorption of cannabidiol (CBD) for pain control following shoulder arthroscopy. Patients in the experimental group received CBD tablets 3 times a day for 14 days. Patients in the control group received placebo tablets, as well as 5/325 mg oxycodone/acetaminophen to be taken as needed, with instructions to eliminate as soon as possible. After rotator cuff repair, patients receiving CBD reported significant improvements compared to those receiving placebo. On postoperative day 1, patients receiving CBD reported better pain control levels, and on postoperative days 1 and 2 reported higher satisfaction with pain management. Patients receiving CBD outperformed placebo at all postoperative time points for pain and satisfaction, although not statistically significant, and no significant differences in opioid consumption were observed between the two groups. Using the visual analog scale for pain scores, on day 1, patients receiving placebo scored 5.7, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 5.1 and 3.9, respectively. On day 2, patients receiving placebo scored 5.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD both scored 4.7. On day 14, patients receiving placebo scored 2.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 2.0 and 1.1, respectively. Cannabidiol (CBD) significantly improves pain control and patient satisfaction in the immediate postoperative period after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a recent study in The American Journal of Sports Medicine . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also offers preliminary evidence that higher CBD doses may yield better outcomes. “CBD could be a powerful adjunct in postoperative care for patients with significant pain,” says , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program . Dr. Alaia is first author on the clinical study—one of the very first of its kind. “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery.” “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery,” says study co-author , a professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. “It’s all about trying to figure out how we can manage pain in a complete way.” Participants in the double-blind trial were randomly assigned to receive oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on their body weight) taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos that were identical in taste and appearance. All study participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take if needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in patients receiving CBD than in those taking the placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher among those receiving CBD on postoperative days one and two. Opioid consumption remained low in both groups, the study found. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction than those receiving 25 mg, a finding that the group is investigating in follow-up studies. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme.” A companion study found no negative impact of the CBD on the patients’ ability to heal after their rotator cuff repairs. A separate analysis of sports medicine orthopedic providers’ perceptions, though, revealed the need for more education on the effectiveness, potential applications, and safety profile of CBD. To better understand the drug’s potential effect in alleviating chronic pain, the researchers are now conducting a randomized, controlled trial of 50 mg of CBD on roughly 100 patients with moderate knee osteoarthritis. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme,” Dr. Alaia says. Disclosures: Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, Bodycad, and Arthrex. Dr. Jazrawi receives research support from Arthrex, Smith and Nephew and Depuy Mitek. He is on the medical advisory board for Lazurite. Michael J. Alaia, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and the co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. He specializes in sports medicine, joint preservation, and complex arthroscopic and open reconstruction of the knee and shoulder. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Renee L. Williams, MD. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Many endoscopists suffer work-related musculoskeletal injuries, beginning as early as fellowship training . To highlight this issue and prevent injuries that can interfere with an endoscopists’ career, a core curriculum for endoscopy ergonomics was recently published by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE). Renee L. Williams, MD , a co-author of the new curriculum and member of the ASGE training committee, says that weaving an awareness of ergonomic practices into early career training is key to their successful adoption and the development of injury-preventing muscle memory. “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures,” Dr. Williams says. “I always tell trainees, ‘If your hand is hurting after doing a few procedures, you may be doing something wrong and you need to change your technique.’” “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures.” Ergonomic Tips and Tricks Many of the skills or devices outlined in the new curriculum relate to making the workspace ergonomically sound. Dr. Williams stresses that monitors, which are commonly fixed to the wall, should ideally be adjustable so that users of varying heights can achieve a neutral body posture and reduce strain on their neck. In addition, cushioned floor mats are recommended to decrease strain while standing during procedures. Proper endoscopy technique is also a focus of the curriculum, including the “cigar-rolling” approach, which relies on the thumb and fingers to steer the endoscope rather than the wrist. “Use of a cigar-rolling technique to achieve torque is preferred as opposed to a fist grip, which can cause excessive angulation of the wrist joints,” wrote the authors.  “It’s not so much about speed,” Dr. Williams adds. “It’s about technique and making sure that you’re performing the procedure in a way that you’re not hurting yourself.” A newer tool—the angulation dial adapter—is recommended to better accommodate smaller hand sizes. “There are more female gastroenterologists on the horizon, and they may have smaller hands and maybe different heights,” Dr. Williams says. “You need to adapt this instrument, cause it’s not a one-size-fits-all.” The authors also point to the importance of support from institutional leadership to integrate ergonomics training and best practices system-wide to ensure their ultimate success. Making it a Habit With curriculum development being a main focus of the ASGE training committee, Dr. Williams says the group is always considering emerging topics that will be important to the next generation of endoscopists, including ergonomics. “I’ve known colleagues who have had minor injuries, where they just have some pain. But I’ve also had a few colleagues have surgery based on work-related injuries,” Dr. Williams says. For this reason, many endoscopists, including Dr. Williams, have own-occupation disability insurance based on their ability to perform endoscopy. Physicians should consult with the appropriate advisors to determine whether a similar policy would benefit their practice. When teaching fellows, Dr. Williams says she may pause to demonstrate or correct proper ergonomic techniques and encourages other mentors to do the same. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching,” she says. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching” Gastroenterology, Endoscopy Renee L. Williams, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Medicine, where she serves as associate chair for health equity and Director of the Saul J. Farber, MD, Program in Health Equity. Within gastroenterology, her interests include health disparities in colorectal cancer screening and medical education. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration In pursuit of a shared vision for precision cancer treatment, researchers harness innovation in imaging and radiotherapy. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting Our oncologists join international colleagues in Chicago, June 2–6. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Preclinical studies reveal mitophagy to be a key mechanism of BH3 mimetic resistance, marking a new target in AML. Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Orlando, Florida, April 14–19. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Illustration depicting four possible nerve connections utilized in the new multigraft facial reanimation approach. IMAGE: Andrew Lee, MD, artist. A Multiplex Approach to Facial Reanimation For patients with partial or total facial paralysis, surgeons at NYU Langone Health have developed a new approach to facial reanimation. The approach connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves to improve segmented movement. Traditionally, either the main trunk or a single division of the facial nerve is attached to a single nerve for reanimation, which can result in mass movement (synkinesis). This oversimplified approach does not account for the way the facial nerve divides and segments across five distinct facial areas, says Adam S. Jacobson, MD , chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery. “To me, it never made sense to graft the main facial nerve together and expect it to perform the same way, with signals reaching their rightful places.” Jacobson and colleagues including , chief of microsurgery, and , director of the Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, developed the multigraft technique to offer surgeons a more consistent, nuanced approach to facial reanimation. Says Dr. Levine, “We’re giving multiple inputs to the damaged nerves, so over time they start sequentially taking over and giving different levels of control to the segments of the face.” “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach.” Each harvested nerve is selected based upon the needs of each facial region, Dr. Levine adds. “For example, the ansa cervicalis offers tone to the vocal chords, so we’re using it in the eyes—an area where we wanted tone. For the midface division, we needed power, and looked to the masseteric nerve.” The new technique reduces mass facial movements which can have life-altering effects for patients. “Our technique offers an immediate solution rather than a wait-and-see approach or the traditional facial reanimation approach,” Dr. Jacobson says. “The sooner a nerve transfer surgery is performed, the better the functional outcomes.” Enhanced Segmented Movement via Multiple Grafts A patient demonstrating left facial paralysis. A new approach to facial reanimation developed by surgeons at NYU Langone Health connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves. The technique is applicable for patients with abnormal nerve growth, such as those with Bell’s palsy, or patients with nerve loss whether due to a degenerative condition or prior surgery. Here, a patient demonstrates left facial paralysis possibly due to a genicular ganglion hemangioma. Up to Four Distinct Nerve Connections The masseteric nerve is connected to the distal end of the midface division. The lower division of the facial nerve is connected to the hypoglossal nerve to animate the lower face. The ansa cervicalis is connected to the upper division of the face to give tone to the eye muscles. A cross-face nerve graft may be used to innervate the affected midface with input from the intact contralateral midface division. Rapid Functional Improvement Surgeon’s view during a nerve graft procedure. The nuanced reconstruction technique requires muscular transfer or transplant and takes longer than traditional facial reanimation techniques as each nerve is transferred and carefully grafted. However, surgeons have not observed significantly longer patient recovery times, with most patients experiencing some functional recovery 3–12 months after surgery. Facial Reanimation with Less Synkinesis A patient demonstrating segmented movement following multigraft facial reanimation to address left facial paralysis. Patients benefit from facial reinnervation that enables specialized movement, with less synkinesis than traditional single-graft techniques. Here, the patient who experienced left facial paralysis demonstrates segmented movement made possible by the multigraft technique. Follow-up photos were taken two years post-surgery. Head & Neck Surgery, Surgical Oncology Adam S. Jacobson, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery, and co-director of the Head and Neck Center. Plastic Surgery, Microsurgery Jamie P. Levine, MD, is an associate professor of plastic surgery and Chief of Microsurgery. His research and clinical interests include facial reconstructive surgery, mammaplasty, bloodless surgery, and abdominoplasty. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment Babak Givi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Sentinel node biopsy offers a less invasive alternative to cervical lymphadenectomy, or neck dissection, in oral cavity cancers. More traditional resection of tongue and other oral cavity tumors, which involves removing all surrounding lymph nodes, is often unnecessary in early stage disease and can carry complications such as nerve injury, fibrosis, and scarring. “We’ve known that as many as 70 to 80 percent of patients don’t need to have their lymph nodes removed, but because those other 20 to 30 percent of patients have very poor outcomes, it’s done out of an abundance of caution,” explains , a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers. Dr. Givi is the trial site principal investigator at NYU Langone Health for a multi-institutional randomized controlled trial examining the long-term cure rate of sentinel node biopsy compared to neck dissection. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” “My hope is that as we follow these patients, safety and effectiveness data will be convincing, so the minimal approach can be routinely adopted,” explains Dr. Givi. “We don’t need to take out 20 or 30 lymph nodes if removing the one or two at highest risk delivers the same information.” Advanced Imaging Key to Targeting Treatment Patients with early-stage tumors are first evaluated by PET scan to ensure there is no identifiable disease in the neck or beyond. If the paitent is cleared, the surgeon injects an advanced lymphocyte radiotracer designed to track lymph nodes around the tumor. Using high-precision three-dimensional (3D) single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) imaging, Elcin Zan, MD , a specialist in neuroradiology, follows the path of the tracer to the lymph nodes. She then fuses the CT images with nuclear medicine scans to provide a clear visualization of the most at-risk nodes. In the operating room, the surgeon removes the primary oral tumor, then uses a gamma counter to navigate precisely toward at-risk nodes. Only those nodes showing tracer activity are removed and examined. If the selected nodes show no evidence of metastasis, and no others show evidence of tracer uptake, the procedure concludes. Patients can return home the same day with only a tiny incision. “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy.” Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD “The sentinel node approach carries less surgical risk and our imaging is highly precise—eliminating the need to examine more lymph nodes or treat the nodes with radiotherapy out of caution,” explains , chief of head and neck surgery at and a member of the multidisciplinary team who perform the procedures. In addition to reducing treatment burden, the newer method’s precision offers insights about the interaction between oral tumors and lymph nodes. By revealing the metastatic pathways of certain tumors, the dynamic imaging demonstrates common patterns of oral cancers. “It’s become clear, for example, that tongue tumors rarely reach nodes beyond the upper neck area—yet we used to remove these nodes routinely,” notes Dr. Givi. Expanding Adoption: Research and Education The national study that Dr. Givi is helping to lead will follow indicators of long-term functional outcomes, such as fibrosis and muscle weakness near the surgical area, to confirm the benefits of sentinel node biopsy. Along with disease-free survival as a co-primary endpoint, the data will reveal whether the approach enables informed decision-making to spare some patients from the potential complications of elective node dissection. In addition to his ongoing research, Dr. Givi hopes his recent appointment as vice chair of education for the American Head and Neck Society will be a platform to help increase awareness about sentinel node biopsy. “Only a small number of eligible patients are offered this approach,” concludes Dr. Givi. “If more surgeons see how precise it is, and the positive outcomes it can deliver, more patients can benefit from it.” Babak Givi, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. He is a surgical oncologist specializing in head and neck cancers, and his research emphasizes quality of care and outcome of treatments. Alec E. Vaezi, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and chief of head and neck surgery at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive approaches for patients with oral and other head and neck cancers. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Immune T cells (purple) excluded from skin tumors, or melanoma (white), leak out through lymphatic vessels (green). Antigen-specific CD8 T cell accumulation in tumors is crucial for effective immunotherapy. Data indicate that lymphatic vessels and their transport function may impede this process under some conditions. Yet the mechanisms by which lymphatic vessels affect CD8 effector T cell function within the tumor microenvironment (TME) are not well characterized. Nature Immunology , a team led by NYU Langone Health and researchers clarified key aspects of these interactions in melanoma. The scientists also found a way to keep CD8 T cells from exiting cutaneous tumors—and showed that doing so in conjunction with immune checkpoint blockade could significantly decrease tumor growth. “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma.” Amanda W. Lund, PhD “Our work shows that preventing T cell egress can boost the efficacy of immunotherapy against melanoma,” says senior investigator , an associate professor of dermatology and pathology. Maria Steele, PhD, a former postdoctoral fellow in the , served as study lead investigator. Pinpointing the Role of Lymphatic Transport Previous research has shown that CD8 T cells (among other types) can migrate out of tumors into lymphatic vessels. In addition, an earlier study by Dr. Lund and colleagues demonstrated that adoptive T cell therapy for melanoma is enhanced in mice engineered to lack dermal lymphatic vessels compared to wild-type controls. Such findings led Dr. Lund and her research team to hypothesize that functional lymphatic vessels may limit the efficacy of tumor-specific CD8 T cells by facilitating their exit from the TME. In their new study, the researchers sought to understand how this escape route operated and how it might be interrupted. The team began by tracking transferred antigen-specific CD8 T cells in vivo in the absence of dermal lymphatic vessels. These cells equally infiltrated melanoma tumors in both lymphatic-deficient and wild-type mice. By day 7 after transfer, however, more T cells had accumulated in lymphatic-deficient tumors, even though their proliferation was lower. These data confirmed that lymphatic transport decreases the retention of therapeutic T cells. Blocking an Escape Signal To determine how retention could be increased, the team investigated chemokine pathways whose surface expression was regulated in concert with intratumoral activation and progressive dysfunction. They found that the chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor protein CXCR4 attract CD8 T cells toward the tumor periphery, limiting their target engagement and encouraging their escape into lymphatic vessels. When the researchers blocked this signaling pathway using the CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100, T cells no longer migrated to the periphery. And with continuous administration of the drug, their numbers within the TME doubled. These changes suggested that blocking the CXCR4 pathway would also prime the TME for response to immunotherapy. To test the therapeutic impact of AMD3100 in the context of immune checkpoint blockade, the team administered the drug both with and without an anti–PD-L1 inhibitor to mice with established melanoma tumors. Alone, the CXCR4 antagonist did not have statistically significant effects. In combination with the immune checkpoint inhibitor, however, it arrested growth in approximately half of the tumors. Immunotherapy alone had previously failed to stop the cancer’s proliferation. “These results suggest that it is not only about getting T cells into the melanoma tumor, but also about getting them to the right place with the right signals to drive the most specific and durable immune responses,” says Dr. Lund. In future research, the team will investigate other molecular pathways in lymphatic vessels to increase the “dwell time” of CD8 T cells within tumors. Dr. Lund is a paid consultant for AGS Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical company that was not involved in the study. Dermatology, Pathology, Cancer Biology Amanda W. Lund, PhD, is an associate professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology and the Department of Pathology. Her research centers on the role of the lymphatic vasculature in regulating cutaneous tumor immunity, with the ultimate goal of enhancing cancer immunotherapy. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors With $1.7 million in funding from a Drug Discovery Award from The Mark Foundation for Cancer Research, investigator , and a colleague at the University of British Columbia are seeking to identify a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of the amino acid transporter SLC38A2/SNAT2 as a potential treatment for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging and are a major step forward to credentialing SLC38A2 as a potential target in this deadly disease,” says Dr. Kimmelman, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the and senior advisor to the dean for cancer strategy and operations at NYU Langone Health. “The profound effects that we see when we target this alanine transporter in pancreatic tumors in mice are extremely encouraging.” One of the deadliest forms of cancer, PDAC has a five-year survival rate of approximately 10 percent . Most patients present with tumors that are unresectable, and standard-of-care chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors offer minimal improvements. “Therapeutic options for patients with pancreatic cancer remain severely limited, and any novel targets warrant significant study,” Dr. Kimmelman says. Building on Previous Discoveries An internationally recognized leader in the cancer metabolism field, Dr. Kimmelman has identified several novel metabolic pathways in PDAC. He shares The Mark Foundation award with Seth Parker, PhD, an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular biology at the University of British Columbia and a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Kimmelman’s NYU Langone lab. The investigative trail that led to their current collaboration began with a study Dr. Kimmelman and his team published in 2016 in . In that work, the researchers found that in the nutrient-poor environment of the stroma, pancreatic cancer cells signal pancreatic stellate cells to secrete non-essential amino acids, including alanine. The cancer then uses alanine as a fuel source in place of glucose In a subsequent study, published in 2020 in Cancer Discovery , Dr. Parker led a team of researchers in Dr. Kimmelman’s lab who found that pancreatic cancer cells use SLC38A2/SNAT2 to take up alanine from their microenvironment. The researchers showed that genetically targeting the transporter created a metabolic crisis in cultures of pancreatic tumor cells, impeding their growth. The group also demonstrated that targeting SLC38A2/SNAT2 in animal models, using genetic tools such as CRISPR, shrinks pancreatic tumors. “It has been an exciting journey from our first observations that pancreatic cancer cells can use fuel from neighboring cells in these nutrient-poor tumors to, more recently, identifying the key molecular mechanisms of how this nutrient sharing occurs,” Dr. Kimmelman says. An Ambitious Goal In the new study, Dr. Kimmelman and Dr. Parker and their colleagues will develop a cell-based SLC38A2 uptake assay and screen a large chemical library. Confirmed hits will be subjected to medicinal chemistry review, further validation, and extensive profiling for in vitro and in vivo activity, specificity, and selectivity in PDAC cells and tumors. Identified leads will serve as chemical scaffolds for future medicinal chemistry–led optimization. In addition to The Mark Foundation grant, the project is supported by funds from Technology Opportunities and Ventures , the technology commercialization arm of NYU Langone. “This generous influx of support,” says Dr. Kimmelman, “enables us to pursue our ultimate goal—to bring a compound forward for the clinical development of a treatment for pancreatic cancer.” Dr. Kimmelman has financial interests in Vescor Therapeutics and is an inventor on patents pertaining to KRAS-regulated metabolic pathways and redox control pathways in pancreatic cancer, targeting GOT1 as a therapeutic approach, targeting alanine transport, and the autophagic control of iron metabolism. He is on the scientific advisory board of Rafael/Cornerstone Pharmaceuticals and OncoRev and has been a consultant for Deciphena and Abbvie. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Matina Balou, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Physicians and speech-language pathologists in NYU Langone’s Voice Center are participating in multiple studies aimed at determining the elusive causes and mechanisms of dysphagia and finding improved methods for predicting and diagnosing the disorder. one-year pilot study —a multidisciplinary collaboration with the , and the Department of Communicative Sciences and Disorders at NYU Steinhardt—is investigating long-term dysphagia and dysphonia in patients who have anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) spine surgery. A particular challenge to understanding the prevalence and pathophysiology of dysphagia post-ACDF is distinguishing a short-term impairment caused by post-surgical edema from a more serious long-term iatrogenic injury to the swallowing nerves and muscles at risk during the surgery, says Matina Balou, PhD , a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology-head neck surgery. Expected Edema vs. Atypical Swallowing Postsurgical edema alone typically resolves in the first few months, Dr. Balou says. Patients who are still experiencing dysphagia after that time are referred to speech-language pathology for a swallow evaluation. “Currently, by the time patients come to us with symptoms, they have already suffered for several months,” says Dr. Balou. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” After reviewing approximately 2,000 articles, the researchers found that nearly half of studies that described the problem of dysphagia after ACDF utilized the Bazaz scale, a simple, two-question, patient-reported measure. “If we can identify an algorithm that would let surgeons know a patient is high-risk for long-term problems, we could recognize what’s happening and intervene at patients’ first complaint—potentially restoring their quality of life sooner.” “This is a multifactorial problem that demands more than a yes/no analysis,” says Dr. Balou. “Most patients say they have swallowing issues post-surgery, but it doesn’t necessarily translate into weakness or destruction.” Identifying Predictive Measures Working with a group of neurosurgeons led by Anthony K. Frempong-Boadu, MD , co-director of the Spine Center, the pilot study will follow 20 patients through their ACDF surgery and recovery. Participants are examined through two visits at the Voice Center—six weeks pre-ACDF and six weeks post-ACDF—with the research team conducting three primary evaluations: a videofluoroscopic swallow study (VFSS), measures of pharyngeal edema using an acoustic pharyngometer, and an acoustic voice sample. Additionally, the researchers administer pre-and post-surgery questionnaires. “We are one of the only centers that has the videofluoroscopy equipment on site, which makes it easier for patients to participate in our research,” Dr. Balou notes. Of seven participants who have currently completed their surgeries, three have had to enroll in swallowing therapy pre-op to improve safety and efficacy. The team hopes to determine whether acoustic pharyngometer and voice sample can be validated as accurate noninvasive measures of edema, data that will pave the way toward a future multicenter research study. An additional goal is to describe the physiology of swallowing post-ACDF, uncovering data that could predict which patients might experience long-term impairment. Expanding Dysphagia Evaluation Voice Center researchers are also using videofluoroscopy, high-resolution manometry, and other advanced imaging to establish predictive measures for dysphagia caused by conditions such as stroke, pulmonary disease, head and neck cancer, spinal cord injury, and aging. Dr. Balou describes a portfolio of ongoing studies. One study seeks to determine if swallowing problems can be predicted in the ENT office setting using findings on flexible laryngoscopy prior to gold standard VFSS/endoscopic swallow evaluation. A separate longitudinal study is evaluating dysphagia in pulmonary patients with non-tuberculous mycobacteria. Another observational study has reviewed phenotypes of the epiglottis to collect classification data for creating a dysphagia prediction system. “It’s difficult to tease apart which part of the throat is not doing what it’s supposed to do,” Dr. Balou says. “The truth is that we do multiple swallowing evaluations every day and prescribe exercises that work. What we are lacking is treatment studies—there’s a gap in the literature. But we are improving patients, I see it every day.” Matina Balou, PhD, is an assistant clinical professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine. The focus of her clinical work and research is on understanding, preventing, and treating dysphagia. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research An early-career investigator discusses the impact of receiving one of the NIH’s most prestigious grants. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 New research shows importance of boosters to maintain protection against COVID-19 in patients with SLE. Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases NYU Langone co-leads major public–private partnership to clarify pathways in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An implanted pacemaker-like device could quell overactive lymphocytes and reduce symptoms. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients Adding patient-reported outcomes and health equity data to major lupus registry could aid new care strategies. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? Research probes if patients with mental health stressors could require unique interventions. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting This November, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Rheumatology’s 2022 Annual Convergence Meeting in Philadelphia. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Saturday, November 12 Dual (and Dueling) Fibroblast Differentiation Is Integral to the Pathogenesis of Anti-Ro Mediated Congenital Heart Block and Provides a Novel Biomarker of Severity : Pediatric Rheumatology – Basic Science Poster Jill Buyon, MD , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Christina Firl; Nicola Fraser; Mala Masson; and Amit Saxena, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 1–3 p.m. Sunday, November 13 Postoperative Flares and Peri-arthroscopic Management of Immunosuppressive Medications in Patients with Rheumatic Disease : Orthopedics, Low Back Pain, and Rehabilitation Poster : Amanda Avila; Laith Jazrawi, MD , Professor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery; Charles Lin; David Marulanda; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Dhruv Shankar; and Kinjal Vasvada, NYU Langone : 9–10:30 a.m. Thrombocytopenia and Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia in Antiphospholipid Antibody-positive Patients: Descriptive Analysis of the AntiPhospholipid Syndrome Alliance for Clinical Trials and InternatiOnal Networking (APS ACTION) Clinical Database and Repository : Antiphospholipid Syndrome Poster H. Michael Belmont, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10–10:05 a.m. Contribution of Antibody Titers/Specificities to Adverse Pregnancy Outcomes in a Multicenter Prospective Study of anti-Ro Positive Mothers : Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders Poster , Professor, Department of Medicine; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Philip Carlucci; Robert Clancy; Nicola Fraser; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Peter Izmirly, MD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Fardina Malik, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Julie Nusbaum, MD Christina Penfield, MD , Assistant Professor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Colin Phoon, MD , Professor, Department of Pediatrics; Paula Rackoff, MD, Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Ashley Roman, MD , Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology; , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; and Bruce Solitar, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Prevalence of Secondary Connective Tissue Diseases and Autoantibodies Among Racial and Ethnic Groups in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients in the Manhattan Lupus Surveillance Program : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster II: Manifestations : Brendan Denvir; Philip Carlucci; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Kelly Corbitt, DO , Rheumatology Fellow; and Monday, November 14 In Utero Exposure to Hydroxychloroquine Does Not Associate with Ocular Toxicity as Assessed by Optical Coherence Tomography Five Years After Birth : Abstracts: Reproductive Issues in Rheumatic Disorders , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and Mala Masson, NYU Langone 11:15–11:25 a.m. Lupus Clinical Flares in Patients with Gut Pathobiont Blooms Share a Novel Peripheral Blood Transcriptomic Immune Activation Profile : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes III: Genetic Factors Gregg Silverman, MD , Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : Doua Azzouz; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Macintosh Cornwell; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Mala Masson; Kelly Ruggles, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; and , NYU Langone : 3:15–3:25 p.m. COVID-19 Infections, Morbidity, and Seroreactivity in SLE Patients Following Initial Vaccination Series and Additional Dose Through the New York City Omicron BA.1 Wave : SLE – Diagnosis, Manifestations, and Outcomes Poster III: Outcomes : Brittany Banbury; , Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine; Robert Clancy; Alexis Engel; Nicola Fraser, , Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Ghadeer Hasan; Gary Ho, MD , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Jammie Law; Mala Masson; Jose Scher, MD , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Chung-E Tseng, MD , Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Devyn Zaminski, NYU Langone Long-term Use of Voclosporin in Patients with Class V Lupus Nephritis: Results from the AURORA 2 Continuation Study : SLE – Treatment Poster I : 1:25–1:30 p.m. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte Ratio Among Flaring and Non-flaring Uncontrolled Gout Patients Undergoing Pegloticase Therapy as Part of the Phase 3 Pivotal Trials : Metabolic and Crystal Arthropathies – Basic and Clinical Science Michael Pillinger, MD , Professor, Department of Medicine Effects of Short Chain Fatty Acid Supplementation in Modulation of Gut Microbiome and T-Regulatory Cells in Health and New Onset Rheumatoid Arthritis : RA – Treatment Poster IV Rebecca Blank, MD, PhD , Instructor, Department of Medicine; Sydney Catron; Anthony Jimenez Hernandez; , Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine; Zakwan Uddin, NYU Langone Time: 1–3 p.m. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired John-Ross Rizzo, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For the world’s 39 million blind and 246 million low-vision individuals, impaired navigational ability negatively impacts income, physical and mental health, and quality of life. Advanced wearables can provide assistance superior to the traditional white cane, but many are prohibitively expensive. In addition, adapting devices for indoor use typically requires infrastructure—such as Wi-Fi or visual light communication (VLC) transmitters—that may be scarce in low- and middle-income countries. Rusk Rehabilitation researchers at NYU Langone Health, in concert with partners in Thailand, are developing a platform designed to overcome these obstacles. Known as VIS ION (Visually Impaired Smart Service System for Spatial Intelligence and Onboard Navigation), the platform consists of an on-person navigational and computing functional aid paired with microservices through the cloud. The team, led by John-Ross Rizzo, MD , recently received funding from the NIH’s National Eye Institute and Fogarty International Center to begin testing the system at Ratchasuda College, a school for disabled students affiliated with Mahidol University in Bangkok. Linking Inexpensive Hardware to Next-Generation Tech The VIS ION platform provides real-time situational and obstacle awareness via a backpack fitted with five main components: 1) distance, ranging, and image sensors; 2) an embedded microcomputer; 3) a haptic interface via waist strap; 4) a headset with binaural bone conduction speakers and a noise-cancelling microphone; and 5) a GPS module. “Unlike some other digital navigational aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons,” Dr. Rizzo explains. Instead, the platform leverages stereo cameras as its sensing foundation. Using 3D semantic mapping and localization technology, the system registers images to a database of maps recorded at centimeter scale. The wearer receives information through audible messages and vibrotactile prompts. In areas with Wi-Fi or cellular service, the localization network utilizes cloud computing. When no connection is available, however, the system can operate fully on-board. “Unlike some other digital navigation aids for the visually impaired, ours does not need expensive 3D Lidar sensors or infrastructural beacons.” Another cost-saving feature is the platform’s use of images acquired via Google and through citizen science. Volunteers can record their wayfinding with mobile phones, uploading images and GPS coordinates to the mapping database. Participants in trials of VIS ION will also help populate the database during navigation. Refining the System in a Global Setting In the first phase of the NIH-funded study, the researchers will implement semantic segmentation and image-query-based localization networks on the Ratchusada campus. They will deploy the augmented platform with visually impaired students, and assess for acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility. Pending success, the team will progress to the second phase—further enhancing the platform over an extended period, and selecting an additional urban area in Bangkok for generalizability testing. “We anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems.” “Although initial costs of VIS ION may be high, we anticipate a production cost of about half that for available systems,” Dr. Rizzo says. “We’re using an approach that leverages input from study participants for improved function and usability, aimed at ultimately benefitting visually impaired persons worldwide.” John-Ross Rizzo, MD, is the Ilse Melamid Associate Professor and vice chair of Equity and Innovation, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of neurology. His research interests center on the development of assistive technology for the visually impaired as well as eye-hand coordination after stroke and brain injury. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 This fall in Chicago, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the World Cornea Congress VIII, September 28–29, directly followed by the American Academy of Ophthalmology Annual Meeting, September 30–October 3. View World Cornea Congress program schedule view AAO conference information and abstract titles , Chair, Department of Ophthalmology, is Past President of the Cornea Society and served as one of this year’s three program directors. Below are notable sessions from both conferences featuring our faculty and trainees. World Cornea Congress Wednesday, September 28 How to Image the Opaque Pediatric Cornea Christina Prescott, MD, PhD , Associate Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W193 Thursday, September 29 Spotlight: Fuchs Dystrophy Moderator: , Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D. Professor of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Location: W190 Pediatric Corneal Transplantation Real World Experience: Cornea Findings in Patients Undergoing Treatment with Belantamab Mafodotin Presenting Author: Rebecca McGee, MD , Postgraduate Year 3 Resident, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Co-Authors: Ilyse Haberman, MD , Assistant Professor; Douglas Lazzaro, MD AAO 2022 Friday, September 30–Monday, October 3 Clinical Outcomes from Symptomatic Horseshoe Retinal Tears Following Laser Retinopexy Co-Author: , Professor, Department of Ophthalmology, NYU Langone Session: PO416 MicroShunt vs. Trabeculectomy Complete Success Rates by Target IOP: Two-Year Outcomes of a Randomized, Multicenter Study Joseph Panarelli, MD Session: PO162 Which Endothelial Keratoplasty Should I Choose? Ask The Expert: Session: ASK10V Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health How do comorbidities and disparities in overall health cluster among different subsets of patients living with lupus? Through a new five-year project funded by the CDC, NYU Langone Health researchers will address this question by examining a variety of clinical and nonclinical factors within the health system’s highly diverse patient cohort, SAMPLE Harnessing Epidemiology to Advance Lupus Treatment and Health , or HEALTH, study will offer a unique perspective due to the collaboration of NYU Langone rheumatologists and population health experts. “Are there other things going hand in hand with lupus as comorbid conditions that no one’s really looked at?” asks Heather T. Gold, PhD , a professor of population health, who will partner with rheumatology researchers including Jill P. Buyon, MD , on the study. Dr. Gold, who lives with lupus herself, says her personal experience as a patient of over 25 years will inform her work. “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” The study will also measure the burden of lupus on patients’ quality of life, and develop and evaluate a home-based strategy to identify early lupus nephritis in high-risk patients. “These research ideas start with seeing patients and listening to what they have to say,” says Dr. Izmirly. “The home monitoring idea, for instance, is a way to empower them to help manage their own disease.” A Broader View of Lupus As part of the first aim to study frequency and prevalence of lupus and non-lupus comorbidities, the researchers will use electronic health record information as well as hospitalization and emergency use data from New York’s Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System . Including data on social and structural determinants of health will help clarify nonclinical associations affecting patients’ health and healthcare utilization. The study’s second aim will assess patient-reported outcomes related to pain, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and other factors in combination with disease activity, and social determinants of health. The collaborators have piloted a set of questions that they are administering twice a year to patients with lupus, including versions translated into Mandarin and Spanish. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus… I think that would be pretty exciting.” “Clinically, patients may have phenotypes based on blood work and other tests, but that doesn’t measure the patient experience at all,” Dr. Gold says. “Someone might feel really lousy, but their blood work looks normal.” In addition to supporting the goals of improving clinical management of lupus and co-management of related health conditions, the study will gather novel molecular data to determine whether any biomarkers map to patterns uncovered by the quality-of-life analysis. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus that go beyond traditional markers, I think that would be pretty exciting,” Dr. Buyon says. Empowering Patients Through At-Home Testing For the study’s third aim, the researchers are assessing a home-based urine testing protocol for patients at high risk of lupus nephritis. “We always worry about kidney disease in patients with lupus, and many times they aren’t aware that they have it until they have really swollen legs or other complications,” Dr. Izmirly says. The home-based option may also reduce the burden on patients who would otherwise need to make frequent lab visits. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes.” An initial pilot project will involve 20 high-risk patients who are instructed how to use urine dipsticks at home to measure their protein levels. “The patients will be sent a training video on how to do the home urinalysis,” Dr. Izmirly says. “Once a week, they’ll get a text message prompting them to do one and send us the results.” Abnormal test results will prompt a more formal laboratory analysis. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes,” he says. Jill P. Buyon, MD, is the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, director of the Division of Rheumatology, co-director of the Colton Center for Autoimmunity, and director of the Lupus Center. Her research and clinical work focus on lupus, lupus-like conditions, pre-lupus, and Sjogren’s syndrome. Heather T. Gold, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her research focuses on socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical determinants of health and economic outcomes. Peter M. Izmirly, MD, is a professor of medicine and a member of the Division of Rheumatology. His clinical and research interests include the epidemiology of lupus and related autoimmune diseases, lupus nephritis, and neonatal lupus. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease NYU Langone Health’s internationally known has forged strong collaborations with researchers in the Middle East, Japan, France, and elsewhere to help understand, diagnose, and treat the condition. The center’s leader, Johannes Nowatzky, MD , the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease and Ocular Rheumatology Programs in the , also recently secured two R01 grants from the NIH to support new investigations into the mechanisms underlying this relatively rare but life-altering disease. Here, Dr. Nowatzky discusses his goals in expanding the program’s reach. A Hub for Expertise and Innovation What makes the Behçet’s Disease Center so unique? Dr. Nowatzky: We are building a truly comprehensive program with notable expansions across our three clinical, research, and educational components. In the clinical area, I have many years of experience with the disease in the Middle East, where it is most common. I’ve also recruited some of the very best rheumatologists, who can really think deeply about a patient referred with Behçet’s disease, or labeled as having it, and revise a diagnosis if necessary. This label is, many times, incorrect. My laboratory supports the research part of the center. We conduct both basic and translational research. We have two R01 grants focused on Behçet’s disease—that’s quite unique because the NIH hadn’t previously awarded those types of grants for Behçet’s research in more than three decades. On the teaching side, we train at all levels from fellows to continuing medical education. Much of the Behçet’s disease training that is directed to clinicians is traditionally considered to be in the rheumatology domain. However, conventional rheumatology training does not cover many of the skills needed to diagnostically deal with Behçet’s disease and the conditions that mimic it. For instance, developing a differential diagnosis of mucosal lesions or of subtle ocular findings that help determine whether a certain form of uveitis makes or breaks a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. Where do you see the program further expanding? One priority in the clinical sector is diagnostic accuracy and precision. That is a huge problem in Behçet’s disease because it doesn’t have seromarkers or other biomarkers, and no truly pathognomonic findings. There is a serious overdiagnosis in the United States, which has to do mostly with the understandable lack of familiarity of many providers with this rare disorder. At the same time, critically ill patients with Behçet’s disease sometimes do not get diagnosed, which can have serious consequences. Here, our consult service can help. We see patients who have been labeled as having Behçet’s disease by their referring providers. When sending these patients to us, doctors need to state a reason for the consult. In more than 80% of cases, it is uncertainty regarding the accuracy of a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. The other important direction of expansion is understanding disease mechanisms. Understanding the biology of this complex polygenic disease with its many different clinical phenotypes is a difficult, slow, and expensive process, but the clinical and scientific rewards are high. There simply is no real long-term progress without it. I feel privileged to finally have a real shot at doing this through the funding we secured recently, our combined clinical and scientific expertise in immunology, and our network of collaborators around the globe. A New View of Immune Changes How is your research clarifying the disease biology? One of our R01 grants, Unraveling the role of HLA-B*51/ERAP1 in Behçet’s eye disease , deals with the disease directly. What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease or an HLA class I–restricted disease. “What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease.” What this means is there is likely a true mechanism here that alters presentation of peptides to CD8 T cells via HLA-B*51—or perhaps changes the interaction with other cells, such as natural killer cells. We recently published data that there is a change in the immune response if you genetically alter activity of ERAP1 in an HLA-B*51 restriction context. We also showed that the alterations in the immune phenotypes with this kind of genotype fall into the CD8 T cell compartment, and that there are changes in the frequency of CD8 T cells that have seen antigen versus those that have not. These findings have implications for how we view this disease immunologically and how we may want to design treatments. We have targets now such as ERAP1 for which there are already compounds that can alter the activity of this enzyme, as well as other strategies. Mapping Connections with Uveitis What about your second major line of research? The second R01 grant, Modulation of immunodominance in HLA class I associated uveitides , is delving into certain types of uveitis that have HLA class I associations but look profoundly different clinically, such as Behçet’s uveitis and HLA-B27-associated acute anterior uveitis. HLA class I/ERAP1 epistasis has relevance to other, more common diseases. In the context of Behçet’s disease with ERAP1 Hap10, for instance, when you also carry HLA-B*51, it increases the risk for Behçet’s disease to a level we have never seen before. That same enzyme haplotype or allotype, ERAP1 Hap10, actually protects from HLA-B27–associated ankylosing spondylitis and acute anterior uveitis. We’re trying to figure out how this inverse relationship works. On a public health level, this is important because psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis and acute interior uveitis are much more common than Behçet’s disease. If you identify mechanisms in the same pathway that are relevant to all of those diseases, it may be much easier to profit in the Behçet’s disease area from downstream clinical trials and pharmacological research testing new compounds for the treatment of those other diseases. Johannes Nowatzky, MD, is the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease Center and the Ocular Rheumatology Program. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers Current techniques for evaluating small bronchoscopic biopsies on-site are resource intensive and may compromise the integrity of samples for later analysis. , an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery, is working to incorporate stimulated Raman histology (SRH) microscopy, a novel optical imaging modality, into clinical workflows as a means of facilitating real-time tissue assessment. Invenio Imaging , Dr. Bessich and colleagues are evaluating the feasibility and utility of SRH microscopy in assessing small bronchoscopic biopsy specimens “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” “We want to be able to analyze lung tissue intraoperatively without losing the sample for downstream analysis,” says Dr. Bessich. “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” Putting the Tech to the Test Raman spectroscopy is a common nondestructive imaging technique with several biosensing applications. Investigators at NYU Langone are also applying the approach to improve brain tumor diagnosis The application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis has many potential benefits, including reduced procedure time, decreased total biopsies, and improved yield, and could allow for intraprocedural therapeutics to be applied, especially in cases of peripheral nodules. “Before our study, the use of SRH was not assesed in lung biopsies,” says Dr. Bessich. “We wanted to know if this technology could enhance the role of the pulmonologist or thoracic pathologist in the diagnosis or characterization of primary lung cancers.” Dr. Bessich and colleagues imaged specimens using SRH in the procedure room and then submitted them to pathology for fixation and sectioning. After collection, they created a training set of 50 cases from bronchoscopic and surgical lung biopsies. Subsequently, a thoracic pathologist used this training set to interpret the SRH images, referenced against a surgical pathology hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) image with the final diagnosis. In a prospective validation, the researchers acquired SRH images from 19 cases. “The samples were imaged sequentially, first with SRH, followed by conventional H&E microscopy,” explains Dr. Bessich. “The 19 prospective cases included a wide range of diagnoses and sample types common in clinical practice, including 6 benign cases and 13 lung malignancies. The thoracic pathologist evaluated each of the 19 SRH case images and provided a diagnosis.” Promising Results For the presence of diagnostic, neoplastic tissue, there was strong case accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, says Dr. Bessich. Furthermore, almost all of the images were considered adequate for diagnosis and downstream analysis. “These results are a testament to the expertise of the thoracic pathologist who is trained to interpret SRH images, confirming that they have high fidelity for what was observed in the actual specimen,” says Dr. Bessich. “Importantly, however, these data are based on a very small number of cases, and future studies need to be conducted to assess the feasibility of the system on a larger scale.” While the application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis is promising, Dr. Bessich and her team believe that clinical use of SRH microscopy could also aid in the selection and prompt delivery of therapy for patients. “In the clinic, we’re often waiting for weeks to receive molecular results from tissue,” says Dr. Bessich. “If we could obtain these results in real time, we could initiate appropriate therapy sooner.” Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Can trauma be inherited? Research says yes—but until now, less was understood about the mechanism of intergenerational trauma and its impact on specific neuropsychiatric outcomes. New and ongoing studies led by NYU Langone Health neuroscientist Moriah E. Thomason, PhD , are untangling how various biological and environmental factors characterize typical and atypical neurodevelopmental trajectories in children. “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally. The question is, does this happen even before birth?” “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally, from parents who experienced maltreatment in childhood to their own children,” explains Dr. Thomason. “The question is, does this happen biologically, even before birth, and if so, what does that actually look like in the brain’s circuitry?” Mapping Trauma’s Roots, Before Birth Building on earlier research using resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to create a blueprint of fetal brain connectivity, Dr. Thomason studied the fetal amygdala–cortical function —critical to the regulation of emotion and fear—in scans of 89 healthy pregnant women between the late second trimester and birth. The women were primarily from households with low resources and socioeconomic status, who themselves had relatively high childhood maltreatment as measured by the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. “Earlier studies have found an association between mothers who reported emotional neglect during childhood and infants with stronger connectivity between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex,” Dr. Thomason explains. “We sought to eliminate the potential influences of the postnatal environment by examining these brain regions before birth, when biological influences contribute maximally to our measures.” A positive coupling was found between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex and premotor areas of the developing brains scanned in utero, confirming an association between the mothers’ experiences of childhood maltreatment and the circuitry of their babies’ brains before birth. Further, higher amygdala connectivity between the amygdala and the left prefrontal cortex was observed in fetuses of mothers who experienced greater childhood trauma. Brain Differences: Biological Adaptation? It is well understood that positive amygdala–prefrontal cortex connectivity is associated with higher threat sensitivity and anxiety disorders in children and adults; in this pattern, healthy response regulation is interrupted by irregularities in the limbic circuitry. Through longitudinal studies, Dr. Thomason and her team will probe whether sensitization of that circuitry beginning in utero leads to lasting developmental and neuropsychological differences. “We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” “Biology is evolutionarily intelligent,” she explains. “It may be that we are born with brains adapted and optimized for the environment we grow into. We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” With increased understanding of the role of both genetics and environment on inherited trauma–associated outcomes, researchers hope to pinpoint the interrelationship between those developmental inputs and specific neuropsychiatric outcomes—and target early interventions accordingly. Pooling Data to Mitigate Generational Trauma NYU Langone is one of 25 sites involved in the HEALthy Brain and Child Development Study national consortium following pregnant women and children from birth through early childhood, to observe the impact of various biological and environmental exposures on behavior and development. With a five-year grant from the NIH, Dr. Thomason and colleagues from the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry will contribute to the most comprehensive dataset to date on early development based on biospecimens, brain imaging, patient-reported history, and other inputs. Data collected will enable researchers to analyze the factors that contribute to children’s brain development, and identify exposures to trauma, substance use, and other environmental influences that may either increase their risk of problems or increase their capacity for resilience. “We are only just beginning to understand the breadth of neurodevelopmental consequences stemming from trauma in all its forms,” says Dr. Thomason. “From micronutrients in developing teeth to toxins in urine, we are uncovering biological clues to lead us toward interventions that can help mitigate the negative effects of intergenerational trauma.” Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Population Health Moriah E. Thomason, PhD, is the Barakett Associate Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and program director of the Neurodevelopmental Early Childhood Research Program. Her research focuses on how social and environmental factors impact early human neurodevelopment. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Preventive health is a mainstay of modern pediatrics, yet preventive strategies targeting early child development and school readiness—essential to overall health outcomes—can be underutilized, particularly in children who face adversity. New strategies developed by Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD Erin M. Roby, PhD , together with colleagues at NYU Langone Health and its , are helping parents build skills in reading aloud and play that support early child development and school readiness, while helping physicians and researchers identify families at risk for disparities. “Early relational health greatly impacts resilience. Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty and racism with preventive interventions.” “We know that early relational health—how children engage with parents and other caregivers—greatly impacts resilience,” notes Dr. Mendelsohn. “Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty, racism, and trauma by equipping parents and care providers to implement preventive interventions.” An estimated two in five children in the United States live in low-income households, says Dr. Roby; half of these children lack the skills needed for learning when they enter school, she adds. These poverty-related achievement gaps begin in infancy, widening over time in the absence of intervention. Cognitive stimulation and parent–child interactions—including talking, teaching, playing, and reading—are associated with a reduction in these gaps. However, measuring the frequency and quality of these interactions has been limited to resource-intensive professional assessments that often take place in the home. Funded by seven NIH grants, the methods developed by Dr. Mendelsohn, Dr. Roby, and colleagues are designed to increase the adoption of both comprehensive developmental promotion strategies and assessment tools that can be used during pediatric well-child visits. Capturing a Picture of Cognition in the Home Recently, the research team evaluated and updated the StimQ , a measure of the cognitive home environment that has informed at least 93 research studies worldwide—29 at NYU Langone alone—since its creation in 1996. The tool assesses parents’ verbal responsivity, teaching, reading behaviors, and availability of home learning materials. The revised version, StimQ , is updated to reflect developments in both available technology and the field’s understanding of cognitive stimulation and its impact on outcomes. The interviewer-administered questionnaire takes approximately 20 minutes to complete; it is freely available online in several languages and has been used by early childhood programs to measure the effectiveness of interventions. “The use of this tool over the past 25 years has dramatically expedited our understanding of the value of developmental interventions while building the capacity of individual programs to measure their impact on a given child and family,” says Dr. Roby. The Well Exam: A Ready Intervention Opportunity To identify opportunities for intervention at the point of pediatric primary care, the research team developed the Video Interaction Project (VIP) . The parent education program is designed to be delivered at the time of every pediatric well visit from birth through 5 years. Within each session, a VIP coach leads a development-focused discussion with parents, then creates a three-minute video of the parents interacting with their children during reading or play. The coach then watches the video with the parent, reinforcing strengths and discussing opportunities to enhance interactions that stimulate early brain development and provide children with the cognitive, language, and social–emotional capacities critical for learning. “Our family-centered, culturally aligned approach empowers parents to build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” “The elegance of this solution is in its simplicity and low cost at just $250 per child per year,” says Dr. Mendelsohn. Studies of the impact of VIP have found that the intervention enhances parent–child relationships, improves child literacy and social–emotional development, and measurably reduces behavior problems that interfere with learning, such as hyperactivity. Expanding Access to Strengths-Based Tools Currently implemented across 10 locations in the New York area, the VIP program, supported by the team at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, is also available in Hudson County, New Jersey; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Flint, Michigan, where it was implemented to support families impacted by the city’s water crisis. The team is also working on global implementation, with work underway in Brazil and plans for expansion in Singapore. Over the next five years, the researchers aim to reach 20,000 families by expanding the VIP program to 50 sites nationally. “The success of this intervention is its family-centered, culturally aligned approach,” says Dr. Roby. “It recognizes the enormous pressures families face—from poverty, trauma, racism, and the global pandemic—and empowers parents to see where they can build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” Pediatrics, Population Health Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and population health, and co-director of research for the Divisions of General Pediatrics and Developmental–Behavioral Pediatrics. His research interests include poverty-related disparities in early child development and school readiness, and the promotion of positive child experiences as a buffer to trauma and adversity. Pediatrics, Psychology Erin M. Roby, PhD, is a developmental psychologist and an assistant professor of pediatrics. Her research focuses on early child development and behavior, parent–child interactions, and interventions to promote positive parenting and outcomes for children who face adversity. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone physicians and researchers design a go-to model for educating providers and supporting patients and families. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age A veteran researcher and clinician discusses landmark advances ahead in diagnostics, therapeutics, and ICU care. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Secondary infections not associated with worse clinical outcomes but rather poor viral control is the critical event. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? A landmark trial assesses injected biologics for patients with refractory non-small cell lung cancer. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Evidence is increasing for music-based cognitive interventions, says Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH , director of the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program and a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. For decades, Dr. Mittelman has designed and studied psychosocial interventions to evaluate their benefits for family caregivers and their relatives with dementia. Her work has shown older adults with dementia and their family members both benefit from arts-based activities . Her earlier randomized controlled trials demonstrated that caregivers across demographics benefit from comprehensive counseling and support, which improves their own emotional and physical well-being and thereby helps them to keep their relatives at home. The evidence from this research has spurred New York state funding for similar programs that include counseling and support, including the one at NYU Langone Health directed by Dr. Mittelman. Her team recently earned an additional five years of state funding to support these efforts through the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program “Psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers.” “There is no drug yet available that can prevent or cure dementia, but psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers,” says Dr. Mittelman. With her colleague, Kendra Ray, PhD , a research assistant professor of rehabilitative medicine, Dr. Mittelman has shown that music can reduce agitation and depression symptoms among people with dementia living in nursing homes. Additionally, Dr. Ray has found patients with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders benefit from music-based interventions. The Unforgettables Chorus In 2011, Dr. Mittelman launched The Unforgettables chorus as an intervention and social outlet for people with dementia together with their caregivers. The project reflected emerging evidence that music-related memories and abilities remain accessible even after dementia onset, Dr. Mittelman says. “Many people have the prejudice that people with dementia won’t be able learn anything. In a situation in which they are producing music for the enjoyment of other people, our participants with dementia in the early to middle stages were able to learn 18 new songs for every performance.” pilot study of the chorus , published in 2018, found significant quality of life improvements for both people with dementia and their caregivers following participation. Participants stated that benefits included belonging to a group, having a normal activity together and learning new skills. Since the pandemic started, chorus practice has been held online where it draws an even larger crowd—an average of 75 participants each week, Dr. Mittelman says. She notes the chorus has also served as a model for others around the United States and elsewhere. Looking Beyond Alzheimer’s and Dementia Prevalence of cognitive disorders among people with HIV/AIDS has increased over the past few decades due to extended lifespans afforded by antiretrovirals, Dr. Ray explains, which has increased the burden on certified nursing assistants (CNAs). As part of her dissertation, Dr. Ray developed a 4-week musical intervention specifically for people with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders and their CNAs. Among 12 affected nursing home residents and five CNAs in the study, Dr. Ray found significant decreases in depressive symptoms among residents and personal achievement improvements among CNAs over the course of the intervention. “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions.” “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions such as counseling and support, as well as arts-based interventions that can improve quality of life,” Dr. Mittelman says. Moving Toward Standard Practice Drs. Mittelman and Ray’s studies are supported by many others touting the benefits of music-based interventions to alleviate neuropsychiatric symptoms . A long-term goal is to standardize approaches and study designs to analyze benefits more deeply. This includes assessing and quantifying psychosocial benefits between patients and caregivers. Still, Dr. Mittelman says the work to date provides clear evidence for the value of integrating music and other arts into the lives of people with dementia and their family members. Additionally, tailored interventions that include caregivers keep more patients living in the community, rather than nursing homes, saving millions of dollars in direct care costs Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH, is a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Mittelman’s work centers on interventions to improve the lives of caregivers and people living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules Diagnosing suspicious peripheral pulmonary lesions seen on CT scan has often required bronchoscopy and an additional thoracic surgery to retrieve the tissue needed for biopsy. Vivek Murthy, MD , are using robotic bronchoscopy to improve minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules, reducing the need for more invasive procedures. NYU Langone Health was involved in testing the robotic equipment and was one of the first clinical sites in the U.S. to use the technology. “The paradigm has shifted in interventional pulmonology,” says Dr. Bessich. “With CT scans emitting less radiation than before and lung cancer screening widely available, the incidence of finding lung lesions is a lot higher. As a result, we’re seeing more patients needing biopsies and need a really accurate way to get to these lesions.” Increasing Diagnostic Yield Robotic bronchoscopy builds on technical and procedural advances for minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules developed since the introduction of endobronchial ultrasound in the 1990s. It allows for fine control of bronchoscopic navigation by replacing hand-directed movements with electronic control mechanisms. An ultrathin, ultra-flexible catheter allows navigation far into the periphery of the lung, enabling the precision needed for biopsy. “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin.” “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin,” Dr. Murthy explains. Once a target is identified, the three-dimensional image displays airway trees and automatically generates a path and anatomic borders to maximize safety. Dr. Bessich says the robot has a much better yield than all prior navigational software in finding, accessing and biopsying suspicious nodules. “It used to be that if a patient needed biopsy of a lymph node, we would do that procedure separately, and the nodule would often be accessed via CT-guided biopsy, coming from the outside of the chest. Now, with the improved yield from robotic bronchoscopy, we’re doing them both together and potentially eliminating the need for a second procedure.” Enhancing Cancer Diagnosis The interventional pulmonology team is working with NYU Langone neurology colleague Daniel Orringer, MD , to combine robotic bronchoscopy with in evaluating nodules they suspect are cancerous—without destroying any more tissue than necessary. Raman spectroscopy is a light scattering technique that stimulates cells and tissue and captures a high-fidelity graphic image, which is colored to resemble a hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) pathologic stain. “Because of the quality, SRH (stimulated Raman histology) allows pathologists to look for signature cancer cells. They feel more comfortable because it looks like the familiar H&E stain,” Dr. Bessich says. “When we do forceps biopsies, we need to take eight to 10 samples; we are giving them one or two samples from SRH to analyze.” Currently, pathologists aren’t reviewing the images in real time; the pulmonologists are saving the images and sending to them. The hope moving forward is that with robotic bronchoscopy, they will eventually have real time, on-site confirmation that peripheral pulmonary lesions need ablation or resection. Future Directions As they employ robotic bronchoscopy for more and more cases, Drs. Bessich and Murthy are using the artificial intelligence features of the equipment, teaching it to distinguish cancerous lesions from noncancerous. “The more airways we go into and the more pictures we get, the more accurate it gets,” Dr. Bessich says. Their goal is to identify the minimum volume of tissue needed for any molecular or genetic testing an oncologist wants completed. Their eventual hope is to be able to apply therapeutics using the robotic bronchoscope. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” “Robotic bronchoscopy has revolutionized our approach,” Dr. Bessich says. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” Vivek Murthy, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the associate director of the Interventional Pulmonary Program. His research focuses on immune system responses to lung cancer and cancer-directed immunotherapy, as well as the development of novel minimally invasive treatment approaches. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? The cost over one year of ranibizumab PDS with refills pro re nata (PRN) versus the cost of real-world regimens of ranibizumab, aflibercept, and bevacizumab injections. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Ophthalmol . 2022;140(7):716-723. A mean number of 9.3 aflibercept injections, 10.8 ranibizumab injections, or 58.1 bevacizumab injections would be needed to break even with the cost of ranibizumab PDS with 1 refill. ADAPTED FROM: While neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) only represents 10 to 15 percent of AMD cases , it was responsible for 90 percent of AMD-related visual impairment before the introduction of injectable anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents. However, increasing use of these agents contributes significantly to costs, and frequent (e.g., monthly) intravitreal injections can cause problems for some patients, due to factors such as location, drug access, health literacy, and fear of injections. In 2022, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first port delivery system (PDS) with sustained delivery of ranibizumab through implantation, which requires initial surgery with office refills as often as every 6 months. “The negative aspect of intravitreal injections is that they need to be administered roughly every 1 to 3 months, depending on the patient,” says , retina specialist and director of healthcare delivery research for the Department of Ophthalmology. “The purpose of this new device is to act as a drug reservoir, which is surgically implanted into the eye and refilled every 6 months or longer.” A recent study in JAMA Ophthalmology led by Dr. Parikh and colleagues at NYU Langone Health investigated costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections versus ranibizumab PDS for patients with nAMD. The team found that in most clinical scenarios, ranibizumab PDS costs more than bevacizumab in all scenarios studied. For ranibizumab and aflibercept injections, ranibizumab PDS may confer cost savings if monthly injection regimens are required. Yet real-world data suggest bimonthly regimens are more common. “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections.” “Based on our findings, for most patients, the best course of action for patient safety, practicality for monitoring, and cost is to continue the current paradigm of coming into the office to receive injections,” Dr. Parikh adds. “For patients who are home bound, live in rural areas, have access issues, or no family support, the PDS system may be a good option, but what is best for patients is to still be monitored regularly, which for now requires in-person visits.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and Apellis Pharmaceuticals. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney The patient’s Tc-99m PYP scan on admission. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Three Failing Organs and a Rare Autoimmune Disease Almost 15 years ago, a then-26-year-old man with a history of Goodpasture syndrome received a kidney transplant from his brother. In 2021, he presented to an emergency room in Brooklyn with symptoms of severe heart failure. After his symptoms progressed, he was referred to cardiologist , an assistant professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health’s , who found evidence of restrictive cardiomyopathy—highly unusual for someone his age. After an initial echocardiogram and PYP scan, Dr. Kadosh established a working diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis; however, given the patient’s age, he was sent for confirmatory genetic testing, which ruled out hereditary amyloidosis. A follow-up endomyocardial biopsy was also conducted and was consistent with this finding. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant,” Dr. Kadosh says. “We didn’t know exactly what was wrong, but we knew what the treatment was—he needed a heart transplant.” As the patient’s condition continued to deteriorate, further tests revealed that he would also need a lung and kidney transpant. “His pulmonary pressures were extremely high and irreversible,” Dr. Kadosh explains. “The kidney that he’d received years earlier was rapidly failing.” After a multidisciplinary discussion, specialists from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute decided the patient needed a triple organ transplant: heart, lungs, and kidney. He was admitted to the hospital, where he waited for two months until a suitable donor became available. In March 2022, a team of transplant surgeons including Deane E. Smith, MD Jonathan Berger , MD , and clinical specialists conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs he needed, making this the first successful triple transplant for heart, lungs, and kidney in the Northeast. Three months after surgery, the patient is doing well, with additional diagnostic studies ongoing. “Due to consistently high calcium levels, our working diagnosis is tertiary hyperparathyroidism as a result of the failed kidney transplant, but we are still waiting for more definitive results,” Dr. Kadosh says. “Few transplant programs would have the expertise to take on a case like this due to the high degree of technical complexity,” Dr. Kadosh observes. “Our unique skills and experience, combined with our robust clinical infrastructure, gave us certainty that we could be successful.” An Unexpected Finding: Not Amyloidosis On admission, the patient’s PYP scan was highly positive, the most positive that Dr. Kadosh and team had ever seen, yet genetic testing and endomyocardical biopsy confirmed that the diagnosis was not cardiac amyloidosis. High Pulmonary Pressures The patient’s CT scan after his initial workup. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff A CT scan showed irreversible pulmonary hypertension, indicating that the patient could not undergo a heart and kidney transplant alone—he would not survive the surgery. Other tests revealed the kidney he received almost two decades earlier was rapidly failing. A Complex Procedure SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient was admitted into the hospital, and had to wait two months for a suitable donor. A large team of doctors and nurses from the NYU Langone Transplant Institute conducted a 13-hour operation to successfully transplant the organs. Massive Calcification A stained slide showing calcification in myocytes. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Surgical pathology from the cardiac explant revealed extensive microcalcification within the myocyte cytoplasm and cardiac interstitium involving the entire left ventricle and both atria. Further studies showed consistently elevated serum calcium and parathyroid hormone levels, suggesting the cause of his symptoms was tertiary hyperparathyroidism secondary to the failing kidney graft. Bernard S. Kadosh, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a cardiologist at the Heart Failure Advanced Care Center. His research and clinical interests include cardiomyopathy, novel therapies for heart failure, and improving outcomes in cardiogenic shock and heart transplantation. Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 ECMO machine. PHOTO: iStockPhotos Patients with severe COVID-19 who were supported with venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV-ECMO) experienced high rates of lung recovery and noteworthy long-term outcomes at one year, according to research published in The Annals of Thoracic Surgery Of 415 patients with confirmed COVID-19 admitted to the ICU at NYU Langone Health between March 10 and May 1, 2020, a multidisciplinary ECMO team selected 30 patients for VV-ECMO. Of those selected, 93.3 percent survived to discharge either to home or to acute rehabilitation. At a follow-up of nearly one year, 86.7 percent of those treated with ECMO were surviving, including one patient who underwent lung transplantation. “Our work suggests that with appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival,” says eane E. Smith, M , an associate professor in the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery. “These patients who leave the hospital without the need for oxygen therapy are very likely to remain alive and well one year later.” “With appropriately selected patients and aggressive management strategies, the use of ECMO support for severe COVID-19 can result in exceptional survival.” Deane E. Smith, MD. Minimizing Ventilator Damage Most of the patients admitted to the ICU —77.8 percent—were intubated for mechanical ventilatory support. While conventional mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 has been associated with mortality greater than 50 percent , in some cases VV-ECMO may result in decreased ventilator support, minimizing damage to the lungs and allowing them to begin healing. “These patients received ECMO for severe COVID-19 during the height of the pandemic in New York City—at a time when very little was known about the likelihood for success,” Dr. Smith notes. The VV-ECMO patients were hospitalized for a median of 45 days and supported on ECMO for a median of 19 days. Results were encouraging: no patients left the hospital ventilator dependent, and only one patient required supplemental oxygen. Value of Patient Selection and Standardized Approach Patient selection was a significant factor in the success of VV-ECMO, according to Dr. Smith. “We were struck by the number of young, otherwise healthy patients who were dying from the disease. We felt patient selection was very important,” he says. The technology was not considered a “bailout” or salvage therapy but was offered to patients believed to have a reasonable chance for survival. “We did not feel that using ECMO to have patients survive simply to go to long-term facilities debilitated and ventilator-dependent was successful,” Dr. Smith adds. “We believed that we could protect the lungs and allow patients to return to their normal lives at the end of it.” A standardized approach to patient management and lung protection was equally valuable. The protocol included not deviating from lung protective ventilation strategies, early tracheostomy and frequent bronchoscopy, treatment of coinfection, and standardization of an anticoagulation regimen. Additionally, to help improve oxygenation, the team frequently positioned patients who were not recovering as quickly as expected in a prone position. “Most of these things, such as bronchoscopy or tracheostomy, were not considered safe in patients with COVID-19 at the start of the pandemic,” Dr. Smith says. “Our team was aggressive with these interventions much earlier than most hospitals Follow-up and Recovery Even in the patient who went on to require lung transplantation, the research team concluded that a period of rehabilitation was important to facilitate quicker recovery from his transplant surgery. “We learned that lung recovery is possible. When the pandemic started, that was not clear,” Dr. Smith says. Deane E. Smith, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery. He is director of the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation Program, co-director of the Thoracic Aortic Disease Program, and associate director of Heart Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Alzheimers Dement . 2022 May;18:899-910. Study participants included those who had been hospitalized with COVID-19 as well as patients without COVID-19 representing a spectrum of cognitive function. . 2022 May;18:899-910. The study showed neurodegenerative biomarkers to be elevated in COVID-19 patients. A new paper published in Alzheimer’s and Dementia finds that key biomarkers of neurodegeneration are elevated in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 , potentially providing insight into the growing evidence of significant neurological effects in survivors of the illness . Some biomarkers matched or exceeded levels observed in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “Our study identified elevations of several blood-based markers specific to the central nervous system, including neuronal and glial markers,” says Jennifer A. Frontera, MD , who led the NYU Langone Health research team and is a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. “The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function,” says study co-author The finding that markers of neurodegeneration are high in patients with severe COVID-19—who have no prior history of cognitive decline—adds support to the idea that the extended states of hypoxia and hyperinflammation in these patients may be having a significant impact on brain function Of the 251 patients with COVID-19 included in the study, 48 percent had new neurological events occur during hospitalization, with toxic-metabolic encephalopathy being the most common diagnosis. Overall, the neurodegenerative biomarkers found to correlate most strongly with COVID-19 severity and risk of encephalopathy were total tau (t-tau), phosphorylated tau-181 (p-tau181), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL). Strikingly, levels of three biomarkers—GFAP, NfL, and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase 1 (UCHL1)—were as high or even higher in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 than in non-COVID patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes in survivors of COVID-19,” says Dr. Frontera. “More research is needed to track the trajectories of these biomarkers and their associations with poor cognitive outcomes.” Jennifer A. Frontera, MD￼ Jennifer A. Frontera, MD, is a professor of neurology and a member of the World Health Organization’s Brain Health Neurology and COVID-19 Forum. She specializes in vascular neurology and neurocritical care. offers consulting services to individual clients and businesses across the metropolitan area. As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing injuries and disability in the workplace. product design and biomechanical analysis . Our team works closely with each client to develop feasible and practical solutions that benefit both employees and organizations. Ergonomic Evaluations for Individuals offers ergonomic evaluations and recommendations for people who experience any type of discomfort while or after performing work activities. Such worksite accommodations may include suggestions about different ways to perform job tasks or recommendations to change a desk, chair, or other elements of the work setting. This service is also available to people who work from home and want to ensure their home office is comfortable and safe. Our team also conducts department-wide ergonomic interventions, in which we involve end users, supervisors, upper management, and other key personnel. Physical therapy can help people return to daily activities, including work, as quickly as possible and is the foundation of . We provide physical therapy, focusing on functional performance, aerobic conditioning and musculoskeletal fitness, pain control, education, ergonomic awareness, and work conditioning. Physical Therapy Treatment for Individuals Our treatment programs are individually designed to meet each person’s goals and are based on evaluations performed by a licensed physical therapist. Treatment typically occurs 2 to 3 times per week and takes 45 minutes to 1 hour to complete. Patients are expected to be active participants in their rehabilitation and are given the tools they need to become independent in their physical therapy program. The overall goals are to restore patients to their previous functional capabilities and enable them to return to their normal activities, including work. Our physical therapy program offers a proactive approach to treatment, in which you work with a therapist to incorporate the activities of daily life and job demands into a functional rehabilitation program. This includes an individualized approach to education and functional rehabilitation. We provide the tools you need to understand and manage pain and function. Our physical therapists are trained in the prevention and management of spine conditions, chronic pain, and occupational disorders. They are part of a team that includes a medical advisor, a psychiatrist, and a psychologist and are skilled in psychologically informed physical therapy, an approach that takes into consideration patient needs when developing a treatment plan. They coordinate referrals to other specialists, if necessary. Patient progress is monitored on a regular basis and discussed in weekly team meetings when necessary. Our physical therapy team is specially trained to treat the following people: those with all types of musculoskeletal conditions those with chronic pain those who are not responding to traditional treatments those who have emotional distress because of pain those who are preparing or recovering from surgery those who are focused on returning to work after an injury The evidence-based return to work program at is designed for people who have been out of work and need intense conditioning and retraining to meet the demands of their jobs. Our team—working in cooperation with case managers, human resources departments, and unions—evaluates and treats people with pain. The person with the injury participates in an intensive and comprehensive program that simulates their job demands whenever possible and is individualized to fit their specific needs. The goal is to prepare patients functionally and psychologically to return to work within two to four weeks after entering the program. Our program has a success rate of 95 percent for returning a person to any type of work, and a success rate of 90 percent for returning a person to their previous position. Before acceptance into the program, the medical advisor at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, a New York State–licensed physical therapist, and a licensed psychologist specializing in occupational orthopedics perform thorough medical, functional, and behavioral evaluations. This gives us a baseline functional assessment and is used to customize an appropriate rehabilitation program. The 4-week program is held for 4 hours a day, 5 days per week, for up to 80 total hours. Daily activities consist of patient education, intense physical work conditioning, and pain and stress management sessions. Conferences with attending physicians or other healthcare providers, such as nutritionists, are also offered. The program includes a weekly assessment of the patient’s progress expectations and short- and long-term functional goals, as well as a biweekly evaluation by the team’s physician. Ergonomic assessments are provided as needed. , we offer evidence-based psychological services to help people manage pain, and provide stress management techniques to help break the stress–pain cycle. Our cognitive behavioral approach to pain stresses the interaction between beliefs, attitudes, behaviors, and disability. We strive to provide you with tools you can use to manage pain and stress. This service is provided to people who may benefit from an interdisciplinary approach to physical therapy, as well as those who are struggling to cope with chronic pain. Cognitive Behavioral Pain Management Program Our psychologist works closely with your physical therapist and physician to provide collaborative care of the highest quality, so that you can return to a productive and satisfying life. Treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy is usually brief, lasting only about two to eight sessions. However, long-term treatment is also available. The cognitive behavioral pain management program starts with a comprehensive assessment conducted by a licensed psychologist specializing in pain management. As part of this program, we offer the following services: evaluation of a person’s stress level, symptoms, and coping skills at home and work education about the relationship between stress and pain, ways of monitoring one’s stress levels, and techniques for relaxing, coping, and problem-solving take home exercises and materials to encourage ongoing participation in stress management techniques referrals for people who may need additional support Presurgical Cognitive Behavioral Program The idea of surgery can be overwhelming. Our psychologists evaluate the stress levels of people who are preparing for surgery and provide cognitive behavioral therapy to address their specific concerns. Patients attend up to half a dozen 30-minute therapy sessions where they receive pain education; pre- and post-surgery coping strategies, such as relaxation with guided imagery; and planning for after surgery, including identifying sources of support and managing expectations about recovery. Medical Services for Individuals & Companies is part of a large network of orthopedic specialists at that comprises physicians and healthcare providers who have a particular interest in musculoskeletal disorders and the prevention of disability. Medical Evaluations Medical evaluations are important to determine the best treatment plan and the coordination of care. They may also be of interest to those who wish to seek a second opinion about a medical condition or treatment recommendation, such as surgery or work conditioning programs. We provide board-certified specialty evaluation of musculoskeletal injuries and disorders by our on-site medical advisor and offer additional resources through our affiliation with NYU Langone’s Spine Center. When appropriate, referrals are made for diagnostic procedures, specialist consultations, or physical therapy. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy Orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health, led by , professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery , have pioneered a minimally invasive in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) system, known as NanoScope. Featuring a 1.9-millimeter needle scope and suite of tools, the system is rapidly replacing more involved surgeries and dramatically reducing patients’ return to work and play times Dr. Kennedy is now training orthopedic surgeon Arianna Gianakos, DO, under a first-of-its kind IONA fellowship. Here, they discuss the procedure’s promising future. About the IONA Approach and Its Advantages What makes this in-office needle arthroscopy approach so unique? Dr. Kennedy: IONA is relatively new, and we were the first in the world to use this chip-on-tip technology. Until recently, there were devices that offered limited visualization, but nobody had the ability to do anything beyond make or confirm a diagnosis. Now, we have a range of 2-millimeter instruments that allow us to repair or replace cartilage injuries and defects, take away scar tissue, and even deliver biologic agents. We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward. “We can perform procedures in a clinic setting that had previously been done in an operating room, and because the soft tissue trauma is so small, most patients are able to walk off the table afterward.” Already, we have published a number of papers showing patient outcomes, including return to play times, are reduced by an order of magnitude in comparison to what we would be doing in an operating room. Dr. Gianakos, as the first fellow to be trained formally on this procedure, what are your goals for learning this technique? Dr. Gianakos: After I completed a year of foot and ankle specialty training at Massachusetts General Hospital, I wanted to further specialize in sports medicine at a leading center in the field. My goal for learning the NanoScope system is to help transfer the technology and training up to Yale. That will also allow us to collaborate with NYU Langone and other top-notch institutions like Yale, Harvard, Amsterdam Medical Center, and Fortius Clinic in London so we can collaborate on future projects and research. The NanoScope system allows you as the surgeon to show patients their procedure in real time. What’s the advantage? The patient, under local anesthetic, can observe everything and be very much part of the procedure. The result is a much better understanding than if I were to have to explain or draw what I did after a procedure. I can get them to move their ankle or knee and illustrate how things have improved even as we’re doing it. If there’s a divot out of their talus, patients love to see how we’re going in, putting in a scaffold, and adding a biologic to it. The divot’s gone, and now they know because they can see it. What’s Possible with IONA What kinds of procedures are currently possible with this system? My initial focus is impingement cases and being able to debride both soft tissue and bony injuries, cartilage injuries. We can also correct osteochondral defects and perform microfracture and biocartilage surgeries. We’re writing up a report on the technique for ATFL (anterior talo-fibular ligament) injuries that we’ll be presenting at the international ISAKOS Congress. Dr. Kennedy is focused on tendoscopy procedures as well, which is an area in which many foot and ankle fellows don’t get much training in primary fellowships. After a more conventional surgery for an ankle sprain, for example, soccer players would be back playing within eight weeks. When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement. “When patients have an ATFL reconstruction with this device, they’re up and walking within a couple of days, back training within two weeks, and can return to play within four weeks. It’s a massive improvement.” Dr. Gianakos, how else has this technology aided your research? I’m currently working towards my PhD, which is in gender differences in foot and ankle surgery. Dr. Kennedy has been very supportive and is on a lot of my presentations and research projects, and this technology has helped some things come to light. My hands are a different size than Dr. Kennedy’s hands, for example. How does that impact how the new pen instrumentation and camera fit? I’m also exploring how men and women are responding to watching the surgery and asking questions about it. Improving Patient Care with IONA Where do you see this technique heading in improving patient care? Originally, we were doing lots of debridements, but now we have the ability to build as well as remove tissue or debris. We’re building ligaments where we’re putting in scaffolds for cartilage repair and regeneration. For years, the field was delivering biologic agents like platelet-rich plasma or bone marrow or fat in a fairly haphazard way. Now we have precision-guided delivery. We can see where the problem is, see what is the best biologic used to address it, and deliver it exactly where it needs to be. We are constantly evolving. For instance, we can do a menisectomy and even meniscal repair and labral ligament release here in the office now. We’re minimizing the instrument size so that we can minimize the soft tissue damage or trauma to maximize the patient’s outcome. By doing so, I really feel that we’re heading for the next step: a lot of what we do in an operating room now will not be done there in five years’ time. Dr. Kennedy is a paid consultant for Arthrex, which produces the NanoScope. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment With catheter ablation not an option, multidisciplinary team completes an innovative radioablation. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Award-winning researcher uncovers impact of cardiovascular events on tumor recurrence. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Cholesterol levels spiked during the pandemic among groups already at risk. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in landmark ACTIV-4A trial. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Researchers find improved symptoms in a first-of-its kind clinical trial. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure First-of-its-kind center will advance basic science, trials, and training on clinical benefits of psychedelics. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting This March 7–11, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in Las Vegas At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty presented 77 posters, 31 papers, 32 videos, and 38 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). See our AAOS Booth Agenda here Tuesday, March In-Office Needle Arthroscopy for Treatment of Anterior Ankle Impingement Orthopaedic Video Theater (Award Winners) Ajay C. Kanakamedala, MD; Christopher Colasanti, MD; Dylan T. Lowe, MD; Eoghan Hurley, PhD, MCH, MBCHB; John G. Kennedy, MD, Mohammad T. Azam, BS 7 am 5 pm Thursday, March The Long-term Effect of Intraoperative Hip Fracture Injections (HiFI) on Function and Patient Reported Outcomes: A Randomized Controlled Trial Poster Presentation: Trauma Rivka Chinyere Ihejirika-Lomedico, MD; Nathan August Lorentz, MD; Sara Jo Solasz, BA; Kenneth A. Egol, MD, FAAOS; Philipp Leucht, MD, FAAOS Friday, March 1 PO 564 – Second Dose of Dexamethasone Reduces Postoperative Opioid Consumption, Pain, and Length of Stay in Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty Adult Reconstruction Knee Christian T. Oakley, BS; Jerry Arraut, BS; Joshua C. Rozell, MD; Kyle W. Lawrence, BS; Mark A. Kurapatti, BS; Omid S. Barzideh, MD, FAAOS; Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, FAAOS 9:05 am Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) may closely resemble epileptic seizures, complicating diagnosis and management. Patients with PNES benefit from specialty care for their atypical seizures that lack abnormal neuronal epileptiform activity However, despite a high prevalence rate (2-33 per 100,000) in the general population, the pathogenesis of PNES is not well-understood and treatment options remain limited. “Functional neurological disorders, including PNES, pose a frustrating challenge for both psychiatrists and neurologists,” says Deepti Anbarasan, MD , a triple board-certified specialist in neurology, psychiatry, and epilepsy. “Due to various reasons including the complexity of their neuropsychiatric symptoms, providers may feel ill-equipped to debrief patients about the diagnosis in the acute care setting and ensure appropriate outpatient follow-up.” Dr. Anbarasan is uniquely positioned to treat patients with functional neurological disorders (FNDs) such as PNES. Her approach uses a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), mindfulness-based interventions, and pharmacotherapy in the inpatient and outpatient settings to improve symptoms and quality of life. High Unmet Need Primary ownership of patients with PNES has remained a subject of contention in the neurology and psychiatry communities, making management of these patients continually challenging, says Dr. Anbarasan. In part, this may be explained by the lack of a single etiological model for PNES and the absence of a liable universal phenotype for this condition. From the psychological perspective, patients with PNES exhibit a simultaneous existence of both hyperarousal responses (e.g., hypervigilance, somatic preoccupation, emotional reactivity) and hypoarousal responses (e.g., dissociation, alexithymia, avoidance). From the neurological perspective, recent structural and functional studies have begun to uncover the neurobiological underpinnings of PNES and other FNDs. “We know that PNES has a high association with a history of prior physical or sexual abuse, as well as medical comorbidities, such as mild traumatic brain injury, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and chronic pain syndrome,” says Dr. Anbarasan. Diagnosis and Treatment While the differential for PNES is broad, diagnosis is usually established using video electroencephalography monitoring. Specifically, the recorded spell must be confirmed as being typical of what occurs in daily life. Prompt diagnosis allows for more rapid implementation of appropriate psychological and psychiatric interventions and cessation of antiepileptic drugs, if necessary, says Dr. Anbarasan. Medications may be necessary for some patients, especially if they have comorbid psychiatric conditions like post-traumatic stress disorder or major depressive disorder. Other treatment strategies include hypnosis, biofeedback, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing , which integrates aspects of several psychotherapies. Reducing Stigma Dr. Anbarasan hopes to encourage medical professionals to refer patients with PNES and other neuropsychiatric conditions for specialist management. “Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” “PNES is a real condition that arises in response to circumstances in patients’ lives. Recovery from past trauma, in addition to the seizures, depends largely on their ability to overcome the stigma and follow-up with a mental health professional.” Deepti Anbarasan, MD, is a clinical associate professor of psychiatry and neurology. Her clinical interest lies in the management of mood and behavioral disturbances associated with epilepsy and other neurodegenerative disorders. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 In April 2021, —an internationally recognized expert on anxiety, stress and prolonged grief—gave a talk entitled “The Mental Health Impact of the COVID Pandemic: A Major Life Stressor” as part of a video lecture series produced by the National Institutes of Health COVID-19 Scientific Interest Group. Dr. Simon covered topics including the pandemic as a life stressor; current knowledge about its relationship to stressor-related conditions; COVID-specific factors that increase risk for negative mental health outcomes; and therapeutic approaches to supporting mental wellness after the death of a loved one. The lecture expanded on themes Dr. Simon had explored with two colleagues— , the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Psychiatry and chair of Psychiatry, and Glenn Saxe, MD , professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry—in a viewpoint published in October 2020 in the Journal of the American Medical Association . The paper was among the first to highlight and propose a set of public health strategies to mitigate one of the widespread mental health impacts of the pandemic: the toll of mass bereavement. “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk.” “Our previous research on traumatic stress and prolonged grief led us to recommend an approach involving three distinct and interrelated strategies based on graduated levels of risk,” Dr. Simon explains. A Tiered Response to the Impact of Mass Death As described in JAMA, effective mental health response to the losses of the pandemic requires a tiered approach. After a death occurs, PCPs can use validated screening tools—such as the PTSD Checklist and the Prolonged Grief 13 questionnaire—to identify family or friends who are at highest risk of developing mental health conditions. For individuals identified at risk, or who have acquired disorders related to their loss, the goal is to deliver evidence-based interventions to return pathological manifestations of bereavement to their normal grief trajectories. Ideally, such interventions could be implemented within primary care or community settings. However, an additional role for primary care is to identify individuals with highest risk and complexity, who should be referred to a specialist. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement. Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” This strategy requires that training resources be offered to PCPs and community mental health practitioners about grief and traumatic distress and their variable course. Such training should include tools for assessing and treating bereavement-related mental health conditions. “One of the challenges of the pandemic has been its disruption of social networks and rituals that can help people cope with death and bereavement,” Dr. Simon observes. “Clinicians can help bereaved families find creative ways to safely honor traditions, memorialize the deceased, and improve social support.” A Roadmap for Treating At-Risk Children via Telehealth The pandemic’s disruptions have been especially challenging for two groups of children: those with mental health disorders, and those at risk of maltreatment by family members. Clinicians and caseworkers have often been forced to rely on video chats rather than home visits. Meanwhile, the pandemic has created conditions that can exacerbate a child’s behavioral problems or their vulnerability to abuse. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7.” To help mental health clinicians and caseworkers navigate this difficult terrain, Dr. Saxe and colleagues in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry developed a series of 11 tip sheets for remotely administering Trauma Systems Therapy (TST)—a model pioneered by Dr. Saxe and widely adopted by child-welfare agencies—in a COVID-19 context. “Many families were on edge before COVID-19 started, but now they’re facing issues ranging from added financial pressures to being in close proximity 24/7,” Dr. Saxe says. “COVID has created a whole new landscape. We’re trying to create a roadmap for moving forward.” Disseminated through a national network of centers that use TST, the tip sheets offer guidance on topics such as problem determination; assessment of environmental stability and safety; building emotional regulation skills; and keeping children and caregivers engaged in the therapeutic process. “Some of the most crucial advice concerns how caregivers can take care of themselves and their teams,” Dr. Saxe adds. “Leaders should assure their staffs that efforts are being taken to protect them. Administrators should share information in a transparent way. We all need to take our own emotional temperature, identify activities that help us cope, and check in with each other regularly.” Glenn Saxe, MD, is a professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry. He serves as director of the Trauma Systems Training Center, the primary center for the training and dissemination of Trauma Systems Therapy in the U.S. He is also director of the Center for Child Welfare Practice Innovation, a center of the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. His research focuses on psychiatric consequences of traumatic events in children and on factors that contribute to risk and resilience in the face of adversity. Naomi M. Simon, MD, professor of psychiatry, is vice chair for Research Faculty Development and Mentorship and the director of the Anxiety and Prolonged Grief Program. Her research interests focus on improving the understanding and treatment of prolonged grief, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality In April 2021, a multi-institutional team led by NYU Langone Health researchers published the first study to evaluate potential increased risk of death from SARS-CoV-2 infection in individuals with psychiatric diagnoses. The results, reported in , received widespread attention from policy makers and the scientific community. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon. Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” Katlyn Nemani, MD While the team had hypothesized that the risk of death would be highest for patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, the magnitude of that risk was unexpected—nearly three times that of patients without a psychiatric disorder. Other researchers soon replicated these findings , both in the United States and elsewhere. Since publishing their initial research, lead author , a research assistant professor of psychiatry, and colleagues including senior author Donald C. Goff, MD , vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, have been further investigating the causes of this striking disparity. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon,” Dr. Nemani explains. “Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” An Increased Risk Revealed In the initial study, the investigators analyzed EHRs of 7,348 adult COVID-19 patients in the NYU Langone Health system in New York City and on Long Island between March 3 and May 31, 2020. Of these, they identified 14 percent who were diagnosed with schizophrenia, mood disorders, or anxiety. They then calculated patient death rates within 45 days of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Risk of mortality was assessed after controlling for age, sex, race, and known medical risk factors. Patients with schizophrenia proved to be by far the most vulnerable subgroup in the mental illness cohort. The team’s findings placed schizophrenia second only to age in strength of an association with mortality among all demographic and medical risk factors examined in the sample. The CDC subsequently added schizophrenia and other mental health conditions to the list of comorbidities that increase the risk of severe COVID-19. A New Insight: Antipsychotics and COVID-19 Risk One crucial question following the initial study was whether psychiatric medications might play a role in raising schizophrenia patients’ odds of dying from COVID-19—a possibility suggested by population studies showing an association between heightened risk and prior antipsychotic use. In a research letter published in September in , Drs. Nemani and Goff, along with other NYU Langone colleagues, reported new findings suggesting that this association may be related to underlying psychiatric diagnosis rather than its treatment. They analyzed the EHRs of 464 COVID-19 patients who had been previously diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar disorder. Of these patients, 196 were treated with antipsychotics. The primary end point was death within 60 days of COVID-19 diagnosis. Once again, adjusted risk of mortality was nearly threefold higher for patients in the schizophrenia spectrum group than for the reference population. However, mortality rates were equivalent in antipsychotic users and non-users. Continuing to Seek an Explanation Dr. Nemani continues to investigate the factors affecting COVID-19 outcomes in patients with schizophrenia. In a study currently in submission, she and her team looked at the association between specific antipsychotics and risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. They found no antipsychotic medication that increased infection risk, and a few that decreased it. She also plans to study how patients with schizophrenia respond to COVID-19 vaccines compared to healthy patients. “Some evidence suggests patients with schizophrenia have premature aging of the immune system,” she explains. “A decline in immune function may contribute to their vulnerability to severe infection. This may also lead to a diminished response to vaccines.” “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses.” Adds Dr. Goff, “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses. And it will advance our understanding of a mental disorder that’s associated with heightened risk of mortality even in the absence of a global pandemic.” Donald C. Goff, MD, is the Marvin Stern Professor of Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, and director of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research. He has published more than 300 articles on the management and treatment of schizophrenia. Katlyn Nemani, MD, is a research assistant professor of psychiatry. Her research is focused on understanding the bidirectional relationship between systemic disease and psychopathology, particularly the interaction between the nervous and immune systems in people with psychosis. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery The post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The multidisciplinary conference yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. Surgery for adult spinal deformities carries a high rate of intra- and postoperative complications, reoperations, and readmissions. A retrospective cohort study of 263 adult patients led by researchers at NYU Langone Health’s found that implementing a preoperative multidisciplinary conference to discuss high-risk cases led to striking gains in multiple quality and safety metrics. The conference, added to the weekly spine surgery indications conference starting in February 2019, included experts in orthopedic spine surgery, neurosurgery spine, anesthesia, intraoperative monitoring neurology, and neurological intensive care. Compared to 167 consecutive patient cases before the launch of the conference, 96 post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. One exception to the overall improvement in complications was an increase in hypotensive episodes requiring vasopressors, a finding the researchers say could be attributable to the higher average age of patients in the post-conference group but one that did not lead to a longer length of stay or higher readmission rate. The multidisciplinary conference, in fact, yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. Those gains may be attributable to appropriate patient selection and optimization of the surgical plan, according to study co-author , associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “Spinal deformity surgery is one of the most complicated and high-risk operations in our field,” Dr. Fischer says. “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ X-ray showing screw and cement placement after CT-guided ablation of pelvic lesion. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Safer Intervention for Pelvic Lesions Reduces Pain and Improves Mobility A woman in her 50s presented to the NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn emergency department after a work-related fall. She reported severe pain in her right hip that had persisted for months and x-rays revealed lesions on her spine. Physicians diagnosed her with multiple myeloma with involvement in the spine and pelvis, and surgeons performed a percutaneous stabilization of her spine using bone cement. The traditional surgery for ablation and stabilization of periacetabular pelvic lesions, the modified Harrington procedure, carries a high complication rate. Instead, a team led by Karim Masrouha, MD , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, performed one of the first surgeries of its kind in the New York metropolitan region. In collaboration with NYU Langone Health’s Division of Musculoskeletal Imaging , the surgical team used a cone beam CT scan and software to map out the precise entry point and trajectory for a minimally invasive pelvic tumor ablation. After the probe-aided ablation, Dr. Masrouha inserted a stainless steel screw and cement to provide stability to the patient’s pelvic bone. “With a tiny incision, it allows us to take care of the tumor, fill in the space with cement, and put in a screw that acts like rebar,” he says. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique. It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” The morning after the surgery, the patient reported being pain-free in her right hip for the first time in months. After being bedbound for several weeks, she was able to get up and begin walking again on her own. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique compared to the conventional alternative,” Dr. Masrouha says. “It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” A CT-Guided Approach to Pelvic Tumor Ablation Precise entry and trajectory for probe-aided periacetabular pelvic tumor ablation. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging mapped out the trajectory for precise drilling within the patient’s pelvic bone. A musculoskeletal radiologist then inserted a probe to ablate the tumor. Minimally Invasive Screw Insertion and Cement Fixation Stabilize Pelvis Insertion of stabilizing screw and cement into patient’s right hip. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff After tumor ablation, a 12.5-centimeter-long, 7.3-millimeter-diameter stainless steel screw was inserted to the edge of the tumor’s location and cement was injected through the cannulated screw into the cavity. The screw was then advanced to the far end of the ablated lesion to act as a stabilizing rebar within the pelvic bone. Adapted Cone Beam CT-Guided Screw Placement May Yield More Applications Cone beam CT scanning, with potential to accommodate multiple screw trajectories. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging was initially developed for interventional radiology and cardiology. Applying the mapping and minimally invasive technique to pelvic tumor ablation and stabilization has yielded a safer alternative to traditional surgery. The procedure could be adapted for orthopedic applications requiring multiple screw trajectories, such as stabilization after traumatic injury. Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Karim Masrouha, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the New York Ponseti Clubfoot Center. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Drs. Tamas A. Gonda and Christopher Wolfgang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this joint interview, , director of the Pancreatic Disease Program, and , chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, discuss advancements shaping pancreatic cancer care at . They share insight on how novel biomarkers and endoscopically delivered ablation therapy are impacting detection and treatment, and stress the importance of tumor biology when pushing the limits of surgical resection. Progress in Early Detection What advancements are on the horizon to improve early detection of pancreatic cancer? Dr. Gonda: Biomarkers are certainly thought of as being the future of early detection, making it less invasive and broadly available. There is tremendous excitement in this area. One of the promising biomarkers is actually the early detection of diabetes, especially new-onset diabetes. In collaboration with Lauren H. Golden, MD, , we are learning that following people who newly develop diabetes may lead to identifying individuals at risk for pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic imaging has improved and evolved, and novel imaging modalities keep being developed that increase the sensitivity of this technique. I personally think the addition of molecular imaging—being able to detect certain molecular changes by imaging—will be a game changer. Dr. Wolfgang: Liquid biopsy will also improve early detection. Tumors shed DNA, proteins, and vesicles into the circulation. Doing a blood test and being able to detect low levels of mutant DNA, abnormal protein expression, or vesicles that contain abnormal material holds future promise for a liquid biopsy test. Guiding Treatment with Composite Biomarkers Dr. Wolfgang, you are involved in projects using artificial intelligence to develop blood-based tests for pancreatic cancer. What is your hope for this research? When we resect tumors, we leave systemic disease behind. My research is focused on understanding this minimal residual disease, which manifests as circulating or disseminated tumor cells. Consider a patient who fails neoadjuvant treatment, but we don’t learn that they’ve failed until they progress and are no longer a surgical candidate. If we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery. In developing these tests there are several factors to consider, including mutations in cell-free DNA and abnormal protein expression or secretion, and thousands of parameters. We are using machine learning to look for correlations between those thousands of data points and outcome. f we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery.” Minimally Invasive Interventions Dr. Gonda, you are a national leader in endoscopically delivered ablative therapy. Can you tell us more about the promise of this treatment approach? For certain types of tumors of the pancreas and bile ducts, endoscopically delivering thermal ablation or radiofrequency ablation is maturing to be a reasonable treatment approach. While still in the early phases, I think it is going to be an important option for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and pancreatic premalignant lesions, such as cystic lesions. Prevention is almost uniformly equal to surgical resection of a part or all of the pancreas. Endoscopic therapies, whether ablation or injectional therapies, may offer an alternative to surgical approaches. The promise of a minimally invasive approach, especially for pre-cancerous conditions, is very exciting. This is clearly cutting edge, and what makes this work is that at Perlmutter Cancer Center, we function as a multidisciplinary team. We’re not isolated within our specialties. I would second that. As we try to prove equal efficacy of these new less invasive treatments, it is critically important to be in that multidisciplinary discussion. There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision. “There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision.” Resecting Complex Tumors Dr. Wolfgang, would you speak to the innovations making it easier to successfully resect complex tumors? In the realm of making the unresectable resectable, there are two aspects: tumor biology and the technical aspects. You can do the perfect complex operation, but if you haven’t considered each patient’s unique tumor biology—that is, the propensity of an individual tumor for microscopic spread throughout the body—you’re not going to help that patient. It’s not necessarily inventing new operations but having an extremely experienced team and pushing the limits of what can be done with surgery in a smart, safe way. The Architecture of Excellent Care NYU Langone Health is now a National Pancreas Foundation Center of Excellence for both pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. How does this designation influence innovation? As medical centers across the nation build focused pancreatic cancer programs, guidance from the National Pancreas Foundation in what is required for comprehensive care is critically important. Renowned pancreatic cancer experts, Drs. Alex Kimmelman Paul E. Oberstein and Diane M. Simeone, and our numerous colleagues within the , have led the way, and it is exciting that we now offer the same level of multidisciplinary excellence for the care of other pancreatic diseases. Read more from our experts in Tamas A. Gonda, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, chief of endoscopy at Tisch Hospital, and director of the Pancreatic Disease Program within the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. He is an advanced endoscopist and specializes in the management of complex pancreatic and bile duct disease. Christopher Wolfgang, MD, PhD, is professor of surgery and chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. He specializes in the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. His research focuses on understanding mechanisms of tumor recurrence to prevent treatment failure. Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction A displaced hip spacer, destabilized by trochanteric fracture, requires close coordination to secure a permanent implant. Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Promising results from an early study evaluating CBD after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization Research finds no major differences among Eastern and Western populations and surgeons. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis VBT yields better correction of fractional curve and L5 tilt than fusion surgery. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, chief of the Division of Sports Medicine in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, performed a knee arthroscopy with the ArthroFree System to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. Minimally invasive arthroscopic surgery in orthopedics has supplanted more traditional and invasive methods for many procedures, but the technique still relies on wired surgical cameras, light cords, and connected power sources. In September, NYU Langone Health took the next big step in this kind of surgery by successfully completing the first arthroscopy in the United States with an entirely wireless camera system that eliminates the need for the power and light cords. , performed a knee arthroscopy with the advanced technology, the ArthroFree System made by Ohio-based medical technology company Lazurite . The first wireless camera for arthroscopy and general endoscopy had won FDA approval in March 2022. Just six months later, Dr. Jazrawi used the new system at to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. That patient, he says, recovered very well and was back to enjoying activities such as playing paddleball within two weeks. “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room.” “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room,” says Dr. Jazrawi. Among its potential benefits, the system’s elimination of power and light cords can reduce surgical setup and takedown times and costs while permitting more ergonomic and efficient surgical movements. In addition, the absence of fiber-optic cables may improve patient safety by reducing the risk of burns and healthcare-associated infections. “The use of new types of advanced surgical technologies exemplifies our mission to bring patients the most recent advances in orthopedic surgery to improve outcomes and overall satisfaction,” Dr. Jazrawi says. As a follow-up to his first surgery with the wireless camera, Dr. Jazrawi is already enrolling patients in a new clinical study to investigate wireless arthroscopy benefits and capabilities compared to its traditional counterpart. Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA While a second dose of IV dexamethasone slightly raises blood glucose levels in the 24-60 hours after surgery, patients were able to maintain glycemic control, with average glucose levels never exceeding the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications.ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. A second dose of IV dexamethasone lowers patients’ use of opioids, with the most significant differences in the first 48 hours after surgery. ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. For patients with diabetes undergoing a primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA), insufficient glycemic control before, during, and after surgery can lead to complications such as surgical-site infections and poor wound healing. Dexamethasone can reduce postoperative pain, nausea, and vomiting. Like other corticosteroids, however, dexamethasone can increase blood glucose levels, raising concerns about whether a second dose administered to diabetic patients undergoing TKA might complicate their recovery. In a retrospective study of 953 TKA patients, NYU Langone Health researchers found that a second dose of dexamethasone temporarily increased glucose levels compared to only one dose. In both groups of patients, however, average glucose levels never exceeded the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications. Furthermore, the two-dose group consumed fewer opioids in the first 48 hours post-surgery. The study revealed no difference in infection rates, delayed wound healing, or other complications within the 90-day postoperative period. “Using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar.” , won the best podium presentation award at the annual meeting of the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons in 2022 for summarizing his team’s initial findings. “My recommendation would be that using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar,” he says. Dr. Rozell cautions that diabetic patients must be closely monitored for blood glucose levels. “Clinicians should make sure to utilize a multimodal pain protocol with various non-opioid analgesics that can synergistically work to decrease pain level after surgery,” he adds. The study, he says, affirms that despite its transient effect on glucose control, dexamethasone can be a safe and effective part of that analgesic mix, even for diabetics. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Study shows prior bariatric surgery improves COVID-19 outcomes. Comparing patients who had bariatric surgery (bariatric cases, n = 124) and patients who were eligible but didn’t have bariatric surgery (bariatric controls, n= 496), admission through the emergency department (ED) was 50.8 versus 69.0 percent, ventilation was used for 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, intensive care unit (ICU) admission was 8.1 versus 14.7 percent, length of stay over 1 day was 41.4 versus 59.7 percent, and those deceased at discharge were 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, respectively. ADAPTED FROM: Surg Obes Relat Dis . 2021 Nov;17(11):1840-1845. For patients with severe obesity, bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of hospitalization and death from COVID-19, according to a study published in Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases The retrospective analysis compared outcomes between patients with COVID-19 and a history of bariatric surgery to a matched control cohort of patients with COVID-19 who were eligible for, but with no history of, bariatric surgery. The researchers used a 1:4 cases-to-controls matching ratio based on age and sex. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19.” Among other improved outcomes, prior bariatric surgery was shown to significantly decrease the risk of emergency department admission, mechanical ventilation, prolonged ICU stay, and death after COVID-19 diagnosis. Led by investigators , clinical assistant professor of surgery, and , chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery, the study suggests that protection against COVID-19 may be an extended benefit of bariatric surgery in this vulnerable patient population. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19,” Dr. Jenkins says. Megan Jenkins, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery and associate director of the Surgery Residency Program. She specializes in bariatric surgery. Christine J. Ren-Fielding, MD, is a professor of surgery, chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery and director of the Weight Management Program. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis The patient’s uterine remnant, vulnerable to aggressive fibroid growth. Common Fibroids with a Rare Presentation A 44-year-old woman with a recent diagnosis of Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Müllerian agenesis, a rare condition in which the Paramesonephric ducts do not develop in female embryos, is frequently associated with the presence of rudimentary uterine structures or remnants. An examination revealed a 12-centimeter immobile mass over the patient’s lower abdomen. A pelvic MRI—the most sensitive diagnostic tool for identifying uterine remnants—further characterized the presence of a 4-centimeter uterine remnant with three dominant leiomyomas. “Although up to 70 percent of women experience leiomyomas by menopause, only 15 cases have been published for women with uterine remnants,” notes , a minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon subsequently consulted by the patient. Dr. Shirazian serves as director of NYU Langone Health’s . “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” In light of her worsening symptoms, the patient opted for minimally invasive surgery to definitively manage her condition. A preoperative plan included diagnostic laparoscopy, removal of the uterine remnant with leiomyomas, a bilateral salpingectomy if tubes were noted, and cystoscopy, required by protocol. “Ideally, we want to remove the entire remnant itself, leaving no myometrium for possible recurrence,” says Dr. Shirazian. Following surgery, the patient was discharged on the same day and has experienced complete resolution of symptoms. Importantly, the Center for Fibroid Care offered the patient supportive education and discussion of reproductive options. “Once this patient understood her potential options for assisted reproduction following surgery, she was comfortable proceeding,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Our multidisciplinary approach takes into account the patient’s life goals—which is critical when treating the multi-faceted impact fibroids often have.” Pelvic Imaging Guides Surgical Planning A pelvic MRI shows a uterine remnant impacted by multiple leiomyomas. A patient with Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Examination revealed a mass over the lower abdomen and pelvic MRI was remarkable for a single rudimentary uterus deviated to the right with three dominant leiomyomas, the largest measuring 5.8 centimeters. Real-Time Surgical Decision-Making with Laparoscopic Survey Pelvic survey reveals an additional uterine remnant. After safe entry was confirmed, a pelvic survey revealed a right uterine remnant with multiple leiomyomas along with an additional left rudimentary uterine remnant and bilateral normal ovaries with atrophic fallopian tubes. To prevent future fibroid growth, the additional remnant would also be removed. Procedure Begins with Bilateral Salpingectomy Surgeon’s view as the fallopian tubes are transected. To begin the procedure, the atrophic fallopian tubes were removed by transecting along their inferior aspect. Symptom-Causing Remnant Is Removed Surgeon’s view as the right rudimentary uterus and its symptomatic leiomyomas are dissected. The avascular plane of the right uterine remnant was transected, then the uterine artery was cauterized and transected. The specimen was rotated to allow transection of the uterine ligament. An Uncomplicated Surgery Resolves Patient Symptoms Surgeon’s view as a smaller, left-side uterine remnant is removed. The left rudimentary uterine horn was then dissected. The specimens were hand morcellated through the umbilical port. Final inspection revealed excellent hemostasis throughout, and the patient was discharged the same day after meeting required milestones. Post-surgery pathology confirmed that neither uterine remnant contained functioning endometrium. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Researchers further confirm the benefit of the endometrium-free uterine closure technique. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy Findings confirm a significant immune responsewhen mothers received an mRNA vaccine. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 Significant changes in pregnancy intention reported among mothers of young children in New York City. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology More than 40 years ago, the first annual meeting of the first and only national society of interventional cardiologists, the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions (SCAI) , was organized—with the creator of coronary angiography at its helm. Today, the subspecialty has evolved to offer patients many more treatment options, and SCAI is led by a new generation of physicians including , director of NYU Langone Health’s interventional cardiology program. Here, Dr. Rao, who is currently serving his term as SCAI president, discusses the state of the subspecialty and efforts underway at SCAI to advance the profession. An Evolving Subspecialty Dr. Rao, so much has changed within the subspecialty since SCAI was established. What excites you the most? Dr. Rao: The most exciting aspect of the profession has always been the same: We see very sick patients, and our expertise gives us the ability to help them feel better immediately. We can visualize a blockage that caused a patient’s heart attack and, 5 or 10 minutes later, their arteries are wide open and they’re asking to go home. There is an instant gratification there. “We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer.” The second thing relates to newer developments: We have more technologies than ever to offer patients—more approved interventions and more clinical trials of new devices and drugs. We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer. For example, we can treat more complex artery blockages, such as 100 percent occlusions, that in the past were not treatable. We are also able to treat patients with complex valve disease or heart failure using new devices that can help them get back to a normal life. National Leadership: The Next Frontier of Patient Care As president of SCAI, what are your leadership priorities for the society? We’ve placed a strong emphasis on research and education. For the first time in SCAI’s history, we are able to fund original research, with three grants awarded to early-career investigators. Their research will be presented at the next annual meeting. We also implemented a fellowship match program for the first time in interventional cardiology. In addition, our efforts have contributed to several legislative wins, including the Cardiovascular Advances in Research and Opportunities Legacy (CAROL) Act, which funds research to understand and prevent out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. That means strengthening initiatives like community CPR training and increasing the number and availability of automated external defibrillators (AEDs). What priorities are next? My utmost priority is to remain at the forefront of trends in patient care. Thanks to innovation in our field, procedures like coronary stenting are moving to the outpatient setting. More than 16 states have endorsed the procedure at ambulatory centers, which is a more patient-centered approach. The challenge is there are still risks to the procedure, so we developed a set of safeguards for quality in the ambulatory setting. SCAI is also at the leading edge of aligning payment with these evolutions in care. Second, we’re putting an increased spotlight on physician wellbeing. Alongside patient risks in the context of cardiac procedures, there are well-known occupational hazards for physicians and providers. Radiation risks, physical demands, and the psychological burden of treating very sick patients all take a toll. For us at SCAI, the question is how do we sustain our members in their careers and support their health and wellbeing? Closer to Home: A Uniquely Personal Approach Looking closer to home at NYU Langone, what are you most proud of accomplishing in your interventional cardiology program? My answer touches on the paradox of being a high-volume center that offers an incredibly personalized approach to care. Our teams at our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratories perform more than 14,000 a year. And we offer all of the best, most advanced technologies and approaches, like radial access, that have made our procedures safer and more effective. Yet on an individual level, the way we treat patients is incredibly personal. With each patient, we work with our noninvasive cardiology and surgery colleagues to figure out the right care at the right time. If that requires an interventional treatment, we will deliver what may be a widely available procedure with a personalized approach that you can only find here. Sunil Rao, MD, is the director of interventional cardiology at NYU Langone Health and director of the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory at Tisch Hospital. His research is focused on the application of radial access interventions to reduce patient risk and improve outcomes. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Endoanal ultrasound indicates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. Three Surgeons Collaborate to Repair Rare Traumatic Cloaca A woman in her 40s presented with fecal incontinence subsequent to a fourth-degree laceration during vaginal delivery in her home country. The patient had seen several providers without relief prior to travel to the United States, where she was referred for urogynecology consultation with Christina M. Escobar, MD . Examination revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum, with no rectal tone. Traumatic cloaca is a rare presentation, as precipitating injury is typically repaired during childbirth. The condition creates a single cavity involving the rectum and vagina, severely disrupting patient quality of life. “Because it’s so rare, providers often don’t diagnose traumatic cloaca, or may be unsure where to refer patients, leaving women suffering from fecal incontinence,” Dr. Escobar says. “This patient had gone from consults with gynecologists to a colorectal surgeon to urogynecology, but we brought all three specialties together to restore her anatomy.” To plan the reconstruction, Dr. Escobar collaborated with NYU Langone Health colleagues , a specialist in female pelvic medicine and reconstruction, and Marsha A. Harris, MD , a colorectal surgeon with pelvic floor expertise. Dr. Harris takes a special interest in women’s health, frequently partnering with colleagues in gynecology and urology to repair pelvic floor dysfunction. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” Christina Escobar, MD The approach involved dissection of the rectovaginal septum and sphincteroplasty; multidisciplinary collaboration was critical to identifying, isolating, and repositioning the structures. “There is a major advantage to having a urologist, gynecologist, and colorectal surgeon side-by-side working on these adjacent areas,” says Dr. Rosenblum. Following overnight observation, the patient was released with a care plan in place. “This is a patient who was told her problem was not fixable, who lived with fecal incontinence for 14 years,” says Dr. Escobar. “By pooling our pelvic floor expertise, our team expanded our toolbox three-fold and dramatically improved the patient’s quality of life.” A Cloaca-Like Deformity Secondary to Obstetric Trauma A clear demarcation of vaginal and anal mucosa. A preoperative physical exam revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum measuring 6 centimeters in length and representing a cloaca. Endoanal Ultrasound Reveals Full Extent of Clinical Findings Endoanal ultrasound demonstrates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. An endoanal ultrasound, the preferred imaging for surgical planning, confirmed findings of the patient’s digital rectal exam, revealing significant separation of the external from the internal anal sphincter. Re-Approximation of the Rectal-Vaginal Structures Surgeon’s view of the reconstruction to re-approximate the internal (A) and external (B) anal sphincter. For the reconstruction, an initial horizontal incision was made and the rectum and vagina separated. The internal and external anal sphincter were identified and dissected, then re-approximated. A Successful Reconstruction Surgeon’s view of the completed cloacal repair, with drain in place. Once the internal and external sphincter were repaired, the previously mobilized rectal mucosa was advanced under the reconstructed sphincter and attached to the perianal skin. The tissues were closed and a drain was placed. Christina M. Escobar, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and associate director of Simulation in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Experts at the reported performing nearly 40 percent more oocyte retrievals in 2021 compared to the preceeding year. While somewhat surprising given the pandemic, the trend is in accordance with both experts and models pointing to the rapidly growing interest in egg freezing and in vitro fertilization (IVF). “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate,” says Frederick L. Licciardi, MD , director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the fertility center. Dr. Licciardi and colleagues recently reported in Clinical and Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology that the pandemic did not influence outcomes Considering the growing demand in assisted reproductive technology (ACT), infertility specialist Jennifer K. Blakemore, MD , says she and colleagues are focused on making treatments less stressful and more accessible. “Infertility doesn’t care who you are, where you are, and what kind of funds you have, it affects everybody,” says Dr. Blakemore. “The more ways we can provide patients with information on the expanding options and opportunities related to reproductive health, the better.” “The fact that we were in the throes of a pandemic did not affect our egg numbers, embryo fertilization rate, or pregnancy rate.” The Need to Address Stress Stress as a side effect of assisted reproduction is an important part of discussions with patients. “I tell patients ahead of time, ‘This is going to be stressful for you, it’s normal.’” says Dr. Licciardi. While high levels of stress are anticipated in patients undergoing IVF, the center’s previous research revealed egg freezing to be at least as stressful as IVF . Younger and younger women are seeking the service for diverse, stress-provoking reasons, listing concerns related to age, health status, career stage, and a lack of immediate prospects for a partner. To further examine stress in egg freezing, Dr. Licciardi is leading an ongoing study involving surveys and interviews with patients before and after oocyte cryopreservation. “I’m hoping these studies will help providers who are offering egg freezing understand the complex decisions and intense stress their patients are facing,” Dr. Licciardi says. “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” “Keep your eyes open for signs of disruption and stress in your patients and address it, be open.” Dr. Blakemore recently authored a review in Fertility and Sterility highlighting the need for individualized and comprehensive counseling for those seeking oocyte cryopreservation. “Patients need to be cautioned and counseled that we don’t have perfect statistics yet on things like how frozen eggs work 10 to 20 years from now and all of those different aspects,” Dr. Blakemore says. However, retrospective studies of the center’s oocyte thaw outcomes are beginning to address these unknowns, suggesting egg freezing may be superior to IVF for delayed childbearing. Expanding Access to Specialized Fertility Care Despite exciting advances in ART, disparities exist in accessing and utilizing these specialized services. NYU Langone investigators have recently reported on sociodemographic differences in the use of fertility services among women with cancer as well as the utilization of planned oocyte cryopreservation among Black obstetrician gynecologists One new study from fellow Ashley Wiltshire, MD, used a unique case of primary ovarian insufficiency in a 36-year-old Black woman to shed light on how systemic barriers hinder some patient’s abilities to reach their fertility goals. The authors outline recommendations including full spectrum fertility coverage as well as noting the importance of providers committing to address inequities in fertility treatment. “We can do a better job of educating ourselves—internal medicine providers, OBGYN providers, primary care physicians and beyond—with more information on fertility statistics and services in order to reach more people and provide better care,” says Dr. Blakemore. Frederick L. Licciardi, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Oocyte Donation Program at the NYU Langone Fertility Clinic. His research interests focus on in vitro fertilization, oocyte donation, and embryo development. Jennifer L. Blakemore, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of resident research in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Her research focuses on endometriosis and infertility in women. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA Methotrexate, the first-line medication for rheumatoid arthritis, works as a monotherapy in only about 50 percent of patients , necessitating a trial and error approach to find the right combination of medications for each patient. If methotrexate fails to control a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis after three months, as a general rule of thumb, clinicians try a different strategy. “That’s a critical amount of time during which someone’s disease is potentially progressing and becoming more destructive,” says rheumatologist Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Supported in part by NYU Langone Health’s Clinical and Translational Science Awards Scholars Program , Dr. Blank is exploring whether differences in the gut microbiome may help predict the responsiveness of a patient’s rheumatoid arthritis to methotrexate. In addition, she’s assessing whether strategic alterations to the microbiome might enhance the medication’s effect. A Consequential Microbial Shift Prior research led by rheumatologist , director of NYU Langone’s Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity, found that certain gut microbial DNA signatures predict methotrexate responsiveness . From those results, Dr. Blank and Dr. Scher hypothesized that some gut microbes may be metabolizing methotrexate into metabolites and preventing the drug from reaching a patient’s joints. “One of our thoughts was, can we shift this microbiome toward microbes that don’t break down methotrexate as much?” Dr. Blank says. Another question is whether the microbiome could be pushed into a more immunoregulatory state, one that reduces the “leaky gut” phenomenon that can spur inflammation. Based on data from animal studies of rheumatoid arthritis and from clinical trials in inflammatory bowel disease and pediatric obesity, Dr. Blank narrowed her focus to microbes that produce short-chain fatty acids as their fermentation products. These bacterial products have been shown to ameliorate inflammatory arthritis in mice by reducing inflammation at the joint and decreasing inflammatory T helper 17 cells while increasing systemic regulatory T cells. One short-chain fatty acid, butyrate, seems to have the most significant effect. In humans, some evidence suggests that butyrate supplements yield a positive feedback loop that shifts the gut toward more butyrate-producing microbes A New Focus on Butyrate Combined, the findings point toward the possibility that supplementing methotrexate with butyrate in patients with new-onset rheumatoid arthritis might shift the gut microbiome toward a state of reduced inflammation and even decreased methotrexate metabolism, helping to explain the microbial signature predicting methotrexate responsiveness. In a pilot trial involving 16 patients newly diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and receiving methotrexate, Dr. Blank and colleagues are testing just this question. As part of the study, the researchers aim to determine whether butyrate supplementation correlates with an increase in T regulatory cells and a decrease in inflammatory T cells, like the shift seen in mice. In addition, the research could reveal the role of butyrate producers in the methotrexate response signature. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically, it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” So far, gut microbiome analyses from eight of the patients have revealed lower microbial alpha diversity than healthy controls at baseline. After four months of butyrate supplementation, however, their microbiomes are showing significant shifts toward higher alpha diversity, compared with historical controls of rheumatoid arthritis patients given methotrexate alone. In particular, Dr. Blank and colleagues found a relative increase in the bacterial taxa known to produce short-chain fatty acids like butyrate. “I think what’s happening is that you’re creating more diversity of microbes, which then out-compete some of these other microbes that are metabolizing the methotrexate into inactive products,” she says. “You’re essentially pushing the pathogenic microbes out of the way.” Testing a Potential Adjunct Therapy Supported by a grant from the Arthritis Foundation , Dr. Blank is expanding her focus with a small pilot study on patients whose first-line methotrexate therapy is starting to fail. Before switching the patients to a new regimen, she’s assessing whether butyrate supplementation and a corresponding shift in the gut microbiome might prolong methotrexate’s efficacy. If her pilot trials yield promising results, Dr. Blank hopes to partner with other academic centers on a placebo-controlled clinical trial to assess the benefits of supplementing methotrexate with butyrate. “If butyrate does have an impact on the microbiome and an impact on downregulating inflammatory responses systemically,” she says, “it could be an adjunct to a number of different rheumatoid arthritis medications.” Rebecca B. Blank, MD, PhD, is an instructor of medicine who specializes in rheumatology. Her research focuses on the role of the gut microbiome in pathogenesis and amelioration of inflammatory arthritis, particularly, rheumatoid arthritis. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting This June, our researchers and physicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is Partnering with Patients: The Cornerstone of Cancer Care and Research Friday, June 2 Clinical Science Symposium New Partners for EGFR-Mutant Lung Cancer : 1–2:30 pm Saturday, June 3 ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin Alfa Monotherapy in Patients with Advanced Mucosal and Cutaneous Melanoma Abstract: TPS9592 Poster Board: 355a : 1:15 pm The Validity of a Machine Learning Algorithm in Predicting Response to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in Melanoma Faisal Fa’ak, MBBS 9523 286 Ultrasensitive Detection and Monitoring of Central Nervous System Tumors from Plasma Using Personalized Whole-Genome CTDNA Profiling 2064 421 Long-Term Outcomes of Pembrolizumab (Pembro) in Combination with Gemcitabine (Gem) and Concurrent Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy (RT) as Bladder Sparing Treatment for Muscle-Invasive Urothelial Cancer of the Bladder (MIUC): A Multicenter Phase 2 Trial Minas P. Economides, MD 4509 3 pm Sunday, June 4 Large Scale Evaluation of Pulmonary Nodule Workup: A Real-World Study of Over 150,000 Patients in New York State Vamsidhar Velcheti, MD, FACP, FCCP 8559 186 : 8 am Monday, June 5 Education Session Defining the Patients at Risk for Developing Pancreatic Cancer Diane M. Simeone, MD : 9:45 am Where Do We Stand with Immunotherapy for Small-Cell Lung Cancer? Sally C. M. Lau, MD, MPH : 3 pm Oral Abstract Presentation Preliminary Results From the Female Asian Nonsmoker Screening Study (FANSS) Elaine Shum, MD 8510 : 11:30 am The Interventional Radiologist’s Perspective Ryan M. Hickey, MD 4:30 pm SpotCheck: A Skin Cancer Diagnostic Clinical Trial Comparing Dermoscopy-Enhanced Telemedicine to In-Person Evaluation Jenne P. Ingrassia 1604 198 1:15 pm Tuesday, June 6 Disparities in Outcomes Among Hospitalized Unhoused Patients with Cancer in the US Kanan Shah, MD 6502 8 am Publication Only Abstract Real-World Clinical Outcomes in a U.S. Asian Population with Stage IV NSCLC Treated with Osimertinib (Osi) Stratified by EGFR Subtype Abstract : e21128 NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health’s experts presented their research at the 2024 American Urological Association (AUA) annual meeting in San Antonio, Texas. See below for notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. Panel Discussion: 49-Year-Old Woman with Symptomatic Large-Volume Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma NYU Presenter: 8:00–8:25AM Implementation Determinants: What Gets in the Way of Evidence-Based Practice? Urologic Oncology Research Symposium Danil V. Makarov, MD 1:18–1:27PM Optimizing Dissemination of Urological Research NYU Presenters: 4:08–4:18PM Update in Management of Upper-Tract Urothelial Carcinoma American College of Osteopathic Surgeons (ACOS) 9:30–10:30AM Barriers to Peri- and Post-Menopausal Women Using Vaginal Estrogen Therapy Include Cost and Fear of Side Effects Poster and Podium, PD24 Sabrina Stair, MD 11:20–11:30AM Response to Primary Chemoablation with UGN-102 in Patients with New or Recurrent LG IR NMIBC: Post Hoc Analysis of the ATLAS Trial Poster and Podium, PD30-09 2:20–2:30PM Unmet Sexual Health Needs and Preferences of Female Partners of Patients with Prostate Cancer Poster and Podium, PD28-12 2:50–3:00PM Five-Year Oncologic Outcomes Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) PD39: Prostate Cancer: Localized: Ablative Therapy II Eli Rapoport, BS NYU Moderator: 7:40–7:50AM Panel Discussion: Tricks and Tips of Penile Prosthesis Surgery 9:55–10:25AM Genetic Testing in Prostate Cancer: The Role of the Urologists International Prostate Forum 11:10–11:25AM Crossfire: Controversies in Urology: MUS vs. Bulking in a 55-Year-Old Woman SUI 2:10–2:40PM Upper Urinary Tract: Buccal Graft Update After 10-Year Experience Society of Urologic Robotic Surgeons (SURS) Brian Chao, MD Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation In March 2017, urologic oncologists , initiated a prospective outcomes registry to capture both oncological and functional outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PGCA). Now, these researchers report encouraging oncological outcomes in the largest and most rigorous five-year follow-up study for primary PGCA conducted to date. Among 298 patients with localized, intermediate-risk disease who elected primary PGCA, the five-year freedom-from-failure rate was 91 percent. In addition, rates of freedom-from-recurrence of in-field, out-of-field, and overall clinically significant disease were 79 percent, 74 percent, and 58 percent, respectively. [Read a case report from the study here “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “We now counsel men with intermediate-risk disease who are considering cryoablation that, at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole gland treatments,” says Dr. Lepor. “These results are paradigm-changing for select patients with localized prostate cancer who elect cryoablation over radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” Results from the study will be presented at the upcoming 2024 Annual Scientific Meeting of the American Urological Association (AUA). Building Upon Early Success Previously published data revealed high rates of functional recovery following primary PGCA. The researchers published early functional outcomes in The Canadian Journal of Urology in June 2022 and in in January 2023. Notably, they observed no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries, an improvement in lower urinary symptoms, and less adverse impact on sexual function following primary PGCA when compared to whole-gland treatments. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” “Sexual function and incontinence outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following whole gland interventions,” says Dr. Wysock. “In our experience, over two-thirds of men with intermediate-risk disease will elect PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to better quality-of-life outcomes.” With respect to early oncological outcomes, the researchers have demonstrated primary PGCA to reliably ablate the index lesion and support a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years. Need for Active Surveillance According to the researchers, the findings emphasize the importance of active surveillance following focal therapy. They explain that many of the clinically significant recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, making them amenable to active surveillance based on the ProtecT trial Regarding the surveillance protocol, Dr. Lepor recommends PSA testing, multiparametric MRI, and a surveillance prostate biopsy at specified intervals following primary PGCA. He currently performs for-cause biopsies based on digital rectal exam, PSA kinetics, and suspicious MRI lesions. “A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field clinically significant recurrences requiring intervention,” Dr. Lepor explains. “Most cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage radiation therapy.” Advancing Focal Therapy To date, 459 men who underwent primary PGCA have enrolled in the prospective cohort study, Dr. Lepor says, and these five-year data strengthen support for the use of focal therapies in men with high-volume, low-risk and intermediate-risk clinically localized prostate cancer. “In 2012, I was confident focal therapies would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate-risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority,” Dr. Lepor says. Now, after a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following focal therapies, and specifically cryotherapy , Dr. Lepor believes PGCA should be widely available to men with localized, intermediate-risk disease. While NYU Langone offers a range of focal therapy techniques, including high-intensity focused ultrasound, radiofrequency ablation, and electroporation, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies are performed using cryotherapy due to its superior oncological outcomes. “Cryotherapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes,” Dr. Lepor says. Herbert Lepor, MD, is the Martin Spatz Chair of the Department of Urology, chief of urology, and director of the Smilow Comprehensive Prostate Cancer Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in urologic oncology, with expertise in radical prostatectomy and focal ablation. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ A 57-year-old male presented with a history of treated thyroid cancer and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). His international prostate symptom score (IPSS) was 25 and an upper tract ultrasound revealed a 160-gram prostate. Some improvement in urinary symptoms was seen with tamsulosin and finasteride. However, the impact of treatment on sexual health was significant. Intermittent self-catheterization was also required for high postvoid residual volume, and the patient did not wish to continue this. An office cystoscopy confirmed bladder outlet obstruction secondary to benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), a common cause of LUTS, and the patient was counseled on surgical options. After considering GreenLight, transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), anatomical endoscopic enucleation of the prostate (AEEP) with Holmium, Aquablation, and simple robotic prostatectomy, the patient elected for the Aquablation procedure. The following Case of the Month illustrates how Aquablation safely and effectively treats a very large prostate size normally managed by simple prostatectomy or AEEP, but with lower rates of urinary incontinence and ejaculatory dysfunction. The case also exemplifies why I consider Aquablation to be the Swiss Army knife of surgical therapies for BPH. Aquablation received de novo clearance from the FDA for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The technique is appropriate for all prostate sizes, including very large prostates >150 mL, and is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction. The technique significantly improves IPSS and surpasses all other BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. In the case presented here, the patient reported an IPSS of 25 before treatment. After Aquablation, his IPSS dropped to 4, and he reported preserved erectile and ejaculatory function; his only medication was finasteride. When the patient first presented to our care, he experienced nocturia three times per night, urinary frequency every two hours, urinary urgency, and a weak urinary stream. He achieved significant improvement in LUTS on tamsulosin but eventually went into acute urinary retention requiring Foley catheterization. At that time, an upper tract ultrasound confirmed the presence of two normal renal moieties, a normal-appearing bladder, and an enlarged prostate with a large median lobe. He then increased tamsulosin to 0.8 mg daily, started finasteride, and subsequently voided spontaneously. However, high postvoid residuals required self-catheterization four times daily. An office cystoscopy was completed, confirming a normal anterior urethra and trilobar prostate hyperplasia. Urodynamic study was not performed due to his cystoscopic findings, prostate size, and lack of relevant comorbidities. Digital rectal exam demonstrated a large, smooth prostate. The PSA was 2.1 ng/dL. The patient elected for Aquablation after being counseled on his surgical options. He did not wish to continue intermittent catheterization, did not tolerate the retrograde ejaculation of tamsulosin, and wished to preserve his erectile and ejaculatory function. Aquablation: The Clinical Trials Treatments of bladder outlet obstruction range from medical therapy to minimally invasive procedures to open surgery. The goal of surgical therapy is simply to reduce outlet resistance. However, techniques must be effective in symptom score reduction and durability and be associated with minimal peri- and postoperative complications. Other goals should be a short learning curve and minimal sexual dysfunction. Among the newer, novel resective techniques is Aquablation therapy, delivered by the PROCEPT BioRobotics’ AquaBeam Robotic System. It has attracted attention as a minimally invasive technique that is as effective and safe as other resective treatments, but with minimal to no negative impact on erectile or ejaculatory function. The Aquablation procedure. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. Aquablation employs a robotically controlled, room-temperature waterjet to remove obstructing prostate tissue . The AquaBeam Robotic System received de novo clearance from the FDA in December 2017. It is indicated for the resection and removal of prostate tissue in males suffering from LUTS due to BPH. The safety and efficacy of Aquablation therapy with the AquaBeam Robotic System have been rigorously investigated. The WATER study was a randomized, pivotal trial comparing Aquablation therapy against TURP. It showed that Aquablation provided the same durable outcomes and lower surgical retreatment rate as TURP at five years for prostate sizes 30 to 80 mL while maintaining a superior ejaculatory profile. The WATER study enrolled 181 patients ages 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH across 17 sites in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand, demonstrating superiority and noninferior primary efficacy results compared to TURP . Other studies have demonstrated noninferiority and even superiority to TURP The WATER II study enrolled 101 male patients with prostates 80 to 150 mL between the ages of 45 to 80 years with urinary symptoms due to BPH at 16 sites in the United States and Canada. The WATER II study demonstrated significant improvement in both symptom scores and urinary flow rates, with similar length of stay reported in the WATER study A meta-analysis of four clinical trials (WATER, WATER II, OPEN WATER, and FRANCAIS WATER) with 425 patients (volumes 20 to 150 mL) and a one-year follow-up showed an average IPSS improvement of 16 points, 20.5 mL/second urinary peak flow rates, 3.3-point improvement in quality of life, 0 percent erectile dysfunction, 0.5 percent incontinence, and only a 10.8 percent incidence of ejaculatory dysfunction Based on the above data and other sources, the American Urologic Association included Aquablation therapy in its 2019 Practice Guidelines for the “Surgical Management of Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Attributed to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia” . Today, Aquablation therapy provides a minimally invasive option in a field already populated by Optilume, iTIND, UroLift, Rezum, GreenLight, TURPs, AEEPs, and simple robotic or open simple prostatectomies. It has a short learning curve of about 10 to 20 cases and a high level of predictability and reproducibility Aquablation: The Procedure The patient’s Aquablation procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia . An SIUI Apogee 2300 biplane transrectal ultrasound was first inserted for optimal prostate imaging. The 24 Fr handpiece was then inserted transurethrally into the patient’s bladder and then mounted on the bed-mounted robotic articulating arm. Using real-time prostate visualization and PROCEPT planning software on the CPU, the waterjet angles and a surgical contour were planned and the waterjet robotic ablation begun. As the waterjet moved from median lobe to prostate apex, adenomatous tissue was removed with a pendulum-like motion. Once the jet reached the ejaculation safety zone, its pattern was converted to a “butterfly-cut” mode to avoid injury to the ejaculatory ducts on the prostatic urethral floor. A second full pass was performed, and then the handpiece was removed. A 26-Fr resectoscope was inserted, clot evacuation was done, and focal bladder neck cauterization was performed. Minor resection of treated prostate tissue was resected and sent for pathology. Finally, a 24 Fr 3-way Coude catheter was inserted and the patient was observed on traction. Postoperative continuous bladder irrigation (CBI) was performed until the following day. Post-procedure prostate cavity and catheter insertion. Source: PROCEPT BioRobotics. The patient was discharged on postoperative day one and passed a trial of void on postoperative day two with a postvoid residual of 120 mL. At a six-week follow-up, the patient had no complaints. He had a negative urine culture and an IPSS of 4. He had preserved erectile and ejaculatory function, and his only medication was finasteride. One of the three distinctive and attractive features of Aquablation is its versatility. Some procedures are only appropriate for certain types of prostate sizes or configurations. Aquablation has real potential to dominate the BPH minimally invasive therapy market because of its ability to be the Swiss Army knife of BPH surgical therapies. It can safely and effectively treat all prostate sizes (20 grams and up) and can also treat various forms of bladder outlet obstruction, including high-riding bladder necks, prostates with median lobes of any size, lateral lobe compression, very long prostates, prostate synechiae, and overhanging anterior prostate tissue. It is also safe and effective in patients with prior treatments, such as UroLift, Rezum, brachytherapy, and external beam radiation. Another enticing feature is Aquablation’s ability to treat all prostate sizes. Until now, surgical management options for men with very large prostates (>150 mL) were limited to simple prostatectomy (open, laparoscopic, or robotic) and AEEP (Holmium and thulium). These surgical options are associated with increased surgical risks, such as increased operative time, risk of bleeding, transfusions, ejaculatory dysfunction, and a prolonged indwelling catheter time . The proliferation of AEEP has been limited due to its steep learning curve and a relative paucity of training opportunities. After earlier reports of bleeding in the WATER and WATER II trials, PROCEPT developed an optimal hemostasis technique of focal bladder neck cauterization that included removal of frondular ablated tissue at the bladder neck as well as any targeted focal cautery of any obvious arterial bleeding. In April 2021, a study of more than 2,000 patients undergoing this technique yielded a transfusion rate of 0.8 percent for treated prostates with volumes of 20 to 363 mL . Further meta-analysis of the WATER, WATER II, and OPEN WATER trials report a composite transfusion rate of 0.1 percent The other complication deserving of discussion is ejaculatory dysfunction. Aquablation preserves anterograde ejaculation rates in over 90 percent of men, better than any other resective BPH procedure. It is important to note that Aquablation is the only procedure where de novo ejaculatory dysfunction remained low despite larger prostate sizes (80 cc to 150 cc) . This potential complication is getting more discussion time preoperatively, now that men and their partners are more educated about which treatments are associated with ejaculatory dysfunction and which ones are not. The days of treating urologists downplaying the importance of male orgasmic function in their patients are numbered as more men are understanding that retrograde ejaculation and anejaculation are often inferior in sensation to anterograde ejaculation. Conclusion Physicians counseling patients with obstructive BPH should be aware of Aquablation therapy as it is able to comparatively improve IPSS scores, has superior durability to TURP, has minimal complications, and is superior to other resective BPH procedures in preserving ejaculatory function. Aquablation is adaptable to any type of bladder outlet obstruction and is appropriate for any prostate size. The learning curve is short, and operative times are consistent and reproducible. 1. Zorn et al. (2022). Aquablation treatment for benign prostate hyperplasia: Current standardized procedure. Journal of Endourology. 2. Oumedjbeur et al. (2023). Aquablation versus TURP: 5-year outcomes of the WATER randomized clinical trial for prostate volumes 50-80 mL. Canadian Journal of Urology. PubMed 3. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation of transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. BJU International. 4. Gilling et al. (2020). Three-year outcomes after Aquablation therapy compared to TURP: Results from a blinded randomized trial. Canadian Journal of Urology 5. Bhojani et al. (2023). Aquablation therapy in large prostates (80-150 mL) for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia: Final WATER II 5-year clinical trial results. Journal of Urology. 6. Elterman et al. (2021). Meta-analysis with individual data of functional outcomes following Aquablation for lower urinary tract symptoms due to BPH in various prostate anatomies. BMJ Surgery, Interventions, & Health Technologies. 7. Dornbier et al. (2020). The new American Urological Association benign prostatic hyperplasia clinical guidelines: 2019 update. Current Urology Reports. 8. El Hajj et al. (2022). Learning curve in aquablation: An international multicenter study. World Journal of Urology. 9. MacRae et al. (2016). How I do it: Aquablation of the prostate using the AQUABEAM system. 10. Nguyen et al. (2020). Operative time comparison of Aquablation, Greenlight PVP, ThuLEP, GreenLEP, and HoLEP. 11. Elterman et al. (2021). Focal bladder neck cautery associated with low rate of post-Aquablation bleeding. 12. Elterman et al. (2020). Transfusion rates after 800 Aquablation procedures using various haemostasis methods. 13. Nguyen et al. (2020). Waterjet ablation therapy for endoscopic resection of prostate tissue trial (WATER) vs WATER II: Comparing Aquablation therapy for benign prostatic hyperplasia in 30–80 and 80–150 mL prostates. BJU International 14. Plante et al. (2019). Symptom relief and anejaculation after aquablation or transurethral resection of the prostate: Subgroup analysis from a blinded randomized trial. Christopher E. Kelly, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Urology. His areas of clinical interest include benign prostatic hyperplasia and male urinary and sexual dysfunction. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus A schematic of the phase 4 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, non-inferiority crossover study to evaluate Shingrix in patients with lupus. Herpes zoster, or shingles, is more common in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) compared to the general population. An unresolved question has been whether the recombinant Herpes zoster subunit vaccine, Shingrix, is safe to use in patients living with lupus. A recently launched phase 4 clinical study , led by rheumatologist , an associate professor of medicine at NYU Langone Health, aims to evaluate the safety of Shingrix in patients with diverse baseline clinical activities, spanning different ages, and with varying levels of immunosuppressant exposures. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” “Anecdotal reports suggest that the Shingrix vaccine poses no significant safety concerns for patients with stable lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “Our goal is to establish the safety of the vaccine in a real-world patient population and gain a better understanding of the immune responses.” The study, which is being offered at NYU Langone and the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, is open to adult patients with stable disease (i.e., no lupus flare(s) at the time of enrollment). Patients can be receiving many types of immunosuppressive or biologic agents for SLE treatment. While accrual is at an early stage, Dr. Saxena and the research team plan to conduct an interim analysis in the second half of 2025. They hypothesize that Shingrix administration will be non-inferior to placebo with respect to the risk of moderate or severe SLE flare(s) and that immunogenicity of the vaccine in lupus patients will be at least 50 percent of levels observed in healthy subjects from prior large clinical trials. “We hope the findings will have therapeutic implications and help patients and their families feel more confident in their decision to vaccinate,” Dr. Saxena says. Amit Saxena, MD, is an associate professor of medicine. He specializes in researching and treating systemic lupus erythematosus. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis New funding from the NIH will help NYU Langone Health researchers explain mechanisms that underlie autoimmune conditions, including lupus nephritis. Growing evidence suggests that a milder and early form of lupus nephritis, Class II, can progress to more-advanced disease states in some patients, underscoring the critical need for a deeper understanding of the disease pathway. Under the umbrella of AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases (AMP AIM), computational biologist , is developing and utilizing multiomic approaches to elucidate early disease pathogenesis in lupus nephritis. Launched in December 2021, the AMP AIM program seeks to deepen understanding of the cellular and molecular interactions that lead to inflammation and autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is a lead center in this ambitious effort, which has attracted a total of $58 million in public and private funding. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the , is contact principal investigator of the program’s lupus team. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” “Directing our efforts toward understanding early disease pathogenesis is important,” Dr. Ruggles says. “We want to find ways to slow or halt disease progression.” Multimodal Data Analysis The analysis, led by Dr. Ruggles in collaboration with Dr. Buyon, focuses on multimodal single cell sequencing integration, starting with scRNA-seq and global and spatial metabolomics to connect transcriptome-predicted metabolic states and spatially resolve metabolic changes. Additional data modalities—including CITE-Seq, spatial transcriptomics, and multiplexed tissue imaging—will also be applied when available. These combined analyses, in turn, will complement ongoing AMP AIM working group efforts and help connect and harness existing data for enhanced discovery. “We’re leveraging our group’s expertise in precision medicine, extensive experience working with computational multiomics in immunological disorders and ongoing collaborations with multiple AMP AIM teams,” Dr. Ruggles says. These varied methods, she explains, will be first applied to 16 Class II lupus nephritis research biopsy cores, which will then be compared to 150 cores from patients with more advanced lupus nephritis, including Class III, IV, V, and mixed, to better understand the molecular underpinnings of early disease and potential drivers of progression. Seeking Predictive Biomarkers Despite continued efforts, the identification of robust and reproducible urine- and blood-based biomarkers for predicting and tracking lupus nephritis has been challenging. This is mainly due to the heterogeneity of the condition, which can vary from silent disease to rapidly progressive kidney damage. According to Dr. Ruggles, identifying unique transcriptomic and metabolomic signatures associated with early disease is key to the long-term goal of developing predictive biomarkers. “We’re searching for robust molecular patterns in the data,” she explains. “Uncovering a gene or metabolite signature that correlates with a clinical phenotype would be a game changer.” Given the recent advancements in technology, Dr. Ruggles foresees a shift toward optimized and personalized management of patients, aided by a battery of next-generation biomarkers. A Glimpse into the Future Looking to the future, this extensive molecular analysis could be applied in multiple ways, notes Dr. Ruggles, including for personalized medicine. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” “The possibilities for personalized medicine in this space are vast,” Dr. Ruggles says. “By tapping into a patient’s distinct molecular profile, we could tailor treatments to their specific needs.” In addition, consolidating and integrating data from all AMP AIM initiatives could have broader implications for other autoimmune disorders. Beyond lupus, for instance, the researchers plan to apply these methods to psoriatic arthritis samples from the AMP Psoriatic Response and Onset: Genes Radiology Environment Skin and Synovium ( AMP PROGRESS ) study and to rheumatoid arthritis samples at NYU Langone to assess molecular and phenotypic changes in those diseases as well. Autoimmune Disease, Computational Biology, Bioinformatics Kelly V. Ruggles, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of integrated sciences in the Office of Medical Education. Her research focuses on understanding human health and biology using data science, data visualization, and predictive modeling. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Resistance to venetoclax and other BH3 mimetics in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) occurs due to a rapid increase in mitophagy, the process by which cells break down and turnover mitochondria, according to a new study from investigators at NYU Langone Health and , the findings build on earlier insights from the team suggesting that targeting mitochondria may serve as a novel approach to overcome venetoclax resistance “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either MFN2 or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia.” “Our preclinical findings suggest that combining BH3 mimetics like venetoclax with either mitofusin 2 (MFN2) or general mitophagy inhibitors could possibly serve as a future therapy for acute myeloid leukemia, as current drug treatments are stalled due to drug resistance,” says study senior investigator , the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Specific inhibition of MFN2 is of particular interest as upregulation of the mitophagy regulator was identified as a leading mechanism of venetoclax resistance. Challenging Resistance BH3 mimetics function by inhibiting the pro-survival signaling proteins relied upon by cancer cells for unchecked cell growth. Yet, despite their promise for treating AML and other cancer types, resistance arises after prolonged exposure. Combinatorial BH3 mimetic treatments are being investigated as one approach to improve efficacy; however, experts anticipate resistance to these strategies as well. “Acute myeloid leukemia is notoriously difficult to treat, with fewer than a third of those affected living longer than five years after their diagnosis, so it is important to maximize the impact of existing therapies,” says study co-lead investigator Xufeng Chen, PhD , an instructor in the Department of Pathology. Christina Glytsou, PhD, a former postdoctoral researcher at NYU Langone and now an assistant professor at Rutgers University, also served as co-lead investigator. Mitophagy: A New Target In the new publication, the team describes how mitochondrial clearance represents a key tactic deployed by AML cells to evade cell death triggered by BH3 mimetics. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms,” says Dr. Chen. “Because mitochondria serve as a hub for the transmission of cell death signals, their sequestration through mitophagy effectively silences these alarms.” Compared to healthy volunteers, the researchers report that patients with AML display increased expression of MFN2 as well as several other genes associated with mitophagy. These mitophagy genes are also upregulated in patients with poor responses to BH3 mimetics compared to high responders. Further analyses showed that genetic ablation or pharmacologic inhibition of MFN2 can sensitize human AML cells to various BH3 mimetics. While in animal models of AML, concomitant administration of a BH3 mimetic together with chloroquine, a general autophagy and mitophagy inhibitor, resulted in delayed AML progression and enhanced survival compared to both single agent–treated and untreated mice. Trials Ahead The research team now plans to design a clinical trial to test whether chloroquine, when used in combination with venetoclax, prevents drug resistance in patients with AML. Future studies will also focus on optimizing MFN2-inhibiting compounds like MFI8, a recently developed small molecule that inhibits mitofusins . The molecule was shown in the new study to enhance the efficacy of BH3 mimetics in in vitro AML experiments. Dr. Aifantis has received research funding from AstraZeneca. Iannis Aifantis, PhD, is the Hermann M. Biggs Professor of Pathology and chair of the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on mechanisms of both lymphoid and myeloid leukemia initiation and progression. Xufeng Chen, PhD, is an instructor in the Department of Pathology. His research focuses on understanding the regulation of leukemogenesis and the acquisition of drug resistance in myeloid leukemias and developing novel combinational therapies for circumventing drug resistance to targeted therapies and immunotherapies. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression A current challenge to understanding the pathophysiology and progression of Parkinson’s disease (PD) is identifying and validating markers for the preclinical and prodromal stages, says Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD , a research assistant professor of neurology at NYU Langone Health. To that end, NYU Langone researchers have joined a landmark global study aimed at identifying markers of disease progression to reduce PD disability. The Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) —a groundreaking observational study across nearly 50 international sites and sponsored by The Michael J. Fox Foundation—is investigating the development of clinical features, digital outcomes, and biomarkers of PD progression in patients with manifest PD, patients with prodromal symptoms, and healthy control volunteers. “A systematic collection of data and biosamples from patients with Parkinson’s disease at different centers around the world represents a unique platform for new research discoveries and result validation in the field,” Dr. Riboldi says. A Transformative Study Since its inception in 2010, the PPMI study has become a cornerstone of PD research and continues to advance new treatments. Analyses from its dataset and biosample library have deepened understanding of PD and informed the design of dozens of therapeutic trials. With the goal of providing a more detailed and nuanced inquiry into PD development, The Michael J. Fox Foundation announced an expansion of PPMI to increase the size and diversity of enrollment cohorts. The expansion has potential downstream applications including earlier detection of those at risk, and the development of innovative new tests, treatments, and technologies. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” “Each PPMI volunteer contributes to the effort toward markers that are unique to people with Parkinson’s disease or who are at risk of Parkinson’s disease,” says Dr. Riboldi. “These markers could lead to earlier, faster diagnosis, and the development of therapies to slow, stop, or prevent the disease.” Prodromal Parkinson’s Disease and REM Sleep Behavior Disorder Prodromal symptoms of PD are non-motor, and idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a well-established risk factor for neurodegenerative disease, with approximately 40 to 65 percent of patients with RBD also being diagnosed with a synuclein-related disorder during their lifetime. Research efforts are underway to find a treatment for RBD . Nonetheless, with no preventive agent for PD, recruiting volunteers with prodromal PD who don’t exhibit motor symptoms requires large-scale innovative screening and recruiting efforts. “When the motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease manifest, the majority of the dopaminergic cells in the brain are lost,” Dr. Riboldi says. “Studying early biological changes in prodromal stages of PD can help to clarify triggering mechanisms of the disorder and identify biomarkers for early intervention.” Although significant challenges to accrual remain, efforts are now underway at NYU Langone and collaborating institutions to recruit participants with idiopathic RBD for the study. Since idiopathic RBD is the strongest predictor of future development of α-synucleinopathies, it could be used as a model to understand the clinical and molecular evolution of the preclinical/prodromal phase of pathological α-synuclein—with the ultimate goal of initiating disease prevention studies in the prodromal phase. PPMI’s Ambitious Expansion updated PPMI clinical study protocol has set a target enrollment of approximately 4,000 participants across the nearly 50 sites worldwide. Study participants are mainly identified through a stage risk paradigm using a custom-built remote platform called PPMI Online In addition to identifying and further characterizing biomarkers, the researchers anticipate that the updated findings may inform further studies investigating PD therapeutics including clinical trials targeting synuclein, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), glucocerebrosidase (GBA), and others. “We hope that this effort will help identify reliable biomarkers for improving the diagnosis of PD and the development of effective disease-modifying treatments,” Dr. Riboldi explains. These efforts complement ongoing work at NYU Langone’s Parekh Center for Interdiscipinary Neurology , which are conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders. Parkinson’s Disease & Movement Disorders Giulietta M. Riboldi, MD, PhD, is a research assistant professor of neurology. Her research focuses on the discovery of new genetic variants associated with Parkinson’s disease and rare movement disorders. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment NYU Langone is one of 10 databank sites seeking to help researchers find the root cause of lingering symptoms. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease New research homes in on transcriptomic differences in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Leaders of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology discuss the vision, opportunities, and challenges. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Executive director of the Fresco Institute discusses how the unique partnership advances clinical care, research, and training. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Pelvic organ prolapse is common, affecting up to 50 percent of women over their lifetime. Although treatment can be straightforward, in a recent article in Case Reports in Urology , urogynecologist , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health share three patient cases to draw attention to the distinctive care needs of individuals with pelvic organ prolapse in the setting of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). A rare hereditary disorder, EDS impacts connective tissue and collagen synthesis. The condition not only predisposes patients to gynecologic and obstetric complications like pelvic organ prolapse but also increases the risk of surgery, which is often required for symptom relief. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS,” says Dr. Brucker, director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. “There’s very little in the published literature about the nuanced care required for proper management of pelvic organ prolapse in patients with EDS.” Safe and effective management of prolapse in this group requires a care team with diverse expertise and a deep understanding of patient expectations for treatment, he adds. Benefiting from Multiple Specialties Conservative symptom management is often the first line of treatment for pelvic organ prolapse. Rheumatologists and physiatrists offer treatments that aim to alleviate pain or discomfort or strengthen and stabilize pelvic floor muscles and connective tissue. If nonsurgical methods do not deliver the desired outcomes, reconstructive surgery is an option. Yet while surgery is associated with high success rates, Dr. Brucker emphasizes caution for patients with EDS. “Surgical planning for pelvic organ prolapse in individuals with hereditary connective tissue disorders requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed,” says Dr. Brucker. “Surgical planning requires additional care because of tissue characteristics, concomitant conditions, and perioperative risk such as propensity to bleed.” In the recent report, he and co-authors describe the distinct challenges tissue characteristics pose for surgeons and stress the importance of gentle perioperative and postoperative techniques that avoid cutaneous complications and minimize dressing changes to protect healing tissue. The potential for worsening dysautonomia, hemodynamic instability, trachea collapse, or spontaneous pneumothorax during anesthesia administration also requires extra caution. In addition, postoperative gastrointestinal complications are more common for these individuals, making collaboration with gastroenterology key. Younger Patients and Family Planning Although pelvic organ prolapse is often associated with aging, women with EDS and other connective tissue disorders tend to develop prolapse as early as their late 20s, says Dr. Brucker, without experiencing the known risk factors of pregnancy or menopause. Prolapse symptoms have a more dramatic negative impact on the quality of life for younger women with EDS, he adds. “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered,” says Dr. Brucker. “When discussing surgical options for younger patients with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS, it’s important to discuss family planning and future pregnancy.” “Younger women may have different treatment goals and considerations that need to be considered.” The authors describe the case of a 19-year-old female with EDS for which conservative management and physical therapy did not resolve a persistent vaginal bulge secondary to prolapse. The patient wished to pursue a surgical option. After considering the pros and cons of robotic uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrohysteropexy, the patient agreed to surgery, confirming no interest in future pregnancy. Following the successful surgery, abdominal pain in recovery required consultation with general surgery, and she reported notable improvement in vaginal bulge and pelvic pain at a follow-up six months later. Comprehensive, Quality Care Other cases in the report include those of two women, aged 38 and 52, with EDS, pelvic organ prolapse, and urinary incontinence. Robotic-assisted surgeries, including hysterectomy and sacrocolpopexy, successfully resolved their symptoms. Notably, collaboration with gastroenterology elevated the quality of care delivered to the 38-year-old patient. “Because she was multiparous and had defecatory problems, the urogynecology team involved other specialties to determine if rectal repair was necessary,” says Dr. Brucker. “It wasn’t, but because we had early input from gastrointestinal and colorectal surgery colleagues, there was already postoperative support in place.” “While the underlying pathology may be similar, no two individuals with pelvic organ prolapse and EDS are alike,” stresses Dr. Brucker. “We believe that collaboration with our colleagues in other specialties delivers the best outcome for each patient. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, Uro-Gynecology Benjamin M. Brucker, MD, an associate professor of urology and of obstetrics and gynecology, is director of the Division of Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery. His research interests include overactive urinary bladder, urinary incontinence, urodynamics, and pelvic organ prolapse. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine A recent retrospective study helps fill in gaps related to the cardiovascular benefits of colchicine by including a population generally excluded from the key clinical trials—patients with gout already taking long-term colchicine to prevent flares. The research was led by rheumatologist Michael Toprover, MD Gout, Urate, and Crystal Deposition Disease . NYU Langone researchers Daria B. Crittenden, MD Michael H. Pillinger, MD , served as co-investigators on the study. While colchicine—a foundational treatment for gout—has recently been shown effective in reducing major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in those with established coronary artery disease (CAD), data until now have remained limited on whether these benefits extend to high-risk patients with gout. “Patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use.” “We stratified patients by consistency of colchicine use, finding that patients with gout with the highest consistency of colchicine use had lower odds of MACE compared to those with more irregular use,” says Dr. Toprover. “We also saw an increase in risk when active colchicine users paused taking the medication.” Equilibrating and Reducing Risk For the study, the researchers collaborated with colleagues from the Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Healthcare System to review over 178,000 veteran patient records, identifying a total of 355 patients with gout and established CAD. Of these patients, 239 were categorized as colchicine users, and the rest, 116, had never filled a prescription for colchicine. Overall, the analysis revealed that the odds of MACE were similar between colchicine users and nonusers. However, the team also found that colchicine users had a higher baseline cardiovascular risk profile compared to nonusers, suggesting that colchicine may have served to equilibrate risk between the two groups. Dividing the patients into four quartiles based on the consistency of colchicine use revealed even more striking findings. The authors reported that patients in the highest continuous colchicine-use quartile, defined as taking the drug for more than 70 percent of the observation period, had lower odds of MACE than those in the lowest three quartiles, with no difference in baseline cardiovascular risk. Moreover, colchicine users had a lower rate of MACE during periods of active use compared with inconsistent use. “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects.” “We believe these results demonstrate that consistent colchicine use in gout patients provides cardioprotective effects,” Dr. Toprover says. “Patients with consistent use appear to derive more benefit than those with inconsistent use.” Future Research According to Dr. Toprover, prospective randomized trials are needed to study colchicine’s long-term cardiovascular benefit in gout patients, with the potential to impact the standard of care for all gout patients. “One hypothesis is that colchicine may stabilize plaque during acute rupture or erosion, minimizing downstream thrombosis and end-organ ischemia,” he says. “We want to add to the growing body of literature supporting the use of colchicine in high-risk gout populations.” Rheumatology, Gout Michael Toprover, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and director of the Gout Treatment Center at NYU Langone’s Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity. His research and clinical work focus on gout, pseudogout, and other crystal-induced arthritides. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch The back and surgical scar of a patient with scar dancing syndrome. Proper Diagnosis and Treatment Brings Spasm Relief After being injured in 9/11, a retired firefighter underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. While the surgery was uncomplicated, 3 months after the procedure he developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar. The movements continued 24/7, persisting in sleep and causing pain, insomnia, and difficulty breathing. After seeing multiple specialists including several neurologists, he received no formal diagnosis and saw no improvement despite receiving various medications and procedures. His movements had been present for 7 years by the time he met Steven J. Frucht, MD , director of NYU Langone Health’s Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, in July 2021. “When he first presented, I discussed with him that he had an unusual, peripheral movement disorder, likely a form of peripheral myoclonus,” Dr. Frucht says. After examination, he was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome, a very rare form of peripheral myoclonus that manifests in the weeks to months after surgery at the site of the surgical incision. The condition is classified as a peripherally-induced movement disorder , and while the pathophysiology remains unclear, it is thought to be due to aberrant reinnervation of the incised muscles with ephaptic transmission to surrounding neurons. “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments,” says Patrick Drummond, MD , a clinical assistant professor of neurology. “Botulinum toxin is the most commonly used treatment for symptomatic cases, but with a success rate of only 20 percent.” “The management of peripherally-induced movement disorders is extremely challenging as most cases are refractory to standard treatments.” Using ultrasound and electromyography, Dr. Drummond was able to inject botulinum toxin accurately and safely into the muscles involved, which remarkably provided the patient complete and sustained relief for the first time in 7 years. “Interestingly, the treatment effect of the injections has persisted longer than our initial expectations,” Dr. Drummond says. “Based on these results, we’re planning further studies to confirm the effectiveness of botulinum toxin in such patients.” An Extensive Surgery X-ray of the patient’s spine following posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery. In 2013, a 62-year-old retired firefighter, injured in 9/11, underwent an extensive posterior thoracic laminectomy and fusion surgery for resulting degenerative spine disease. Powerful Involuntary Muscle Spasms A view of the patient’s back and surgical scar. While the surgery was uncomplicated, in the 3 months following the patient developed powerful involuntary muscle spasms surrounding the surgical scar on his back. The continuous movements were present for 7 years but received no formal diagnosis despite evaluation by multiple specialists. A Successful Treatment Provider’s view as botulinum toxin is administered with the aid of ultrasound and electromyography. At NYU Langone Health, the patient was diagnosed with scar dancing syndrome. Ultrasound and electromyography were used to guide the delivery of botulinum toxin to the impacted muscles, providing complete and sustained relief for the first time in years. Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders Patrick Drummond, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of neurology. His research interests center on Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders including apraxia, ataxia, balance disorders, blepharospasm, cervical dystonia, chorea, corticobasal degeneration, dystonia, and essential tremor. Steven J. Frucht, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Division of Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders. His clinical practice focuses on Parkinson’s disease, dystonia, myoclonus, tremor, tics, chorea, and a variety of less prevalent movement disorders. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus Jill P. Buyon, MD; and Peter M. Izmirly, MD Hydroxychloroquine is a mainstay for treating patients with lupus, but long-term use can increase the risk of retinal toxicity. The absence of data on the effects of ending treatment, however, has made this a challenging area for clinical decision-making. While withdrawing the drug after a relatively short-term period in younger patients can increase the risk of lupus flares, any potential impact of withdrawing it after long-term use in older patients remains poorly understood. Funded by a major new grant from the NIH , researchers at NYU Langone Health will investigate whether discontinuing hydroxychloroquine in older patients deemed clinically stable can be done safely. An earlier NIH planning grant helped the collaborators demonstrate the feasibility of a full clinical trial. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” “Two of the most common questions that our patients ask are, ‘What are the side effects of this drug?’ and ‘Do I have to take this forever?’” says rheumatologist , who will serve as a principal investigator along with , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology and director of NYU Langone’s Ophthalmologists have reported an increase in retinal toxicity among older patients after years of hydroxychloroquine use. “At what point do you say that, potentially, risks could outweigh benefits?” asks Dr. Buyon. The new multisite study, Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Elderly Lupus Disease, or SHIELD, should fill a significant knowledge gap in the current treatment paradigm. A Closer Look at Older Patients Dr. Izmirly, Dr. Buyon, and colleagues began discussing the idea after observing how well many of their older patients were faring. “Many expressed enthusiasm about the possibility of being weaned from a lifelong course of hydroxychloroquine,” Dr. Izmirly says. “This all started from listening to our patients and coming up with an idea for testing whether stopping the drug after long-term use had any merit.” The team’s preliminary retrospective data suggested no difference in flare rates between stable patients 55 years or older who stopped taking hydroxychloroquine and those who continued on it. The new placebo-controlled, double-blind trial will offer a more definitive assessment by recruiting about 330 patients who are 60 years or older, have no evidence of active lupus, have taken hydroxychloroquine for at least seven years, and aren’t taking immunosuppressants or high-dose steroids. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients with lupus.” The study will randomly divide participants into one group that will stay on the drug and a second that will switch to a placebo. Both groups will be followed for one year to assess whether they experience any mild, moderate, or severe flares. “We hope to couple this project with cutting-edge basic science so that we can gain new insights into the immunologic status of older patients,” Dr. Buyon says. “If patients do flare, we will have a unique opportunity to evaluate potential biomarkers of the flare that have never been looked at in a population of this age.” Importantly, the trial will include multiple safety mechanisms to ensure that any signal of a lupus flare will trigger a rapid intervention, notes Dr. Izmirly. Building on a Unique Research Infrastructure The trial, Dr. Buyon adds, will benefit greatly from the medical center’s wide-reaching lupus program , leveraging its Specimen and Matched Phenotype Linked Evaluation , or SAMPLE, clinical registry, representing a highly diverse patient population of over 1,000 individuals. “We see patients at three sites, from all walks of life. We’re uniquely positioned to be able to offer this study to patients of all backgrounds,” she says. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Neurology’s 2023 annual meeting in Boston. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see a full listing of NYU Langone presenters here Walk Your Dizzy Patients! Gait Assessment as a Screening Tool for Posterior Circulation Stroke Session: S3 – Cerebrovascular Disease and Interventional Neurology: Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Population Health Jose L. Torres, MD Kara R. Melmed, MD : 1 pm Use of Simulation to Develop Telestroke Skills in Trainees : S10 – Utilizing Varied Modalities to Impact Learning and Make Curricular Changes Authors Kaitlyn Lillemoe, MD Sakinah B. Sabadia, MD Perrin A. Pleninger, MD Brandon Giglio, MD Tyler E. Smith, MD Elina Zakin, MD Ariane Lewis, MD Sondra R. Zabar, MD : 5:06 pm A Prospective Study of Optimal Dosing Strategies of Levetiracetam for Seizure Prophylaxis in Critically Ill Patients : S4 – Neurocritical Care : 1–3 pm Teaching Neurology Trainees to Provide a Terminal Diagnosis Using Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OCSE) : P1 – Education, Research and Methodology: Resident Education 1 : Mordechai Smith, MD; : 8–9 am Facing the challenges of chief resident year: A standardized experiential simulation leadership curriculum S13 – Evaluating Diversity, Mitigating Bias, and Overcoming Challenges in Residency Nada G. Abou-Fayssal, MD Aaron S. Lord, MD Aaron Nelson, MD Sara K. Rostanski, MD Cen Zhang, MD 11:27 am Tuesday, April 25 Longitudinal Cognitive Screening Findings in Pediatric MS vs. Pediatric Controls and Adult MS in a Multi-center Cohort S31 – MS Clinical Decision Making and Special Populations , Allan George, MA : 3:30–5:30 pm Is Fatigue Response to tDCS Mediated by Change in Affect? An Open-label tDCS-MRI Study S27 – MS Neuroimaging 2:48–3 pm Remotely Supervised tDCS for Persistent Post-Traumatic Headache in Veterans (ReStore) P7 – Neuro Trauma and Sports Neurology: Symptoms and Therapies 8–9 am Symptom stability throughout Ocrelizumab infusion cycle in patients with Multiple Sclerosis: final results of SYMptom Burden on Ocrelizumab, a Longitudinal Study (SYMBOLS) P7 – MS Therapeutics 1 Cheongeun Oh, PhD , Tamar Bacon African-Americans with Multiple Sclerosis Have a Higher Proportion of B-Cell Lineage Cells in Their Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Than White Patients P9 – MS Special Populations 5:30–6:30 pm Wednesday, April 26 Vigilance Improves in People with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Fatigue following Repeated Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Sessions Paired with Cognitive Training Delivered at Home S38 -Neuro-Rehabilitation Catherine Cho, MD : 3:54–4:02 pm Longitudinal Brain Volume Findings in an Outpatient Practice of Young People with MS P11 – MS Neuroimaging 2 11:45 am–12:45 pm Thursday, April 27 One year follow-up of neurologic symptoms in non-hospitalized neurology outpatients with post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) S49 – General Neurology Sujata P. Thawani, MD, MPH 5:06 pm Seminar Session Brain Fog Post-COVID and Intersection with Neurodegeneration C195 – Sequelae of COVID-19 1–3 pm Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s Perlmutter Cancer Center researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research annual meeting in Orlando, Florida. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year. Saturday, April 15 The lymph-borne melanoma proteome conditions lymph nodes for metastasis : 8:30–8:50 am Cancer cell states and plasticity in drug-induced adaptation Gustavo Starvaggi França, PhD Plenary Session PL01 – Beating KRAS: A 30-Year Overnight Sensation 4:15–6:15 pm Sunday, April 16 A personalized cancer vaccine, mRNA-4157, combined with pembrolizumab versus pembrolizumab in patients with resected high-risk melanoma: Efficacy and safety results from the randomized, open-label Phase 2 mRNA-4157-P201/Keynote-942 trial 12:45–1 pm 396 / 22 – Role of PHF8 in resistance to melanoma targeted therapies Senior Author Eva Hernando-Monge, PhD : 1:30–5 pm Monday, April 17 Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Scott E. Sherman, MD : 2:58–3:06 pm 1794 / 28 – Targeting mammalian SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes to improve T cell-based cancer immunotherapies Lead Author Elena Battistello, PhD : 9 am–12:30 pm 2283 / 30 – An immunosuppressive ectoenzyme-expressing T cell population is associated with non-responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade in metastatic melanoma patients : Ankita Mitra, PhD CT052 / 10 – A phase 1/2 randomized study of imvotamab monotherapy and in combinationwith loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphomas Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD SY26-01 – Mapping cellular plasticity in tumor progression and drug resistance Itai Yanai, PhD : 10:45–11:05 am 2819 / 10 – Genome-wide CRISPR screen identifies NANP as a radio-sensitizing target of GBM by regulating NF-κB pathway CT028 – A first-in-human phase 1 study of LY3537982, a highly selective and potent KRAS G12C inhibitor in patients with KRAS G12C-mutant advanced solid tumors Joshua K. Sabari, MD : 2:35–2:45 pm 3511 – Melanoma-shed, lymph-borne CSPG4 conditions the pre-metastatic lymph node niche : Haley duBois Amanda W. Lund, PhD : 2:37–2:52 pm Tuesday, April 18 SY17 – The Duplicitous Tumor Microenvironment : 12:30–2 pm MS.ET01.01 – New Tricks for Known Targets: Novel Approaches to Inhibit Oncogenic Signaling Janice Mehnert, MD 2:30–4:30 pm Health equity approaches to cancer prevention and control Chau Trinh-Shevrin, DrPH : 7–7:45 am Wednesday, April 19 Late Breaker LB291 / 4 – Uncovering gene fusions with 3D genomics: from clinical validation to actionable insights for undiagnosable solid tumors LB354 / 22 – 9p arm loss is an important predictor of immune evasion in several human cancers Author Joy Bianchi, PhD Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Blood and Marrow Transplant Program director shares advances driven by outpatient services, haploidentical transplant, and more. Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions Study suggests patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI with an initial negative biopsy should be promptly re-evaluated. Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care Researchers at a first-of-its-kind center will study the impact of telehealth technology on cancer care in veterans. Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer Key glycolytic enzymes acting as oncogenes may provide a novel path to overcoming cisplatin resistance. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Study offers a two-year view of erectile function following PGCA. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Significant gut microbiome instability was observed in patients with lupus that included transient growth spikes of RG and several other pathogenic species. ADAPTED FROM: Ann Rheum Dis . 2023;82:1315-1327. A genetic basis for the overgrowth of certain RG strains in patients with lupus flares is proposed. The researchers identified 34 genes that may provide the bacteria a growth advantage in an inflamed gut and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans recognized as inflammatory triggers. New research Annals of Rheumatic Diseases sheds light on the role that a specific gut bacterium may play in triggering flares and serious symptoms in people with severe systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In the study, researchers observed that significant blooms of Ruminococcus (blautia) gnavus (RG) are common during high-disease activity but never seen in healthy counterparts. They also identified an immunologic response to the bacterium that may contribute to the inflammation associated with disease flare-ups. Prior research by lead investigator and rheumatologist-immunologist , has shown that RG blooms themselves weaken the gut wall barrier, prompting the release from the gut of bacterial factors that stoke an overactive immune response and inflammation. “These findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont R. gnavus is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis.” “These newest findings are the strongest to date showing the silent growth of the pathobiont is a disease driver of active flares in patients with lupus nephritis,” says Dr. Silverman. The RG gut bacterial blooms appear to trigger a cascade of immunologic activity associated with inflammation. From the RG strains isolated during flares, researchers identified 34 genes with established links to the bacterium’s growth in patients with inflammation. The team also investigated the patients’ immune response to the bacteria and isolated specific bacterial lipoglycans known to trigger inflammation. The lipoglycans were common in RG strains in patients with lupus, but not in the study’s healthy control group. The presence of RG blooms concurrent with lupus flare-ups, along with the immune responses to the RG bacteria, suggests a biological pathway for lupus that could be targeted with future treatments. “As we continue to uncover how lipoglycans from bacteria trigger an immune response—and, in turn, inflammation—the hope is that we might turn to less toxic antibacterial therapies that target bacterial imbalance rather than dampen the immune system that protects us from infections like COVID,” Dr. Silverman says. Immunology Gregg Silverman, MD, is the Mamdouha S. Bobst Professor of Internal Medicine in the Department of Medicine and a professor in the Department of Pathology. He specializes in elucidating the immunologic factors underlying lupus and other inflammatory diseases. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, and David J. Byun, MD NYU Langone Health is launching a new research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy, with a unique vision to foster collaborative models that will co-localize clinicians and researchers with expertise in radiology, radiation oncology, medical physics, and cancer biology. Working together, this new team will develop novel precision radiation therapy platforms to more precisely target and treat cancer. The program is led by David J. Byun, MD , a radiation oncologist at Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD , an MRI scientist and a professor of radiology. Here, they discuss how their different footholds in clinical and translational science, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are poised to position the institution as a hub for innovation in cancer care. Advancing Precision in Cancer Treatment As co-leaders of the new research program, could you elaborate on your roles and the program’s mission? Dr. Lattanzi: The creation of this interdisciplinary research program is a collaborative effort between the Departments of , as well as key partners from industry. I’m currently the director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging and training group chair for the at NYU Langone, and will be responsible for the imaging aspects of the new program. We anticipate this new initiative will allow for greater synergy between imaging researchers and radiation oncologists at the institution. The partnerships we’ve developed with Philips and Elekta, two major companies in the field, will help us fund some of our projects and serve as a critical resource for the clinical translation of new techniques we plan to develop for precision radiotherapy. “One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort.” Dr. Byun: As a radiation oncologist, I have a special clinical and research focus on advanced imaging–guided radiotherapy. At the core of our mission is for this partnership to foster a spirit of collaboration between our world-renowned departments. One of the most striking aspects of our collaboration is that we are, from inception, equal partners with a shared vision leading this research effort. Benefits of the MR-Linac The cornerstone of the research program will be the MRI-Linear Accelerator (MR-Linac). Could you explain the significance of this technology? The Unity MR-Linac machine combines high-resolution MRI and a photon linear accelerator to treat tumors more precisely than currently available radiograph-based techniques. The technology will help to overcome many of the issues we commonly encounter within the conventional radiation treatment paradigm. With this novel platform, we can now adapt and eventually react in real time to anatomic changes, personalizing our treatment plan rather than using a “one-size-fits-all” approach. What we’re even more excited about is the potential for leveraging the unprecedented amount of longitudinal high-resolution MR images generated during radiation treatment to further our mission of image-informed, biologically driven radiation therapy. Adding to what Dr. Byun said, MR-Linac technology can potentially solve issues associated with inter-patient variation in radiation sensitivity, for example by allowing for treatment tailored to a patient’s unique tumor biology. Importantly, by combining morphologic information with quantitative biomarkers extracted from MRI, we’ll be able to monitor treatment response for each patient and make adjustments if needed to the radiation treatment plan. Adapting to Variability What current issues in radiation oncology research will the new program focus on addressing? We plan to develop novel quantitative MRI methods to monitor tumor and normal tissue response to radiation at the biophysical level and adapt the dose during treatment on a patient-specific basis. The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac. “The Center for Biomedical Imaging is one of the world’s leading research centers in the field of MRI, and we have many researchers eager to translate their advanced imaging techniques for the MR-Linac.” One of the most active areas of cancer biology and radiation oncology research is furthering our understanding of underlying tumor heterogeneity and normal tissue toxicity. While we currently accept that treatment response and side effects may vary from patient to patient with the same diagnosis and treatment, we have yet to fully elucidate the underlying mechanisms of such observed variability. With this partnership, we have a unique opportunity to answer many of these pressing questions by bringing together the best clinical trialists, cancer biologists, and quantitative imaging scientists. Our effort will lead to the development and clinical validation of novel genomic and imaging-based biomarkers that will translate to the bedside. A Focus on Application We plan to leverage our research program as a vehicle to increase the translation of new discoveries from bench to bedside. In achieving this goal, our plan over the next few years will be to further federal-level grant support, strengthen the relationship with our industry partners, and establish collaborations with experts beyond our two departments. Thus, it will also be imperative that we actively disseminate the knowledge gathered by our program’s efforts to the greater medical community. As we continue to integrate our understanding of basic science and clinical medicine, we will be able to accelerate the transfer of these discoveries to the practice of radiation oncology for the benefit of our patients. David J. Byun, MD, is a radiation oncologist specializing in the management of genitourinary cancer and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research and clinical interests center around the utilization of cutting-edge imaging and radiotherapy techniques to enhance the treatment of prostate cancer. Riccardo Lattanzi, PhD, is a professor of radiology, director of the Center for Biomedical Imaging, and co-lead of the research program in advanced imaging and precision radiotherapy. His research interests include biomedical imaging, quantitative MRI, and computational biology. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Functional microbiomics—the study of how microorganisms in the body change over time, and how the body responds—is emerging as a powerful tool to understanding a person’s disease risk. At NYU Langone Health, researchers are using the approach to measure host-microbe interactions in a variety of biological niches . These include the lower respiratory tract, where new data in Nature Microbiology finds the presence of certain species may contribute to respiratory failure in the context of COVID-19. Powerful Predictions There are currently no validated lower airway biomarkers to predict clinical outcomes, said first author Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD , an expert in functional microbiomics. “Increased bacterial burden and the presence of gut-associated bacteria in the lung have been shown to worsen respiratory outcomes in a few studies, but no one previously had looked at the primary site of COVID-19 disease, the lower airways,” Dr. Sulaiman said. Dr. Sulaiman works in the research laboratory of Leopoldo Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory. Together with colleagues, the researchers have shown how microbiome imbalances contribute to lung cancer progression and aspiration with oral commensals can affect immune responses during pulmonary infections. Effects of Commensal Bacteria In their most recent collaboration, the researchers evaluated data on 589 critically ill adults with severe COVID-19. All of the study participants were receiving mechanical ventilation and a subset (142 patients) underwent bronchoscopy, which allowed for a deeper evaluation of the lungs. Patients who died, or who spent at least 28 days on mechanical ventilation, had comparatively higher levels of the oral commensal Mycoplasma salivarium in their lower airways. Notably, there was no statistically significant association between microbiologic bronchoscopy results and clinical outcomes, with the exception of SARS-CoV-2 infection. “While we did not find that isolation of a secondary respiratory pathogen was associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation or fatal outcome, we did identify critical microbial signatures—characterized by enrichment of oral commensals, high SARS-CoV-2 load and decreased anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG response—associated with fatal outcome,” the authors wrote. A Case for Targeted Therapy By using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, the researchers were able to start connecting airway flora and viral load to clinical outcomes in COVID-19. “The data in this analysis support that oral commensals are frequently found in the lower airways of critically ill COVID-19 patients and that differences between groups could be due to differential microbial pressures related to host factors, or that dynamic changes in the lower airway microbes affect host immune response to this viral infection,” Dr. Segal explained. Dr. Segal says more targeted antiviral therapy, rather than broad spectrum antibiotics, are called for when caring for critically ill patients with COVID-19. He notes a similar approach may be indicated for patients with other respiratory infections, though more research is required. Leopoldo Segal, MD, is the William Rom and David Kamelhar Associate Professor in the Department of Medicine. He is also director of the lung microbiome program, a critical care specialist, and pulmonologist. Imran Sulaiman, MD, PhD, is an adjunct professor of medicine in the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research centers around bioinformatic approaches to measuring host-microbial interactions, including functional microbiomics. Protecting Lupus Patients from Severe COVID-19 Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) are at high risk of severe disease from COVID-19 due to underlying immune dysregulation and prolonged use of immunosuppressants. Recent evidence suggests lupus drugs can also impact clinical and serological responses to vaccination against the virus , with higher rates of hospitalizations and attenuated seroreactivity in patients with immunosuppressed rheumatic disease following initial vaccination with an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. new research published in The Lancet Rheumatology , an assistant professor of medicine, patients with lupus who receive an additional dose of COVID-19 vaccine are significantly less likely to have a subsequent SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with patients who only receive the initial vaccine series. “Our research shows that booster or additional vaccine doses are critically important for protection against breakthrough infection in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena says. “The arrival of the Omicron variant provided us with more comprehensive data and a larger sample size to bolster our confidence in booster doses.” Severe Disease and Hospitalization The new study evaluated the clinical efficacy and seroreactivity of vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 among 163 patients from the NYU Lupus Registry who had received an initial vaccination series with or without an additional vaccination dose. By analyzing patient encounters and chart review, the researchers tracked the occurrence of breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections after vaccination for at least six months following the initial vaccination series or until breakthrough infection. For confirmation of breakthrough infection, a positive PCR or antigen-based test was required, either self-reported or performed at a clinical site. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic.” Dr. Saxena and colleagues reported that 22 percent of patients who received an additional vaccine dose had a breakthrough infection versus 42 percent who did not, adding that among 44 total breakthrough infections, only 2 patients were hospitalized due to COVID-19, both of whom improved clinically and were subsequently discharged. In addition, no deaths related to COVID-19 occurred. “The rarity of severe disease in vaccinated patients with SLE and COVID-19 exemplifies the protective effect of vaccination in those at high baseline risk, especially compared with earlier in the pandemic,” Dr. Saxena explains. Clinical Recommendations Given the inherent risks in this patient population, Dr. Saxena recommends that all patients with lupus should be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and receive a booster dose to enhance or restore protection that may have diminished over time following the primary series vaccination. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, Dr. Saxena and colleagues plan to keep monitoring vaccine effectiveness, especially against severe disease in high-risk patients with rheumatic disease. “Ongoing surveillance programs to detect and classify new viral variants will be essential to inform policy and recommendations about booster vaccines in patients with lupus,” Dr. Saxena adds. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital The director of children’s surgical services discusses key elements for achieving high-quality, family-centered care. Striving for a More Complete View of Lupus Patients The longitudinal NYU Lupus Registry, with nearly 900 enrolled patients, includes the vast majority of patients seen by NYU Langone Health rheumatologists. “While it’s been a very good tool for clinical and biological information, one thing that’s been missing is patient-reported outcomes,” says , associate professor of medicine. Through a CDC-funded Special Interest Project tied to a Prevention Research Center grant, Dr. Izmirly is collaborating with , an expert on health equity across socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical variations, to add these critical measures to the lupus registry. Through the researchers’ complementary expertise, the two-year project, called STRIVE (Systemic Lupus Targets Related to Improving Vital Endpoints), will enable them to overlay patient-reported outcomes, socioeconomic factors, and area-based measures onto the existing clinical and biological data. Together, the measures could provide an unprecedented view of potential contributors to SLE outcomes, says Dr. Izmirly. “Our lupus patient cohort spans a broad socioeconomic demographic and is racially and ethnically diverse,” he says. “The new sources of data will complement what we’ve already captured in our database, giving us an even more complete picture of the patients.” “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data.” Compiling A Richer Dataset The team will implement a new infrastructure to collect the expanded dataset, while patient advisors will help determine the importance of certain measures to the patients’ overall health experience. Some of the data points relate to what Dr. Gold terms more “patient-centered measures” like pain severity and interference, anxiety, depression, and fatigue. “That’s something only the patient knows,” Dr. Gold says. “For some people with lupus, their blood work always seems fine, but they might not be able to get out of bed.” The project will also explore potential associations between patients’ regular physical activity and factors such as their perceived stress, their SLE flares or hospitalizations, and the concentrated poverty in their zip codes. Layering the data may provide more clarity on significant non-clinical contributors to worse outcomes, such as food or housing insecurity, difficulty accessing healthcare, and other experiential and psychosocial factors. “Residential segregation, poverty and other area-based factors affect how people access care and manage their care and symptoms,” Dr. Gold says. “So health outcomes can be impacted not only by the clinical and biological measures that Dr. Izmirly and colleagues have measured for years, but also by other patient-reported measures.” “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients.” A Population Health Lens on Lupus Care Population health is more often focused on common conditions such as heart disease and cancer. Adding a rich layer of data to the well-characterized cohort in the lupus registry presents a unique chance to discover measures that could improve the lives of other patients, says Dr. Gold. “This is a rare opportunity to bridge the two fields with a wealth of patient-reported data,” she says. “I hope it will allow us to identify new ways to think about our lupus patients and figure out interventions that will help improve their quality of life and reduce their morbidity and mortality,” Dr. Izmirly adds. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age Daniel H. Sterman, MD speaking with patient. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As interventional pulmonology began to emerge, Daniel H. Sterman, MD , now the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care, was just completing his medical training. He had the chance to work with pioneers who built the subspecialty into what it is today—a hybrid of pulmonary medicine and thoracic surgery, where minimally invasive procedures are used to diagnose and treat cancers and other lesions in the chest. Today, Dr. Sterman heads the multidisciplinary pulmonary oncology program, leading multidisciplinary teams in important research and clinical care intitiatives. Here, he discusses the further evolution of the field. Dr. Sterman, you’ve been involved in the field of interventional pulmonology since its inception. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Sterman: Thirty-five years ago, we were primarily treating obstruction of the main airways and bronchi in cancer and other conditions with the goal of palliation of symptoms. There was not yet the interest in offering minimally invasive treatments for lung cancer and other pulmonary disorders. Today, interventional pulmonologists are combining leading edge technologies with translational expertise to both palliate the airways and, in the near future, definitively treat cancers and other suspicious lung lesions. We have the capacity to perform more advanced diagnostics and fewer invasive surgeries, and apply therapies directly where they’re needed. Responding to the COVID-19 Crisis Early in the pandemic, NYU Langone Health pioneered a protocol for implementing early, modified tracheostomy in ICU patients. What role did interventional pulmonology play? This was a major joint initiative led by , the director of lung transplantation, to create a pathway for percutaneous tracheostomy for those suffering from COVID acute respiratory distress syndrome. It was really revolutionary in March and April 2020; many centers wouldn’t do tracheostomy or bronchoscopy until there was evidence that there was no active virus in the lungs because of concerns of infection of healthcare providers. We showed that a tracheostomy within seven days minimized the need for respiratory support and got patients off the respirator, out of the ICU, and into recovery sooner. We were able to create an algorithm that ensured this could be done safely for the patient, provider and ancillary staff in the room—and that we could improve overall outcomes and survival. Other institutions confirmed the approach and guidelines were published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine that adhere closely to the NYU Langone Health protocol. Advanced Diagnostics for Suspicious Lesions Your team has been at the forefront of using robotic bronchoscopy and other advanced technologies for lung diagnostics. Can you describe some of these applications? We were the first commercial site in the United States to implement the Ion system, Intuitive’s robotic-assisted platform for minimally invasive biopsy in the lung. are using 3D robotic bronchoscopy to perform , reducing the need for more invasive procedures. Dr. Bessich, working with in neurosurgery, is also combining robotic bronchoscopy with to evaluate and diagnose suspicious lung nodules without destroying tissue. This would provide real time, on-site confirmation of the presence of malignancy, allowing for diagnosis and treatment of peripheral lung lesions in a single procedure. Delivering Therapeutics for Precision Treatment You’re leading two clinical trials testing bronchoscopic delivery of therapeutics to boost the immune response rate in lung cancer. What role does interventional pulmonology play in this groundbreaking cancer research? Interventional pulmonologists are developing the capacity to deliver thermal energy to peripheral lung cancers. Navigating to a lesion with robotic bronchoscopy, we can confirm we are at the correct location with 3D fluoroscopy and radial probe ultrasound, and in the near future, ablate the lesion with thermal energy such as with a flexible microwave probe. In the phase II LuTK02 study , one of the first intratumoral immunotherapy trials in lung cancer, we’re testing a therapy called gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy, delivering a novel immunotherapeutic directly into the pulmonary tumor or involved lymph nodes to accentuate the benefits of systemic checkpoint inhibitors in patients who aren’t responding as well as we’d like. In a separate trial— Bronchoscopic Cryo-immunotherapy of Lung Cancer —we are testing another method for inducing immune responses to lung tumor cells in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. These techniques may serve as “ in situ vaccines.” If provided in addition to systemic therapy, surgery, or radiation, the multistep scheme could offer an important new method for controlling or reversing tumor growth and preventing lung cancer recurrence. Technology Investments & Expertise For this vision to come together, what are the necessary pieces? Do you have the technology armament? We’ve made a significant investment in the two major robotic bronchoscopy platforms to complement the electromagnetic platforms we already have. Our clinical research draws on the extensive expertise of our interventional pulmonology program , as well as the Precision Immunology Laboratory Division of Thoracic Imaging and Perlmutter Cancer Center’s Thoracic Oncology Disease Management Group . It’s a wonderful collaboration and an exciting paradigm in which NYU Langone Health can take a lead role in large trials. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the subspecialty? We are still in the early days of the intratumoral study, but this new modality is incredibly exciting and where the field will be heading. Right now, this is assisting in the treatment of advanced lung cancer, but it could be used to deliver pharmacologic agents such as chemotherapy and immunotherapy, in combination with thermal ablation, for early lung cancer. Dr. Sterman is a scientific advisor for Candel Therapeutics. Daniel H. Sterman, MD, is the Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine and director of the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine. His research focuses include translation gene therapy and vaccine therapy for lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other pleural malignancies. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? Directly injecting biologics into lung cancer tumors might improve response rates beyond those achievable with systemic therapy alone, according to the research behind a new phase II clinical trial testing the approach. The pioneering open label, multisite trial combines gene-mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy with standard of care for patients with refractory stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer. The immunotherapy—two courses of aglatimagene besadenovec—is injected directly into an accessible tumor site under CT or ultrasound imaging. Patients also receive 14 days of oral valacyclovir to heighten broader immune responses to the injectable biologic, which contains herpes simplex virus gene HSVtk. The two-punch approach directly manipulates the tumor microenvironment while supporting systemic effects, explains principal investigator , Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. “When you give the patient valacyclovir, the drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response. It acts not only locally where you do the injection, but anywhere in the body where tumor cells may be.” “The drug in the tumor site is converted into a toxic metabolite that kills tumor cells and activates—together with HSVtk—a robust immune response.” The study is one of the first to deliver immunotherapy directly into patients’ lung tumors. Patients will be followed for three years following the investigational treatment. Researchers will assess tumor response rates, adverse events, immune cell responses, patient-reported symptoms, and survival rates. A New Phase II Trial The phase II trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of adding gene mediated cytotoxic immunotherapy to standard of care in patients with stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer that are not responding to a first line immune checkpoint inhibitor. Directly Targeting Tumors The study will determine whether delivering two rounds of the immunotherapy directly to tumor sites, via CT or ultrasound guided injection, is a safe approach that improves tumor response rates. Anticipated Systemic Effects Directly killing tumor cells in an immune stimulatory environment may induce the body to detect and destroy more cancer cells throughout the body, says principal investigator A Long-Term Solution Dr. Sterman and other interventional pulmonologists hypothesize that in the long-term, combining injectable biologics with available immune checkpoint inhibitors may provide a less invasive, safer, and more effective means of treating lung cancer. Does Mental Health Contribute to Psoriatic Arthritis Outcomes? fMRI showing neuroconnectivity in a patient without (a) and with (b) psoriatic arthritis. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Roughly half of patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) achieve good outcomes with anti-inflammatory medication, says , assistant director of the . A key unanswered question is what keeps the other half of patients from achieving the same outcome. “One of our hypotheses is that it’s actually depression and anxiety, or mental health stressors, that are keeping patients from achieving full remission.” She notes about 30 percent of patients with PsA have anxiety and depression, and previous research has suggested that those with depression are much less likely to achieve remission. Dr. Haberman has launched a project called Mental Health and Neuroconnectivity as Predictors of Pain and Treatment Response in Psoriatic Disease. The multi-phase study is using functional MRI (fMRI) to seek out brain signals for pain, depression, and inflammation and assess whether such imaging might inform better treatment options. “We’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered.” “For patients who don’t achieve good outcomes, we’re often escalating their immunomodulatory therapy when the answer may be that there are other connectivity pathways that might have been altered and that we should be targeting,” Dr. Haberman says. Neuroconnectivity May Influence Outcomes The project, funded by the National Psoriasis Foundation’s More Than Skin Deep grant and the Department of Medicine Young Scholars Program, is a collaboration with Mariana Lazar, PhD , an fMRI expert in the Department of Radiology. In the first phase, they will compare imaging results of patients recruited from the Psoriatic Arthritis Center to volunteers with and without depression. Patients will fill out depression and anxiety indices and undergo clinical exams to assess their level of inflammation. If the study establishes significant differences in neuroconnectivity, Dr. Haberman plans to compare fMRI results before and after treatment on biologics to assess whether the intervention improves the inflammatory disease and neuroconnectivity results. Research has already shown fMRI can point out signaling pathways in the brain and distinguish among different types of depression. Preliminary studies in rheumatoid arthritis have also suggested that the disease causes alterations in brain connections that may contribute to pain sensations. “If psoriatic arthritis, and in particular inflammation, can cause similar alterations in brain connectivity, then immunomodulatory medication alone may not be able to reverse those alterations completely,” Dr. Haberman says. Mindfulness as a Potential Intervention Adjuvant therapies could help normalize or reset altered neuroconnectivity pathways in PsA patients. One potential reset may be mindfulness-based cognitive therapy, which Dr. Haberman and Amanda J. Shallcross, MPH, ND , an expert on mindfulness in the Department of Population Health will explore in a subsequent phase of the project. “We want to see if we can help reset and alter those brain connections as well as improve psoriatic disease,” Dr. Haberman says. The approach has already shown utility in improving rheumatoid arthritis. “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection… What is that connection? Can we visualize it?” “We know that there’s a mind-joint and a mind-skin connection,” Dr. Haberman adds. “The questions we’re trying to get at are, what is that connection? Can we visualize it, and if so, how can we use that as a tool for precision medicine?” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics in Autoimmune Diseases To aid the search for better therapeutics for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, a 2014 NIH-sponsored effort called the Accelerating Medicines Partnership, or AMP, first focused on understanding the cellular and molecular pathways of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. Under a new program launched in December 2021, an initiative called AMP Autoimmune and Immune-Mediated Diseases, or AMP AIM , has expanded to include psoriatic disease and Sjögren’s syndrome as additional areas of focus. NYU Langone Health is a lead center in the ambitious effort, which has attracted $58 million overall in public and private funding over five years. The partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and several other academic centers with the NIH, the Food and Drug Administration, pharmaceutical companies, and nonprofit organizations. , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology in the Department of Medicine, will serve as contact principal investigator of the AMP AIM program’s lupus team. , the Steere-Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, will lead the program’s microbiome core and serve as co-principal investigator of a psoriatic disease clinical team, and Peter M. Izmirly, MD, associate professor of medicine, will oversee a clinical site for the Sjögren’s syndrome team. “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance.” An Acceleration of Discoveries in Lupus Research NYU Langone’s Division of Rheumatology led one of the lupus disease teams for the earlier AMP program that paved the way for the now-expanded effort. The team’s focus on , aided by an enrollment of more than 150 patients at NYU Langone who contributed kidney tissue for research, helped establish new protocols for tissue preservation and dissociation. From resident kidney cells and 21 clusters of immune cells, the team’s single-cell transcriptomic data yielded multiple discoveries. Publications in Nature Immunology, for example, described evidence of local activation of B cells progressive stages of monocyte differentiation and tubular type I interferon and fibrotic signatures as predictors of poor responses to treatment “As the pace of discovery in the biology, genetics, and environmental regulation of SLE [systemic lupus erythematosus] accelerates, the speed and efficiency of translationally applying that research to clinical care assumes even greater importance,” Dr. Buyon says. “We now have an unprecedented opportunity to harness technological advances to deconstruct and reconstruct the enormity of phenotypic and immunologic heterogeneity in this prototypic autoimmune disease.” Within the new AMP AIM progam, the group lead by Dr. Byron—the Lupus Omics Cutaneous Kidney Investigation Team (LOCKIT)—is a partnership with Johns Hopkins University, The Ohio State University, and the University of Pennsylvania. The institutions’ well-established patient registries, Dr. Buyon says, will help the team illuminate the molecular underpinnings of early kidney disease and cutanous disease with the hope of bringing new therapies to patients. Probing the Microbiome and Skin for Clues The AMP AIM program’s microbiome core, or Micro-TeACH (Microbiome Technology and Analytic Center Hub), led by Dr. Scher, will incorporate intestinal, skin, and other tissue-related microbiome features to aid in the pathogenesis reconstruction for various autoimmune and immune mediated diseases. The hub will help researchers interrogate the gut microbiome and its potential metabolic capacity to modulate anti-rheumatic drugs’ pharmacokinetics and response to therapy. In addition, the tools will enable an integration of the cutaneous and oral microbiome with tissue-derived spatial transcriptomics and single-cell technologies. The psoriatic disease team Dr. Scher is also co-leading has been dubbed ELLIPSS, or ELucidating the Landscape of Immunoendotypes in Psoriatic Skin and Synovium. Participants in varying stages of psoriatic disease will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium to better identify the distinct functional or pathobiological mechanisms. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints and produce and promote inflammation there.” “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Any patterns and pathways, in turn, could have major implications for therapeutics . “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach,” Dr. Scher says. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone Health physicians and researchers are taking a leading role in training other providers nationwide after their success in a national project focused on developing an improved model for integrated pediatric emotional care. The national initiative began in 2017 when joined eight other children’s hospitals in a pilot backed by the American Board of Pediatrics Foundation. Families of children living with chronic conditions had asked the board to develop a plan to correct shortfalls in addressing their emotional health needs. An interdisciplinary collaboration between the , part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, and the , with key assistance from , yielded a quality improvement project that has since become a go-to model. “Ninety percent of the time the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family.” “Out of the nine children’s hospitals, we seemed to have had the most traction, which is a testament to Sala Institute and the embedding of behavioral health specialists here in our outpatient space, which many other hospitals just don’t have,” says pediatric endocrinologist An Expanding Scope Based on their pilot project in the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the researchers have since expanded the quality improvement initiative to include ambulatory care in the Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology Section of Pediatric Neuro-Oncology “An important lesson we have been able to share with other children’s hospitals around the country is that the inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It may look very different in each space.” “The inclusion of emotional health in the medical visit can be successful in different settings by incorporating it in ways tailored to individual practices.” The national initiative is now called the Roadmap to Resilience, Emotional, and Mental Health . Dr. Gallagher and Becky Lois, PhD , co-director of the KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, have given lectures and led training seminars for the pediatrics board to share their findings with other institutions. Project leaders have adopted several metrics to measure improvements in their state of readiness. “The last one and hardest to achieve as a children’s hospital was creating a protocol to address behavioral emergencies experienced by parents because provision of care to an adult is not how a children’s hospital is designed,” Dr. Gallagher says. Thanks to the initiative, the Pediatric Diabetes Center has developed a carefully considered plan for how to care for an adult having an emotional crisis. Dr. Gallagher credits Sala Institute for contributing to the project’s success through developing educational materials, providing funding and offering the institute’s unique expertise in pediatric program quality improvement. Consistency with a New Step To address concerns that providers may lack the time, skills, or resources to address their patients’ emotional health, the project’s integrated behavioral health team is helping to hone skillsets and best practices. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals.” “Ninety percent of the time when we were piloting the Roadmap Initiative at the Pediatric Diabetes Center, the intervention that was needed and used was just listening and being there with the family,” Dr. Gallagher says. “We are not asking pediatric providers to be mental health professionals, but we are trying to make sure that we address the emotional and mental health of every child and caregiver at every visit.” Dr. Gallagher recognizes the challenge of consistently implementing these practices given all of the competing demands on providers. “It’s like trying to take a dance that you have perfected over 20 years and add a step in the middle of it,” she says. The step isn’t necessarily difficult, she adds, but it is new and requires a cognitive shift. “Sometimes we just get so busy,” Dr. Gallagher says. “I stop myself outside the door before appointments, take 10 seconds and a deep breath, and remind myself that this could be me on the other side of the door, this person and their child. I go in with that in mind: person first.” New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services Experts bolster the clinical toolkit for evaluating atypical presentations. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks A major multicenter trial of fetal heart rate home monitoring is already showing signs of success. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 appears to trigger a hyperinflammatory state that increases segmental aortitis risk. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis A newly discovered enzyme-inactivation pathway may help illuminate a core pathogenic mechanism. Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Even with immunosuppressant use, the majority of SLE patients retain immunoreactivity to SARS-CoV-2. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Inherited disorders of complement regulation and atypical HUS help explain SLE, APS, systemic THMA with multiorgan injury. Assessing Splenic Nerve Stimulation for Rheumatoid Arthritis An anterolateral view (right side) of the spleen (red) relative to the pancreas. The stomach has been removed and the visceral surface of spleen is shown. PHOTO: Science Source A first-of-its-kind clinical trial is testing whether an implanted stimulatory device might aid human patients with treatment-refractory rheumatoid arthritis. In animal models of inflammation, repeated stimulation of the splenic nerve, a branch of the vagus nerve, can change lymphocyte trafficking and the inflammatory response. The human clinical trial is seeking to do the same by propagating nerve signals that shift circulating immune cells from a pro-inflammation to an inflammation-resolving state. The key-sized device, developed by Galvani Bioelectronics, emits pulses of electricity to the splenic nerve to stimulate the immune system. NYU Langone Health researchers partnered with the company to help design the randomized, double-blind trial and to serve as a lead center. In January 2022, David H. Goddard, MD , a clinical professor in rheumatology, collaborated with bariatric surgeons , to implant the device in the first North American patient—and just the second worldwide. The Splenic Nerve: A Promising Target “One of the hallmarks of rheumatoid arthritis is an overactivity of B lymphocyte function,” Dr. Goddard says. “That’s one of the reasons why you see very high levels of immunoglobulin being produced at the same time.” Damping down that immune cell activity may help shut down the cascade of downstream effects such as the local production of inflammatory mediators like tumor necrosis factor and cytokines within the synovial membrane of a joint. “There’s quite a bit of medical literature suggesting that stimulation of different parts of the autonomic nervous system can result in significant changes in bodily function. It’s also been clear over a long period of time that if you stimulate the vagus nerve, you can affect the way in which lymphocytes not only traffic but also behave.” For rheumatoid arthritis, reprogrammed immune cells that travel to the synovium may help reduce or resolve inflammation and pain in the affected joints. A Potential Key to Modulating Immune Cells The experimental neurostimulator, which wraps around the splenic nerve, is connected via a cable to a second device that sits in a pouch created in the patient’s anterior abdominal wall. That device, in turn, is connected by Bluetooth to an external controller that turns the device on for a defined period of nerve stimulation every day. Although stimulating a main trunk of the vagus nerve can bring unwanted effects such as a drop in blood pressure, stimulating nerve function close to the spleen may affect lymphocytes without the untoward effects of vagal nerve stimulation. The trial is actively enrolling patients and seeking referrals. Altogether, the multicenter trial is aiming to enroll 26 patients. After the device or a sham used as a placebo has been implanted in the first four participants, Dr. Goddard says, the FDA will review the trial data. “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the next question is, how effective is it really in humans?” “There’s a lot of excitement around the fact that we’ve managed to get this far. Now the question is, how effective is it really in humans.” The therapy could have enormous potential not only for rheumatoid arthritis, but also for a range of other autoimmune diseases including inflammatory arthritis and inflammatory muscle diseases if proven effective, Dr. Goddard says. David H. Goddard, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and medical director of NYU Langone Ambulatory Care at Brooklyn Heights and Cobble Hill. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Managing the recurrence of urethral stricture after urethroplasty can be challenging. The Optilume drug-coated balloon, which delivers paclitaxel to the urethral wall to, in theory, prevent recurrence, is a promising novel treatment for urethral stricture. Although randomized studies have demonstrated the safety and effectiveness of Optilume urethral dilation for treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management, there have been no published studies on its efficacy following open urethroplasty. The following Case of the Month demonstrates the application and potential utility of Optilume urethral dilation for endoscopic management of recurrent urethral stricture following urethroplasty. Since the relative rarity of stricture recurrence after urethroplasty makes patient recruitment in clinical trials a challenge, peer-to-peer discussion on the application of Optilume dilation after urethroplasty may help advance treatment and improve patient care. The Optilume drug-coated balloon is approved by the FDA for treatment of anterior urethral strictures that are less than or equal to 3 cm long. The device has demonstrated success in treating recurrent strictures after endoscopic management. To date, there are no published data on its effectiveness for recurrence after urethroplasty. In the case presented, a 45-year-old male experienced lasting relief after electing Optilume dilation for a 1-cm proximal apical recurrence following urethroplasty for a 5-cm stricture. Further demonstrations of the success of Optilume in managing similar cases may support its use following urethroplasty. The patient first presented to his primary care physician with severe lower-urinary-tract symptoms (LUTS), including straining, weak stream, and hematuria. Though the patient initially attributed his condition to diet, his AUA Symptom Score of 33 represented severe LUTS. His post-void residual (PVR) was 450 ml, and uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5.6 ml/second, average flow rate 2.2 ml/second, 138 cc of voided volume. Upon referral to urology, retrograde urethrogram demonstrated a long-segment (5 cm) bulbar urethral stricture (Figure 1). A retrograde urethrogram reveals a 5 cm bulbar urethral stricture. Source: NYU Langone Health At this point, the patient presented to NYU Langone Health, where we discussed management options, including uncoated-balloon catheter urethral dilation or urethroplasty: Optilume was not yet FDA-approved for treatment of urethral strictures. The patient understood the high probability of recurrence following dilation, based on the length of his stricture, and elected dorsal buccal graft onlay urethroplasty. One year later, the patient presented with worsening LUTS, including progressive diminution of his urinary stream, and had a PVR of 125 ml. Uroflow measured as follows: max flow rate 5 ml/second, average flow rate 3 ml/second, 150 cc voided volume. Cystoscopy confirmed a recurrent 1-cm, 5-Fr urethral stricture at the proximal apex. At this time, we counseled the patient on options, including repeat urethroplasty and urethral dilation with or without Optilume, and he chose Optilume dilation. It has now been one year since the procedure, and the patient continues to have a durable result. Optilume Dilation: The Procedure The procedure was performed in the operating room under general anesthesia per initial guidelines. However, Optilume can now be performed in the ambulatory clinic. A flexible cystoscope was advanced into the urethra to the 5-Fr bulbar urethral stricture, confirmed to be 1 cm long. A 0.035 sensor wire was advanced into the bladder, and a 24-Fr uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced over the wire. Under direct visualization, the uncoated dilating balloon catheter was advanced to the urethral stricture and inflated to 20 mmHG. The balloon catheter was removed and a 24-Fr Optilume dilation balloon was advanced under direct vision to the urethral stricture and inflated for a five-minute dwell time. The cystoscope and the Optilume drug-coated balloon catheter were removed. A 16-Fr council Foley was advanced over the wire and into the bladder and connected to gravity drainage. Following the uncomplicated procedure, the patient was discharged and returned 72 hours later for Foley removal. Optilume care instructions include abstinence or using a condom for 30 days after treatment to avoid exposure of a partner to paclitaxel, and abstinence or contraception with sexual partners of childbearing age for at least six months after treatment to avoid potential risks to a fetus. Optilume Dilation: Evidence and Outcomes Evidence supporting Optilume utilization is from ROBUST III, a prospective, randomized, multicenter, single-blind trial that compared Optilume to traditional methods of endoscopic management of anterior urethral stricture. Eligible participants were adult males with strictures less than or equal to 3 cm in length who had had at least two prior endoscopic treatments. Participants in the intervention arm were pretreated with an uncoated balloon or direct vision internal urethrotomy to greater than or equal to 20 Fr. An Optilume drug-coated balloon was administered, with balloon sizes selected based on lumen diameter and stricture length. Inflation with the Optilume drug-coated balloon for five minutes or more allowed delivery of paclitaxel, and then a Foley catheter was placed for two to five days. At two years, patients who underwent Optilume dilation demonstrated sustained improvements in LUTS severity, captured using the International Prostate Symptom Score, and voiding parameters. When evaluating additional interventions, patients in the Optilume arm at two years had fewer repeat interventions than those in the control arm at one year (77.8 percent versus 23.6 percent). In summary, Optilume is established as a safe and effective endoscopic treatment for those who wish to avoid or delay formal urethroplasty. In this Case of the Month, we also illustrate how Optilume urethral dilation is a safe and effective option to consider for patients who present with recurrent strictures after urethroplasty. Endoscopic management of recurrent urethral strictures following bulbar onlay urethroplasty is feasible. Almost half of these recurrences occur at anastomotic sites, and success rates of direct vision internal urethrotomy for short recurrent strictures is 60.5 percent. Recurrence after a trial of endoscopic treatment, however, should be managed with repeat open reconstruction. It is important to note that there is no consensus on the ideal definition of success after urethroplasty. Some have considered freedom from re-intervention for urethral stricture as success, though others point out that certain patients with recurrences may elect no further intervention. Another definition, established by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS), is the ability to pass a 16-to-17-Fr flexible cystoscope beyond the area of reconstruction. This definition is challenging, because routine endoscopy on all patients who undergo urethroplasty is not feasible due to costs and lack of evidence of its impact on further patient management. Another definition is based on the postoperative maximal flow rate (Qmax), but this measure is multifactorial, and a high Qmax does not rule out recurrence. A final definition is freedom from LUTS or an improvement compared to baseline. New tools, including the Urethral Stricture Surgery (USS) patient-reported outcome measure, and a reduced version called the Urethral Stricture Symptom and Impact Measure (USSIM), have been used to evaluate symptoms. These new tools, though important and necessary, also bring new challenges for utilization. Ultimately, the definition of success after urethroplasty should come from the patient. As a provider, I discuss with each patient what successful treatment of their stricture would look like and identify the best approach to achieve those goals. In the case presented here, the patient defined success as no longer straining to urinate, having a steady stream, and being able to empty his bladder. These results were achieved with Optilume dilation. 1. Elliott SP et al. (2022). One-Year Results for the ROBUST III Randomized Controlled Trial Evaluating the Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture. ; 207(4): 866–875. 2. VanDyke ME et al. (2024). Optilume Drug-Coated Balloon for Anterior Urethral Stricture: 2-Year Results of the ROBUST III Trial. BJUI Comp ass; 5(3): 366–373. 3. Barbagli G et al. (2006). Anastomotic Fibrous Ring as Cause of Stricture Recurrence after Bulbar Onlay Graft Urethroplasty. ; 176(2): 614–619; discussion 9. 4. Rosenbaum CM et al. (2015). Internal Urethrotomy in Patients with Recurrent Urethral Stricture after Buccal Mucosa Graft Urethroplasty. World J Urol ; 33(9): 1337–1344. 5. Zaid UB et al. (2016). Management of the Recurrent Male Urethral Stricture. ; 17(4): 33. 6. Meeks JJ et al. (2009). Stricture Recurrence after Urethroplasty: A Systematic Review. ; 182(4): 1266–1270. 7. Erickson BA et al. (2014). Multi-Institutional 1-Year Bulbar Urethroplasty Outcomes Using a Standardized Prospective Cystoscopic Follow-Up Protocol. ; 84(1): 213–216. 8. Baradaran N et al. (2019). Clinical Significance of Cystoscopic Urethral Stricture Recurrence after Anterior Urethroplasty: A Multi-Institution Analysis from Trauma and Urologic Reconstructive Network of Surgeons (TURNS). ; 37(12): 2763–2768. 9. Tam CA et al. (2016). Critical Analysis of the Use of Uroflowmetry for Urethral Stricture Disease Surveillance. ; 91: 197–202. 10. Breyer BN et al. (2017). Comprehensive Qualitative Assessment of Urethral Stricture Disease: Toward the Development of a Patient-Centered Outcome Measure. ; 198(5): 1113–1118. 11. Jackson MJ et al. (2011). Defining a Patient-Reported Outcome Measure for Urethral Stricture Surgery. Eur Urol ; 60(1): 60–68. Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD Urology, Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Nnenaya A. Mmonu, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and population health. Her areas of clinical interest include urethral strictures and upper tract genitourinary reconstruction. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage CT scan of the patient’s pelvis demonstrating a prostatic abscess. Source: NYU Langone Health Prostatic abscesses are uncommon but potentially serious infections, more frequently seen in older men with chronic comorbidities. While many providers may rely primarily on antibiotics alone for the treatment of small- to medium-size abscesses, combining antibiotic therapy with transperineal drainage may accelerate patient recovery and lead to better outcomes. Not all urology residents are skilled and confident in performing transperineal drainage. Ensuring that all such residents have the opportunity to master this technique during their training is a key step in enhancing the care and quality of life for patients with these painful complications. To highlight the benefit of having proficiency in transperineal drainage, this Case of the Month describes its use to successfully manage a prostatic abscess in a 78-year-old male. Draining the abscess permitted a quick correction of the patient’s fever and rising white blood cell (WBC) count. The patient presented with a > 3 cm abscess, fever, confusion, and a rising WBC count reaching >15,000 cells/μL (microliter). Interventional radiology could not perform a transgluteal drainage due to the small size of the abscess and recommended intravenous antibiotics. With concern for the patient’s rising WBC count, urology performed a transperineal drainage. Two days after the procedure, the patient’s WBC count dropped below 10,000 cells/μL and his fever resolved. The patient presented to the emergency department following multiple episodes of falling. He had a medical history of type 2 diabetes, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, hypertension, and a left below-the-knee amputation secondary to gangrene. The patient had been lethargic for five days, with markedly reduced oral intake. His family found him on the floor at home, prompting his presentation. On admission, the patient was febrile, with a temperature of 101.3 degrees F. He was cleared by trauma surgery after CT imaging, but an incidental finding on the CT scan prompted a urology consult: a “left intraprostatic fluid collection most compatible with abscess.” The patient was subsequently admitted for management of a prostatic abscess, failure to thrive, and recurrent falls. Physical examination of the patient was notable for an enlarged, boggy prostate, while blood work revealed a rising WBC count (Figure 1). Figure 1. A summary of the patient’s physical examination, laboratory results, and imaging findings. Source: NYU Langone Health The patient was initiated on intravenous Zosyn and intravenous fluids. Interventional radiology (IR) was consulted for potential abscess drainage. However, IR did not drain the collection, as it was too small to target with a pigtail catheter placed by a transgluteal approach. Instead, IR recommended continued intravenous antibiotics with reimaging for resolution of the collection. Since the patient’s WBC count continued to rise, the urology service decided to perform a transperineal drainage of the prostatic abscess under transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guidance (Figure 2). Figure 2. Transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) image of the pigtail catheter placed in the abscess cavity. A total of 13 ml of purulent fluid was drained from the abscess. Cultures grew Klebsiella pneumoniae , which was sensitive to ceftazidime. The infectious disease team recommended a regimen of 2 grams of ceftazidime administered during hemodialysis. Blood cultures subsequently confirmed K. pneumoniae Follow-up CT imaging two days after placement of the catheter confirmed the appropriate position of the catheter and a decrease in the abscess size. The patient’s WBC count decreased to 9,500/μL, and he became afebrile. After five days, the drainage from the pigtail catheter ceased, and a subsequent CT scan demonstrated resolution of the abscess cavity, allowing for catheter removal (Figure 3). The patient completed a four-week course of intravenous antibiotics, as per infectious disease recommendations. This case spotlights the advantage of having transperineal drainage in the armamentarium of the urologist. Instead of waiting weeks for intravenous antibiotics to treat the infection, our urology service’s use of transperineal drainage allowed the fever to break and WBC to decrease within just two days. However, many urology residents are increasingly lacking experience and ease with the technique, even though they do develop expertise in transperineal biopsy. Integrating training in transperineal drainage would therefore be straightforward and beneficial. Figure 3. CT scan of the patient’s pelvis five days after transperineal drainage, showing no abscess cavity. The pigtail catheter is along the left prostate gland, where the previously identified prostatic abscess was. Source: NYU Langone Health This case also offers an overview of the challenges and considerations in managing prostatic abscesses. Prostatic abscesses are most frequently observed in men aged 50 to 60, but they occur in all age groups. In younger patients, the presence of a prostatic abscess warrants investigation for underlying comorbidities. Historically, prostatic abscesses were associated with chronic bacterial prostatitis, voiding dysfunction, and neurogenic voiding dysfunction. However, chronic medical conditions are now recognized as significant risk factors. These include diabetes mellitus, renal failure, liver cirrhosis, and immunocompromised states such as rheumatologic conditions. Genitourinary instrumentation is also a leading cause of prostatic abscess formation. According to one report, a history of an indwelling urethral catheter, recent urethral instrumentation, and recent prostate biopsy were present in 29, 17 and 8 percent of prostatic abscess cases, respectively. Diagnosis is primarily confirmed through imaging modalities such as CT, MRI, or TRUS of the prostate. Management depends on the abscess size and patient symptoms. For abscesses smaller than 2 cm with multiple loculations, as well as small abscesses associated with leukocytosis and minimal symptoms, antibiotic therapy based on urine or blood culture sensitivity or both can be initiated for two to three weeks, at which point the patient should be reevaluated. If the abscess persists, TRUS-guided needle aspiration and/or perineal drainage with a pigtail catheter, or transurethral resection/unroofing of the abscess cavity should be performed. If the abscess is larger than 2 cm and associated with severe lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), urinary retention, sepsis, or leukocytosis, then TRUS-guided transperineal abscess drainage with a pigtail catheter and urinary diversion with a suprapubic catheter may be considered. Another alternative may be to engage IR to perform a transgluteal drainage. If there is persistence of the abscess despite drainage, transurethral unroofing of the large abscess should be considered. The advantage of transperineal or transgluteal drainage over unroofing is the preservation of antegrade ejaculation. For all large abscesses, prolonged antibiotic therapy for four to six weeks is required. The successful outcome of this case underscores the importance of careful monitoring and a tailored multidisciplinary treatment approach. 1.Ackerman AL et al. (2018). Diagnosis and Treatment of Patients with Prostatic Abscess in the Post-Antibiotic Era. Int J Urol ; 25(2):103–110. 2. Elshal AM et al. (2014). Prostatic Abscess: Objective Assessment of the Treatment Approach in the Absence of Guidelines. Arab J. Urol. ; 12:262–268. 3. Vyas JB et al. (2013). Transrectal Ultrasound-Guided Aspiration in the Management of Prostatic Abscess: A Single-Center Experience. Indian J. Radiol. Imaging ; 23:253–257. Frederick A. Gulmi, MD, chief of urology at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, is a clinical associate professor of urology and vice chairman of the Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. National Funding Drives Innovation in Rheumatology Research NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s has been awarded the prestigious T32 training program grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) multiple times. The funding expands the division’s ability to train and educate the next generation of research leaders in rheumatology. , assistant director of NYU Langone Health’s and former recipient of the T32 grant, discusses how the funding provided her unique training opportunities and financial resources for the acquisition and development of research skills. She also highlights some of her ongoing multidisciplinary research and clinical care initiatives, fostering new innovations in the field of rheumatology. Equipping New Researchers with Knowledge and Skills Dr. Haberman, you’ve been a recipient of the T32 training grant. How did it help you as a researcher? Dr. Haberman: Overall, the grant funding has allowed me to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills that will help me to develop my own independent research program—something I’ve always wanted to do. “As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients.” As a fellow in the Division of Rheumatology , I worked under the mentorship of , director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, as well as other members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s , which fostered my interest in psoriatic arthritis and outcomes-based research. As the field continues to advance, it is important to focus on how we translate discoveries made in the lab into the office, to directly benefit our patients. Unique and Specialized Training Opportunities How did the funding prepare you for a career in outcomes-based rheumatology research? Along with the funding came unique training opportunities. For example, I was able to obtain an MS in Clinical Investigation (MSCI) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute , which allowed me to become more efficient and productive in my research. With respect to cross-discipline collaboration, opportunities were readily available in my training program. Strong mentorship from investigators in other departments provided me with a solid foundation on which to analyze data and design new studies—at the heart of research education for clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different scientific disciplines. Growing a Research Program What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through your research program? My funding from the T32 training grant ended in 2021. Since then, I’ve secured additional funding from the Rheumatology Research Foundation and the National Psoriasis Foundation to continue my research in psoriatic arthritis. In collaboration with Dr. Scher, I’m leading a major multicenter, interventional, preventive study, . The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis. The purpose of this study is to determine if the drug guselkumab can prevent progression of psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis when compared to placebo and to other standard of care treatment in patients with high-risk psoriasis. In addition to providing critical insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the standard of care for patients. Looking ahead, what other projects are you excited about? I’m excited about a new project investigating changes in brain connectivity in individuals with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as the risk and effects of depression on pain in psoriatic disease. We are currently seeking funding for this and other related investigations. Surgical Dermatology Services People with skin cancers, including basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma , as well as people who have noncancerous lesions such as atypical moles, cysts, or lipomas, may be referred to our surgical dermatologists for treatment. Our doctors are specialists in dermatologic surgery and oncology, including Mohs micrographic surgery. Our surgical dermatologists are experts in Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction, a type of surgery that offers the best outcomes for skin cancers. Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction is a specialized form of skin cancer surgery that offers the highest cure rate for certain types of skin cancer and high-risk tumors. It allows your surgeon to remove the least amount of healthy skin tissue, providing the best functional and cosmetic outcomes. Our dermatologic surgeons are members of the American College of Mohs Surgery, and are trained in skin cancer removal and reconstructive surgery. Our Surgical Dermatology Team Our doctors provide surgical dermatology services to treat skin cancers and problematic skin lesions. John A. Carucci, MD, PhD Maressa C. Criscito, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology Todd Coven, MD Mary L. Stevenson, MD We offer services online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. 646-754-2277 Our Programs Caring for a family member who has or another trouble with thinking or memory can be both emotionally and physically challenging. At NYU Langone’s Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program, we understand and are here to help. Our team of experts can provide you with the care consultation, support, education, and referrals that can make a difference. Our research has shown that caregivers who receive emotional and practical support experience measurable improvements in stress and emotional and physical wellbeing. Our experts evaluate people with memory-related conditions and help families cope with related symptoms. Learn More About Our Center Our support program offers comprehensive services, including care consultation, resources, education, and cultural experiences free of charge, online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. We will refer caregivers from other areas to appropriate local resources. When you contact us, we connect you with a team that is focused on understanding and helping you with your caregiving challenges. We talk with you about what you are experiencing now and what to expect in the future. Support for Family Members Our services are free of charge and are available virtually and in person. Some of the services we provide include the following: comprehensive evaluation of your situation, so we can personalize our services to suit your needs and those of the person you are caring for education to help you understand the causes and symptoms of memory disorders and how to help your family member have the best possible quality of life time away from your care responsibilities—called respite—through special programs specifically designed for people in the early stages of memory and cognitive impairment, and referrals to professionals who can help you find the most appropriate provider individual and family care consultation with a social worker who can meet with you one-on-one, either via online video conferencing, by phone, or in person referrals to support groups and other organizations in your community ongoing access to our team for as long as you need us Our goal is to make it easier for you to meet the needs of your family member who has problems with thinking and memory, and to help you maintain your own wellbeing. Our services are free and available to family caregivers who live in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island or whose relative with dementia lives in those boroughs. Family caregivers include spouses, adult children and grandchildren, other relatives, and close friends. The Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program is led by , and is supported by a five-year grant from the New York State Department of Health. For more information about our services, please call 646-754-2277. If you would like us to call you, please email Family.Support@NYULangone.org . Include your name, phone number, and the best time for us to reach you. Refer a Caregiver Physicians and other healthcare providers can refer a caregiver to our program by calling You may contact us via email at Our office is open Monday through Friday, from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Cosmetic Dermatology Services Our dermatologists specialize in aesthetic dermatology and skin rejuvenation procedures. We offer innovative treatments for cosmetic concerns, including redness, pigmentation, fine lines, wrinkles, and aging. Cosmetic and laser treatments are performed by our dermatologists using the latest technology advancements. We provide several different types of laser treatments, including those that promote collagen; improve fine lines, wrinkling, and skin tone; address pigmented lesions and vascular lesions; and treat scars and stretch marks. We also use laser treatments to remove unwanted hair and tattoos. We use the latest laser and dermatologic treatments for cosmetic concerns such as wrinkles, fine lines, and spider veins. Our most popular cosmetic services include the following: neurotoxin injections, including Botox and Dysport, to treat frown lines, forehead wrinkles, crow’s-feet, and smile lines laser treatments for wrinkles, redness, hyperpigmentation, and skin resurfacing Kybella, or deoxycholic acid, injections to treat and improve the appearance and profile of moderate to severe fat below the chin, also called a double chin microneedling, a procedure that improves the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles, and scarring platelet-rich plasma therapy (PRP), a medical procedure that promotes rejuvenation, stimulation, and regrowth of hair and skin sclerotherapy, a procedure used to eliminate the appearance of spider veins soft tissue fillers, including Restylane, Juvéderm, Voluma, Belotero Balance, Sculptra, and Radiesse, for wrinkles, volume loss around the mouth and cheeks, and lip augmentation Our Cosmetic Dermatology Team Our doctors work together to provide the highest-quality care to treat cosmetic conditions affecting the skin. Behçet’s disease, a rare condition that causes inflammation in the blood vessels, can be difficult to diagnose because its symptoms, including mouth sores, skin problems, and arthritis, are found in many other conditions. An accurate diagnosis of is the key to managing these symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Behcet’s Disease Center, part of NYU Langone’s , our team has the experience to give you a correct diagnosis and start you on an effective treatment plan. Our level of expertise has made us one of the leading centers for the care and treatment of Behçet’s disease, considered a rheumatic condition because it causes blood vessel inflammation. We are also at the national forefront of research aimed at understanding the body processes that create the symptoms of Behçet’s disease, as well as the development of new treatment options. Because of the rarity of Behçet’s disease, people travel from outside New York City to our center for diagnosis and treatment. Please contact NYU Langone’s programs for help coordinating your travel plans and your medical experience at NYU Langone. Our rheumatologists are nationally recognized experts on Behçet’s disease. Yusuf Yazici Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement A new nano-arthroscopy system offers a promising alternative to traditional arthroscopic procedures. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Monitored anesthesia care plus soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia offers multiple benefits and no added risks. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Research finds same-day video calls most enhance patient satisfaction, followed by phone calls. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Leaders in orthopedics describe building a well-integrated system to advance high-quality care. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study investigates treatment to minimize blood loss in joint replacement patients with cardiovascular comorbidities. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders recently gathered in Chicago for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) held from March 22–26, 2022. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization In a survey of the general public (n = 202), researchers asked whether people thought they would prefer a toe-to-thumb transfer or pollicization for a thumb reconstruction after a traumatic injury, and no strong preference between the procedures was indicated. For respondents from China, 35.6 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 46.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 17.8 percent were unsure. For respondents from India, 34.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 57.2 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 8.2 percent were unsure. For respondents from Western countries, 38.4 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 50.5 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 11.1 percent were unsure. In a survey of the general public (n = 202) and surgeons (n = 106), surgeons underestimated the public’s perceived importance of having a five-digit hand. When asked how important it was to have a 5-digit versus 5-digit hand, 81.5 percent of respondents in the general population said it was important or very important, 6.0 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 12.5 percent had no opinion. Of the surgeons questioned, 58.7 percent said it was important or very important, 37.5 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 3.8 percent had no opinion. For thumb reconstruction after a traumatic hand injury, a lack of objective data on outcomes following index pollicization versus toe-to-thumb transfer has left patients and providers with few unbiased guideposts. To provide cultural context that may aid decision-making, , and colleagues collaborated with international researchers to examine differences in preferences and outcome expectations among hand surgeons and the general public in six Eastern and Western countries. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully … patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought.” Despite previous suggestions that preferences may depend upon location, their analysis revealed that the majority of surgeons involved in the study favored toe-to-thumb transfer over pollicization. In contrast, the general public didn’t strongly favor one procedure over the other, regardless of location. Surgeons held more optimistic expectations than the public on both procedures, underscoring the necessity of research to evaluate and more conclusively determine which reconstruction procedure optimizes patient outcomes. As it stands today, the researchers suggest discussing the pros and cons of each procedure, and ensuring good alignment in outcome expectations prior to surgery, to increase patient satisfaction and decrease anxiety and subsequent conflict. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully. Our analysis shows that patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought,” Dr. Hacquebord says. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine has received more than $10 million in philanthropic support, with more than $5 million of it dedicated to research training. The center’s three-pronged approach combines psychiatry, medicine, and preclinical research. SOURCE: NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine A first of its kind, the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine will advance a burgeoning area of basic science by providing a dedicated, essential infrastructure for research and training in therapeutic use of psychedelics. The new center builds on long-standing expertise at NYU Langone Health that garnered more than $10 million in donations for its creation. Researchers at NYU Langone have published seminal papers on the clinical benefits of psychedelics to treat a range of conditions, including addiction, cancer-related psychiatric conditions, major depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. The center boasts more than 30 dedicated researchers and is currently enrolling in five clinical trials . For early career scientists, the center offers the nation’s first Psychedelic Medicine Research Training Program “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained.” “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained and continue to yield medical breakthroughs backed by sound science,” says center director , a professor of psychiatry. For more information, visit the Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Buccally absorbed cannabidiol (CBD) improves pain control and patient satisfaction following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a presented at the 2022 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also suggests higher CBD doses may correspond with improved outcomes. , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the , and first author on the study, explains that while there is growing interest in CBD for managing pain without opioids, data on safety and effectiveness are scarce. Co-authors on the study include , an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, , chief of the Division of Sports Medicine, and Andrew S. Rokito, MD , chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. “Oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” “CBD formulations are readily available but are relatively unregulated and unmonitored through the FDA,” Dr. Alaia says. “Our study is one of the first to formally evaluate the use of CBD in orthopedic surgery and shows that oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” Participants either received oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on body weight) to be taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos identical in taste and appearance. NYU Langone received an investigational new drug application (IND) from the FDA to use ORAVEXX in the study. All participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take one to two tablets every four to six hours, as needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in those receiving CBD compared to placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, patient satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher in those receiving CBD on both postoperative day one and two. “While results at later time points did not always reach statistical significance, overall, patients receiving CBD consistently reported lower levels of postoperative pain and higher satisfaction compared to patients in the placebo group,” explains Dr. Alaia. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction compared to those receiving 25 mg. “It is interesting that the greatest effects of the medication were observed when patients were in more significant pain. This gives us hope that a well-developed CBD formulation can have similar promise and effectiveness in other pathologies in which pain can be quite significant,” Dr. Alaia says. Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, and Arthrex. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment A cardiac CT provided the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Multimodal Imaging Adds Another Layer of Innovation When the same patient kept presenting to the emergency department with ventricular tachycardia requiring shocks from an implanted defibrillator, Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD , a cardiac electrophysiologist and specialist in cardiovascular disease, considered all options before his team in the and radiation oncology decided the case warranted a groundbreaking approach: stereotactic radiation therapy guided by novel, multimodal imaging. The patient had already undergone several cardiac catheter ablations to prevent the dangerous heart rhythm and reduce the recurrent need for shocks. The ventricular tachycardia stemmed from a prior heart attack, and the area of the heart causing the arrhythmia could not be treated by a catheter-based procedure. “We were able to figure out exactly where this patient’s rhythm problem was coming from,” Dr. Barbhaiya says. “But because of its location, the energy source we use, and the thickness of the tissue, we couldn’t get enough energy to the area for a successful ablation.” “It’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option.” Planning the radiation treatment required an army of specialists all working to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue in the patient’s heart that could be targeted to prevent the arrhythmia. A key element was a non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, with non-invasive mapping, a procedure that creates an electrical map of the ventricular tachycardia after the heart is stimulated to recreate the arrhythmia. The patient wears a monitoring vest while an electrophysiologist stimulates the heart via the patient’s defibrillator and tracks cardiac responses. The electrical maps are combined with a cardiac CT scan. Dr. Barbhaiya relied on radiologists, medical physicists, as well as outside consults to evaluate the combined images and determine, within millimeters, the best region and approach for radiation therapy. While the procedure required upwards of a week to plan, the actual radiation therapy was less than 15 minutes. “It’s clearly very early and the technology is still under development, but it’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option,” Dr. Barbhaiya says, adding, “Treatment was done on a Friday, and they were discharged on a Saturday.” CT Provides A Foundation A cardiac CT provides the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy used to treat arrhythmias that do not respond to ablation or medical therapy. The emerging approach uses multimodal imaging to precisely identify areas of the heart to irradiate. A Personalized, Electroanatomic Map First, electrophysiologists create a 3D map of a patient’s heart to display electrical activity and reveal the arrhythmia location. Non-Invasive Program Stimulation (NIPS) Using a technique known as non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, the arrhythmia is induced, and the next step is to map electrical activity during the arrhythmia. Developing A Radiation Treatment Plan Combining the images allows a multidisciplinary team to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue that can be irradiated with confidence (red boundary). The area encompasses the entire arrhythmia, while minimizing the risk of radiation exposure to other areas of the heart. Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD, is an assistant professor and specialist in cardiac electrophysiology and cardiovascular disease. His clinical interests include mapping and ablation to treat atrial fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, and other arrhythmias. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, and a surgical team. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For treating adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), orthopedic surgeons have long viewed posterior spinal fusion as the gold standard despite some significant drawbacks. “I’ve been doing scoliosis surgery for more than 20 years now,” says Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD , clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “We do a good job of correcting the spinal curves with fusion surgery, but the quality of life for patients is negatively impacted.” Particularly among younger pediatric patients, the fusion technique can interfere with growth, motion, and flexibility and prevent their involvement in sports and other activities. Diagnosed with scoliosis himself at the age of 12, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri was fortunate to avoid surgery. The experience, though, inspired his career and dedication to helping maintain others’ quality of life. A More Flexible Alternative Introduced a decade ago, , or VBT, has rapidly developed into a viable alternative. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s expertise in VBT has helped advance the muscle-sparing method, which uses flexible polymer cords threaded through titanium screws attached to vertebrae on one side of the spine. The process, called growth modulation, pulls the spine into alignment as a child grows. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri is one of the only surgeons to use the VBT procedure for early-onset scoliosis in patients as young as six years old, and to use CT imaging for precise titanium screw placement to minimize the risk during surgery. To improve the curve correction and minimize the risk of cord breakage, he is among the few surgeons to employ two cords with a double set of screws instead of a single cord. “The idea with this technology is to let them move around,” says Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri. “Maybe they’ll need a fusion when they’re older, but at least you’re giving them a good quality of life, they can continue to grow, the spine can continue to grow, and the lungs can continue to develop.” “The idea with this technology is to let them move around … I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery.” Grateful families have sent videos of their children resuming the activities they enjoyed before the VBT procedure, often within four to six weeks. “I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery,” he says. Comparing Results in Curve Correction In addition to potential breathing and back problems from scoliosis, clinical data suggest that patients with an L5 tilt of more than 16 degrees are at higher risk for future disc degeneration if the tilt remains uncorrected. The VBT procedure has yielded good results in Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s initial cases and may help prevent disc degeneration better than fusion, but the two techniques hadn’t been compared head-to-head. He recently led a single-center retrospective cohort analysis of 41 patients with AIS. Among them, 21 underwent a VBT procedure and 20 received a posterior spinal fusion. The researchers used preoperative and postoperative radiographic analyses to measure differences in the patients’ main, secondary, and fractional curve Cobb angles and in the L5 tilt. At two years postoperatively, the VBT cohort had significantly smaller fractional curve angles and L5 tilt, translating into a greater correction of the L5 tilt (-17.2 ± 10.2 versus -6.3 ± 6.9 degrees. The benefit of VBT over posterior spinal fusion was maintained even after propensity matching to account for demographic differences. The results suggest that the VBT technique, which is better at preserving scoliosis patients’ range of motion, flexibility, and growth, offers an effective non-fusion alternative for correcting the spinal deformity. In addition, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri says, VBT may lead to fewer complications later in life by preventing degenerative changes—an added benefit he hopes to substantiate with further study through his clinical practice. Spine Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of early-onset scoliosis. He specializes in the surgical and nonsurgical treatment of scoliosis, spina bifida, spinal injuries in athletes, and a variety of other spine conditions. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in Chicago, November 5–7. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Many patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) complain of feeling lethargic and foggy-headed—symptoms at odds with common conceptions of ADHD. These individuals may be suffering from sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) , a comorbid symptom set characterized by persistent dreaminess, spaciness, hypoactivity, and difficulty initiating tasks. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains.” recent study led by NYU Langone Health researchers—the first of its kind—suggests that the stimulant lisdexamfetamine (LDX), marketed as Vyvanse®, may be an effective treatment for SCT in adults with ADHD. A Little-Understood Syndrome Although SCT co-occurs most frequently in ADHD, it can accompany conditions such as depression and schizophrenia as well; debate persists over whether it is a separate disorder. What’s certain is that it can pose daunting challenges for people who have it. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains,” says , a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD program. “Yet little is known about treating this syndrome in adults.” To find out more, Dr. Adler led a two-phase (phenotypic and treatment) randomized crossover trial of SCT and ADHD in adults at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. The phenotypic phase characterized SCT, ADHD, and executive function symptoms in individuals who had ADHD and SCT versus those who had ADHD and were SCT-negative. An interim report of the NYU Langone cohort confirmed previous findings that individuals with both SCT and ADHD, versus ADHD alone, had higher levels of inattentive and other symptoms. The new study, , reported on the treatment phase. A Trailblazing Trial The study was the first medication trial for SCT in adults with ADHD, rather than children, and the first trial of amphetamines (known to be the most effective ADHD drugs) for comorbid SCT in any age group. Dr. Adler and his multi-institutional team studied 38 adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT in the 10-week crossover trial, with two double-blind treatment periods. During the first period, subjects were randomized to receive either oral LDX or a placebo; they crossed over during the second treatment phase, after a placebo washout period of several weeks. The results were encouraging: LDX reduced self-reported symptoms of SCT by 30 percent. The drug also lowered ADHD symptoms by over 40 percent, and significantly corrected deficits in executive function. Strikingly, the researchers found that only 24 percent of overall improvements in SCT symptoms were due to improvements in ADHD symptoms. Further SCT Research In addition to indicating that LDX could be an effective treatment for adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT, Dr. Adler observes, “our study provides further evidence that sluggish cognitive tempo might be distinct from ADHD.” It also suggests that LDX might help control the syndrome in other contexts. “The next line of research,” he adds, “is to determine whether patients who have SCT without ADHD will respond similarly to this drug.” Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction Twenty months after the surgical insertion of the temporary hip spacer, the patient suffered a severe dislocation with a near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Correction of Dissociated Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer A 65-year-old woman who had undergone a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip subsequently contracted a bacterial infection that required several revision surgeries at NYU Langone Health to implant an antibiotic-loaded temporary hip spacer and treat her trochanteric fracture and instability. Twenty months after revision, the patient presented to the emergency department after experiencing discomfort and noticing a significant change in her leg length for three to four days. Pelvic X-rays revealed a severe dislocation of the hip spacer with near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Prior history of trochanteric fracture added to the patient’s hip instability. Orthopedic surgeon , worked with colleagues to confirm the absence of infection and performed a same-day revision surgery in which he converted the spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. “The challenges of the case were ruling out infection, addressing a four-day-old dislocation in a non-compliant patient with pressure on her sciatic nerve, and managing the loss of her trochanter and the resulting instability from a lack of attached abductor muscles,” Dr. Meftah says. “We also had to meticulously remove all of the cement from her femur and acetabulum and take into account her stiff spine to avoid implant impingement while getting her leg length equal.” “We managed to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Computer navigation helped the surgical team ensure an anatomy-appropriate correction of the patient’s leg length and proper implant positioning. “It’s teamwork, and that includes infectious disease, anesthesia, and the entire perioperative surgical teams,” Dr. Meftah says. “We managed to take care of this patient very rapidly in a very safe manner to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Two weeks post-surgery, the patient was walking well with a cane and pleased with her progress. X-Ray of an Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer One year after a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip, the patient sustained a periprosthetic dislocation with trochanteric fracture and chronic bacterial infection. She underwent revision surgery to implant an antibiotic-loaded hip spacer with a constrained liner. The loss of her left trochanter is visible in this X-ray. Hip Implant Dislocation and Dissociation A Same-Day Correction A same-day revision surgery converted the temporary spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. Hip and Knee Reconstruction, Orthopedic surgery Morteza Meftah, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery who specializes in hip and knee reconstruction and in diagnosing and treating arthritis. He is chair of the Center for Orthopedic Innovation and co-director of Robotic and Computer-Assisted Joint Replacement Surgery. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Dr. Kathryn Moore. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff “There are four million breast cancer survivors in the United States and they’re at increased risk of cardiovascular disease due to treatments and lifestyle changes that come with a cancer diagnosis,” says , Jean and David Blechman Professor of Cardiology. While this increased risk is known, questions have remained about whether a major cardiovascular event actually impacts cancer pathogenesis. In a letter published in Dr. Moore and colleagues used mouse models and human data to better understand the effects of myocardial infarction on breast cancer recurrence. The study is one of many that have paved the way for Dr. Moore to become a nationally renown cardiovascular researcher. In 2021, she was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and named the American Heart Association’s Distinguished Scientist in Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology. In 2022, she received the Gill Heart and Vascular Institute Award for Outstanding Contributions to Cardiovascular Research. Curiosity-Driven Research Just as with her other studies, Dr. Moore’s latest research into cardiovascular disease and cancer was driven by curiosity. “I was intrigued by our early finding that breast cancer survivors with a cardiovascular event have up to a 60 percent increased risk of recurrence, plus an elevated risk of death from their cancer,” Dr. Moore says. “I wanted to understand what it is about heart attack that is causing this elevated risk.” “We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” On her short list of possibilities was resultant ischemia, tissue damage, release of immunomodulatory factors, or other signaling changes. As it turned out, reprogramming of the immune system plays a major role. The Tumor Microenvironment Yields Answers As a first step, the researchers confirmed that myocardial infarction accelerates breast cancer tumor growth in mouse models. Then, they examined the post-heart attack tumor microenvironment for altered immune cell composition. Dr. Moore’s team found significant changes in levels of immune cells, specifically a sustained increase in circulating monocytes that were later recruited to the tumor site. There were no changes in numbers of macrophages, neutrophils, or dendritic cells. The elevated monocytes—monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or mMDSCs—are immunosuppressive. Depleting these cells eliminated the tumor growth advantage in mice following heart attack. The mMDSCs also had a transcriptional phenotype epigenetically imprinted in the bone marrow. “Mouse models revealed the heart attack reprograms hematopoetic cells in the bone marrow to be more immunosuppressive, which allows the tumors to grow faster,” Dr. Moore explains. Impact On Patient Care Dr. Moore’s team also performed a retrospective analysis to translate their findings to patients with early-stage breast cancer. The researchers found that, for patients with no existing cardiovascular disease, a post-diagnosis heart attack or similar was associated with a 59 percent increased rate of breast cancer recurrence and a breast cancer-specific mortality rate of 60 percent. “Already there are implications for physicians,” Dr. Moore says. “Cardiovascular risk factors should be carefully managed in cancer survivors. We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” Next, Dr. Moore is focusing on biochemical signals that may trigger the epigenetic reprogramming of bone marrow cells following heart attack. The work requires careful collaboration between the and the new at NYU Langone Health, of which Dr. Moore is the founding director. “Our goal was to create a center focused on interdisciplinary research, and cardiovascular disease in cancer is a great example,” she says. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 A hallmark of acute COVID-19 is the high incidence of thrombotic events associated with moderate to severe illness. The Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines 4 ACUTE (ACTIV-4A) study, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)-coordinated ACTIV research program , is a landmark trial involving more than 3,000 patients in the U.S. and other countries investigating potential strategies to address vascular integrity and thromboinflammation in hospitalized patients with COVID-19. “Early on in the pandemic we noticed a lot of clotting, both microscopically and macroscopically—often in places where we don’t usually see it,” says and an expert on the etiology of thrombotic disease. Dr. Berger was appointed a co-principal investigator of ACTIV-4A after developing a pilot study on the use of heparin for preventing thrombotic events among patients with COVID-19 in the NYU Langone Health system. The NIH adapted the protocol for that study as the basis for the larger trial. “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice.” International Collaboration Accelerates Results Another NYU Langone researcher, , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, was named study chair of ACTIV-4A. As a leader of complex international clinical trials such as OAT SHOCK , Dr. Hochman is known for her skills at developing and harmonizing protocols and data analysis plans, as well as fostering cooperation among researchers around the world. In addition to coordinating the work of over two dozen U.S. institutions, ACTIV-4A has collaborated with two multinational consortiums—Antithrombotic Therapy to Ameliorate Complications of COVID-19 (ATTACC, based in Canada), and Randomized, Embedded, Multifactorial Adaptive Platform Trial for Community-Acquired Pneumonia (REMAP-CAP, based in the United Kingdom). “During a pandemic, you need global collaboration,” Dr. Hochman explains. “By working with these partners, we’ve been able to get powerful datasets much more quickly than anyone could have done alone.” “We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active.” An Evolving Investigation In August 2021, the ACTIV-4A investigators and their global partners published initial findings in the New England Journal of Medicine— a pair of reports on prophylactic versus therapeutic heparin in patients moderately ill critically ill with COVID-19 Full-dose heparin, the studies showed, improved survival and other outcomes in the former group, but not the latter. The effects in critically ill patients tended toward harm. The following month, researchers led by Dr. Berger and , assistant professor of medicine and pathology, published a paper in Science Advances describing several pathways by which platelets amplify endotheliopathy in COVID-19. Although the study was not part of ACTIV-4A, its findings would influence the course of that trial. We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active ,” Dr. Berger explains. “We wanted to find out how that happens.” The team, including Dr. Hochman, identified two genes that are upregulated in the platelets of patients with COVID-19, leading to overproduction of proteins associated with increased clotting and vascular inflammation. The researchers also reported that medications known to block platelet activation via the P2Y12 receptor reduced inflammation in vessels related to COVID-19. And they showed that platelets from patients with COVID-19 alter endothelial cells largely via P-selectin, a cell adhesion molecule. These findings spurred new lines of inquiry in ACTIV-4A, beginning with a clinical trial of P2Y12 inhibitors combined with therapeutic heparin in 562 patients moderately ill with COVID-19. Directions for Further Research In November, at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, the ACTIV-4A investigators reported disappointing initial results: P2Y12 inhibitors failed to improve survival or disease severity in the moderately ill cohort. These results were recently published in Nonetheless, ACTIV-4A is continuing to test these drugs in critically ill patients. In addition, enrollment has begun for trials of a P-selectin inhibitor, crizanlizumab. Another new arm will test SGLT2 inhibitors, which have been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes in diabetes by promoting endothelial integrity. ACTIV-4A has already had an impact, Dr. Hochman emphasizes. Many medical centers have stopped using therapeutic-dose heparin in hospitalized patients critically ill with COVID-19. In December, the American Society of Hematology issued draft guidelines recommending therapeutic heparin for inpatients with moderate illness. And in January, the NIH also updated its heparin guidelines to reflect the trial’s findings.  “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice. I’m confident that we will continue to do so going forward,” Dr. Hochman says. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Am J Prev Cardiol . 2021 Dec; 8: 100282. An analysis published in the American Journal of Preventive Cardiology found women and people of racial and ethnic minority groups experienced a substantial worsening of their lipid profiles during the early stay-at-home orders brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Stay-at-home orders drastically altered dietary and exercise patterns for most people and may have even affected medication access and use, says senior author and preventive cardiologist To understand whether these public health measures affected cardiovascular risk, Dr. Heffron and colleagues compared nonHDL cholesterol levels in blood samples collected before and after the strict stay-at-home order in New York City. As a control for seasonality, they performed an identical comparison for the same time periods one year prior. Serial samples from more than 30,000 patients revealed a dramatic increase in nonHDL cholesterol levels (≥38 mg/dL), particularly among women and people from racial and ethnic minority groups. “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups.” “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups—exacerbating disparities in cardiovascular health and serving to highlight the tenuous position of particular populations,” the authors concluded. The results remained consistent even when the researchers restricted their analyses to people with unchanged lipid-lowering medication prescriptions across the observation periods. In total, more than half (55 percent) of the study population experienced increases in nonHDL-C levels during the stay-at-home order as compared to the same period in 2019. Complex Hernia Repair & Abdominal Wall Reconstruction Surgeons at NYU Langone’s Abdominal Core Health and Hernia Program are recognized leaders in the field of repair and abdominal wall reconstruction using the most advanced robotic surgical techniques. Our team specializes in repairing all types of hernia, including complex hernias and those that have recurred after a prior surgery. Learn more about our expertise in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction and the surgeons who perform these procedures. The abdominal wall is made up of the muscles and other connective tissue that wrap around your body like a wide band. It extends from the bottom of your breastbone, or sternum, to your pelvis. These vital muscles and tissue, which protect the organs in your abdomen by holding them in place, are essential to your overall stability, balance, and ability to lead an active life. The most common abdominal wall condition is a hernia, which occurs when fat, tissue, or part of an organ protrudes through a weakened area or hole in the muscles or connective tissue of the abdominal wall. Our team treats all types of hernias, including the following: umbilical hernias, which occur near the navel incisional hernias, which happen when part of an organ or tissue protrudes through an incision or scar from previous abdominal surgery inguinal and femoral hernias, which occur in the groin area NYU Langone surgeons care for people with hiatal and paraesophageal hernias—which occur when a portion of the stomach bulges through the diaphragm and into the chest cavity—at our In addition to repairing simple and complex hernias, we also treat the following abdominal wall conditions: diastasis recti, a separation of the abdominal muscles that can occur during pregnancy athletic pubalgia—sometimes incorrectly called athletic hernia—a weakening or tearing of muscles in the abdominal wall that results in groin pain benign or malignant tumors of the abdominal wall and muscles Our Focus on Abdominal Core Health We take a holistic approach to your treatment, with a personalized plan that focuses not only on your surgical care, but also on helping you regain and maximize strength in the muscles of your core. Our care begins with your initial visit and addresses every facet of your treatment—surgery and recovery, pain management and wound care—as well as physical therapy provided by our physical therapists. When appropriate, we consult and collaborate with experts in other medical and surgical specialties at NYU Langone, including bariatric and plastic surgery. Experts at the Abdominal Core Health Program are active in clinical trials that test new technologies for abdominal surgery and in research on ways to improve its outcomes. In addition, our program participates in the Abdominal Core Health Quality Collaborative national database, which tracks the outcomes of abdominal surgery at medical institutions around the country. Our skilled surgeons use advanced techniques to treat hernias and all other conditions affecting the abdominal wall. David K. Halpern Fareed Cheema Advanced Robotic & Foregut Surgeon to Lead General Surgery Dr. Flavio Malcher to Lead Abdominal Core Health Program Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care The recent COVID-19 pandemic required oncologists across the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system to adopt telehealth services. While this revealed benefits, there continue to be challenges, including access to devices as well as understanding how to use the technology. To address these barriers, NYU Langone Health’s has launched the Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Center. The effort is supported by a prestigious $5 million grant from the National Cancer Institute’s Telehealth Research Centers of Excellence (TRACE) initiative Cancer Moonshot initiative “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services,” says , an associate professor of urology and population health at NYU Langone. “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services.” As part of the new initiative, Dr. Makarov and co-director , plan to study how social factors such as race and ethnicity, poverty, and rural residence impact the delivery of telehealth for cancer care. Examining Telehealth’s True Impact Established barriers to delivering efficient healthcare include geographical restrictions as well as long wait times. But just as telehealth has helped to minimize these roadblocks, its implementation has brought to light new hurdles. Some veterans, especially in rural areas, may have access to telehealth technology but have unreliable internet or cellular service, while others may have access but won’t adopt telehealth due to personal or cultural factors. Dr. Makarov believes more research is needed to understand how to engage these groups successfully, and he anticipates that such research could help to inform future policies on the use of this technology in veteran populations. Working in collaboration with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), the THRIVE Center will focus on examining telehealth’s role in delivering cancer-related healthcare, providing support for diverse teams of researchers to conduct large-scale trials in real-world clinical settings. “The VHA is one of the largest integrated healthcare providers, delivering medical care to more than 9 million veterans in the United States, which makes it an ideal study setting,” Dr. Makarov says. Building Health Equity into Telehealth Services In addition to developing innovative ways to use telehealth in cancer care, the THRIVE center will focus on identifying and addressing telehealth-related disparities among underserved populations, including rural residents, racial and ethnic minorities, older adults, people with low socioeconomic status, and those with poor digital literacy. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Health systems like NYU Langone, with a mission to serve diverse communities, have a responsibility to research and establish best practices for patients, Dr. Makarov says. “We anticipate the lessons learned from this evaluation of the VA telehealth system for cancer care can be adopted and integrated into other health systems,” Dr. Makarov explains. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Urology, Urologic Oncology Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. He also serves as co-leader of the Epidemiology and Cancer Control Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy An expert on this promising nonsurgical technique discusses research into benefits and best practices. Nationally renowned as an expert on prostate cancer and radical prostatectomy, , is now convinced of the promise of focal ablation—an evolving nonsurgical approach to treating prostate cancers. Here, he discusses what spurred his interest in focal therapy and how the robust prospective registry at is helping to define best practices. Pinpointing Sites of Clinically Significant Cancer Physician Focus: What advancements have helped the ield of focal therapy evolve? Dr. Lepor: Accurate localization of the sites of clinically significant prostate cancers is key to successful focal ablation. The work that was done here at NYU Langone Health in imaging and targeted biopsies really set the stage for the field of focal therapy. Historically, when urologists nationwide would do a biopsy of the prostate, we randomly inserted 12 needles into the gland. Ultrasound was our imaging platform at the time, and it does not provide information on where we should be focusing to detect cancer. When advancements in imaging came along, NYU Langone was one of the first centers to do MRI and later MRI–ultrasound fusion guided biopsy for prostate cancer. Once we were confident in our ability to reliably identify clinically significant cancer, we were ready to investigate focal therapy. What early research convinced you that focal therapy is a promising treatment option for prostate cancer? In 2018, we published a study in showing that MRI was extremely accurate at identifying index tumors, or the tumors likely to grow and metastasize. Of 59 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy and who were also potential candidates for focal therapy, only a small proportion of low-volume cancers would have been missed if those patients had received focal therapy. For me, that was the first study that confirmed that if we can reliably destroy the index cancer, then it would be safe to follow the rest of the prostate for the development of significant disease. A Favorable Approach What patient groups are best suited for focal therapy and how many of your patients choose this treatment approach? We are treating patients with clinically localized, intermediate-risk prostate cancer who would also be candidates for whole gland treatment. If a patient has low-risk cancer, we’re likely not going to use focal therapy since these men are best managed with active surveillance. Maybe 30 percent of the patients referred to me with prostate cancer are candidates for focal therapy, and when I give them the option, two-thirds choose focal therapy and one-third choose radical prostatectomy. There are many reasons for this, including the fact that focal therapy is an outpatient procedure, it doesn’t require hormone therapy, and we’ve never had a patient report incontinence. While focal therapy can affect sexual function, it is much less than with a surgical procedure, even with a nerve-sparing surgical procedure. In addition, if the cancer recurs, we still have every option available to us—we can do radiation therapy, remove the prostate, or do another focal ablation. Establishing Best Practices At NYU Langone, urologists no longer recommend a six-month MRI or biopsy following focal ablation. What led to this decision to defer early follow-up? We already have a robust prospective database of roughly 400 patients that have undergone focal therapy at our center. Using that database, Dr. James S. Wysock and I recently published a study in Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases reporting that at six-month follow-up, when we aggressively biopsied for in-field disease, we detected residual cancer in only 2 percent of patients. In other words, we succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients. Therefore, at our high-volume center with our expertise and stringent patient selection, a six-month follow-up is not necessary. “We succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients.” We’re now assessing whether follow-up biopsy is necessary at two years, which to my knowledge, no series has ever assessed oncological outcomes from mandatory two-year biopsy. A Commitment to Follow-Up You’ve mentioned a need for thorough commitment from both the patient and the provider regarding follow-up after focal therapy. Can you elaborate? This is really important. In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up. With focal therapy, there is a real chance of leaving cancer behind or cancer recurring because the majority of the prostate is untreated. But if we find any residual disease early, then we have all those salvage options available—focal ablation, radiation, and surgery. If the patient doesn’t come back for five years, that may give too much of a lead time for that residual cancer to become a big problem. “In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up.” Of course, getting patients to come in for follow-up can be a challenge. We are trying to minimize this burden on patients by determining how long follow-up can be safely deferred, or identifying the subset of patients that can defer early follow-up. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Herbert Lepor, MD, and James S. Wysock, MD Given the limitations associated with radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy, partial gland cryoablation (PGCA) has gained an increased role in patients with low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer. For those patients who choose PGCA to minimize quality of life adverse events, it is essential to set realistic expectations for sexual function after treatment. recent study published in , urologic oncologists , examined sexual function following primary PGCA over a two-year period to help providers have more informed discussions with patients concerning erectile function. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” “Our study uniquely stratifies sexual function outcomes according to baseline erectile function and examines factors associated with reduced sexual function,” says Dr. Wysock. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” Evaluating Functional Outcomes In March 2017, the researchers initiated a prospective outcomes registry that captures both oncological and functional outcomes following PGCA. For the present study, they identified men who met the following eligibility criteria: a PIRADS 2-5 lesion concordant with unilateral GGG 1-3 disease, no gross extra-prostatic extension on multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), GGG >1 contralateral to the region of interest, or distal apical disease on mpMRI. In total, 106 patients met inclusion criteria and they completed the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) scale at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months. The ability to sustain erection (also known as “potency”) was defined as a score of 3 or greater on question 2 of the SHIM index, after which they measured median SHIM scores and the proportion of men reporting “potency” at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months, and compared erectile function at these respective timepoints. Erectile Function Improves Over Time The results showed a statistically significant decrease in SHIM scores between baseline and 6 months, and baseline and 24 months, for the entire cohort and for all subgroups stratified according to baseline erectile dysfunction (ED) severity. However, significant improvements in median SHIM scores were observed between 6 and 24 months for men with no ED or mild ED at baseline. In addition, for men with no ED at baseline, 93 percent regained potency at 24 months. “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy,” says Dr. Lepor. “Many of my patients choose to undergo PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to superior quality of life outcomes.” Questions Still Remain In order to further optimize sexual function outcomes, initiating PDE5 inhibitors immediately after PGCA may be a reasonable strategy, adds Dr. Wysock. According to Dr. Lepor, all treatments for prostate cancer must balance oncological control and functional outcomes, noting that the three-year oncological outcomes are currently under review, with early observations suggesting that these encouraging sexual function outcomes are achieved equally with strong oncological outcomes. In future studies, the researchers will continue to evaluate whether PGCA preserves quality of life while maintaining long-term disease control. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 A study of New York City mothers enrolled in the NYU Children’s Health and Environment Study (NYU CHES) suggested the early months of the pandemic resulted in fewer women planning or attempting to become pregnant, which may have long-term effects on fertility rates. In the cross-sectional study of 1,179 mothers, published in JAMA Network Open , nearly half of women who had been trying to become pregnant reported that they had ceased attempting to conceive in the first few months of the city’s initial COVID-19 wave in April 2020. More than a third who had been contemplating trying for pregnancy pre-COVID reported they were no longer considering it. Further, fewer than half those women who ceased trying to become pregnant thought they would resume trying after the pandemic. Though early evidence drawn from vital statistics data has demonstrated a steeper decline in U.S. births since the onset of the pandemic, this is the first epidemiologic study of U.S. women in an area heavily impacted by COVID-19. Impact on Decision-making The pandemic appears to have exacerbated existing social and financial pressures that were already negatively impacting pregnancy intention and, consequently, the U.S. birth rate. The study’s findings indicated that women with higher stress levels, lower education, and greater financial insecurity were more likely to cease trying or planning to become pregnant. “Women’s decision-making when it comes to building families tends to track closely with financial and social dynamics,” notes Linda G. Kahn, PhD, MPH , assistant professor in pediatrics and population health. “The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed underlying weaknesses in our social support system for women and families, and appears to be accelerating a decline in the U.S. birth rate that began with the 2008 recession.” More Research Opportunities One of NYU Langone’s largest National Institutes of Health-funded studies, the NYU CHES database contains bio samples and exposure data from more than 3,500 New York City women enrolled during the first trimester of pregnancy. The cohort represents a diverse cross-section of race, ethnicity, education, and incomes. Data gathered are used to examine environmental impacts on pregnant women and their children. “It would be interesting to investigate whether similar declines in pregnancy intention followed outbreaks in other ‘hotspots’ across the nation, as well as whether the availability of vaccination has moderated this response.” According to Dr. Kahn and co-author , clinical associate professor in obstetrics and gynecology and site director for the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn, geographic information in the database affords unique research opportunities. Considerations for Pregnancy Delay In addition to the broader economic and social ramifications of a declining birth rate in conjunction with an aging population, postponing pregnancy has consequences on the individual level. Older women may require costly fertility treatments when they are ready to conceive, an option that is out of reach for many and one that is not without risks to women and infants, the researchers say. “Delaying childbearing creates several downstream clinical risks for women, including pregnancy complications such as hypertension and cardiovascular conditions associated with advanced maternal age and fertility treatments,” notes Dr. Mehta-Lee. “Assisted reproduction is not always the panacea patients assume it is, so we need to keep these factors in mind when counseling patients about their ability to have children later in life.” Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Departments of Pediatrics and Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her research interests include the role of preconception and prenatal environmental exposures in pregnancy and postpartum maternal health; predictors of male and female reproductive development and fertility; and health outcomes of assisted reproduction in both women and children. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Dr. Herbert Lepor spotlights one of the 298 cases included in the landmark prospective study. Over the past decade, we have utilized laser, radio frequency, electroporation, high-intensity focused energy, and cryo-therapy at NYU Langone Health to ablate focal disease. Currently, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies (FTs) at NYU Langone are performed using cryo-therapy because of its superior oncological outcomes. Men undergoing FTs are at risk for developing in-field, out-of-field, or metastatic disease recurrences. In-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to completely eradicate the index focal lesion. Out-of-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to detect co-existing clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa), or the development of csPCa in the untreated gland. Metastatic disease develops due to pre-existing metastasis or the development of metastasis arising from local recurrences. In 2017, with , I initiated an IRB-approved prospective study to rigorously assess functional and oncological outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PPGCA). Our published experience to date has demonstrated the following: the ability to reliably ablate the index lesion a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries an improvement in lower urinary symptoms less adverse impact on sexual function than radical prostatectomy (RP) We are presenting our five-year oncological outcomes on May 5, 2024, at the American Urological Association (AUA) Annual Meeting. The following case features one of the 298 subjects who met the eligibility criteria for this study. [See the results from the five-year study here The patient, in his mid-50s at the time of initial presentation in 2018, had a progressively rising PSA level—to 4.4 ng/ml—and a benign digital rectal exam (DRE). He underwent a multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), which showed a 10×5-mm Prostate Imaging–Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) 4 region of interest in the left medial apical peripheral zone. An MRI targeted, 12 cores systematic biopsy (SB) demonstrated multiple Gleason Grade Group (GGG) 1 and 2 cancers in the targeted and left SB. We discussed RP, radiation therapy (RT), and FT for managing his focal intermediate risk prostate cancer. Preserving erectile and urinary function and avoiding androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) were the primary factors leading to a shared decision to proceed with PPGCA. The PPGCA was performed shortly thereafter under general anesthesia using four cryo-probes. The patient was discharged by early afternoon the same day, and the Foley catheter was removed three days post-operatively. The patient returned to unrestricted activities immediately after catheter removal. He never experienced any level of incontinence. The patient was one of our early PPGCA cases, and the surveillance protocol was the following: • PSA every six months • DRE annually • mpMRI at six months, then at two years, three years six months, and five years; a protocol biopsy, which included sampling the prior MRI target, and any new in- or out-of-field regions of interest suspicious for prostate cancer, and 12 SB. This table summarizes the functional and oncological outcomes at six months and five years post-treatment. Outcome Six-Month Results Five-Year Results IPSS SHIM 23 Semen Volume Markedly reduced Climacturia PSA (ng/mL) 0.81 1.2 mpMRI Left PIRADS 4 lesion no longer identified, replaced by an ablation cavity. PIRADS 1 atrophy of the left lobe, no evidence of in- or out-of-field disease. Biopsy Results Ablation cavity and 6 left SB showed only treatment effect. Benign The patient’s future surveillance protocol will be the following: • MRI at seven years six months, and 10 years • protocol biopsy at 10 years • for-cause biopsy as clinically indicated I have offered and performed FTs since 2012 based on the following observations and assumptions • the aggressiveness of prostate cancer, typically defined by an index tumor • MRI identifies the index cancer in candidates for PGA • candidates for FTs rarely have significant prostate cancer outside the ablation zone • majority of men undergoing RP do not have prostate cancer or metastasis-free survival compared to watchful waiting (WW) • low-risk and select cases of intermediate-low-risk disease candidates for active surveillance (AS) • PGA reliably destroys in-field prostate cancer • preserving quality of life is a high priority for men with clinically localized cancer There are many energy sources commercially available to ablate prostate cancer. Cryo-therapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes. A limitation of high-intensity-focused ultrasound (HIFU) is its inability to treat anterior tumors or glands with significant calcifications. We believe the inferior oncological outcomes of HIFU are attributed to failure to achieve confluence of energy in the ablative field, which may be rectified by delivering a second treatment as we do with cryoablation. The advantage of HIFU over cryoablation is the ability to develop a more precise treatment plan. If double treatment overcomes the inferior in-field recurrence rates, HIFU may become our preferred energy source for small peripheral zone lesions that abut the neurovascular bundle, or those immediately underneath the prostatic urethra. Our five-year oncological outcomes emphasize the need for active surveillance post-FT. Many of the csPCa recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, which are amenable to AS based on the PROTECT trial. A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field csPCa recurrences requiring intervention. The majority of cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage RT. While the literature indicates salvage RP is safely performed, we believe it is slightly more technically challenging due to the peri-prostatic fibrosis. Unlike salvage RP after radiation therapy, surgical planes are often readily achieved contralateral to the ablation, which facilitates mobilization of the prostate. In our experience, over two-thirds of men with “focal” intermediate-risk disease will elect FTs over whole-gland treatments. Our patients make an informed decision based on my published functional and oncological outcomes for both RP and FT. The factors influencing the decision to elect FT are: • availability as an outpatient procedure, with expedited return to work and activities • avoidance of ADT • no cases of incontinence or rectal injury • a less significant impact on sexual function We now counsel patients with intermediate-risk disease that at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole-gland interventions, while the other nine percent undergo salvage treatments without greater risk than primary intervention. In 2012, I was confident that FTs would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority. After a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following FTs, and specifically cryo-therapy, we feel this option should be presented to men with focal intermediate risk disease. 1.           Wysock et al. (2021). Early oncological control following partial gland cryo-ablation: a prospective experience specifying reflex MRI-guided biopsy of the ablation zone. 2.           Wysock et al. (2023). Biopsy assessment of oncologic control 3 years following primary partial gland cryoablation: a prospective cohort study of men with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. The Journal of Urology 3.           Thakker et al. (2022). Early functional outcomes following partial gland cryo-ablation. 4.           Wysock et al. (2022). Two-year functional outcomes stratified according to baseline erectile function following partial gland cryo-ablation. 5.           Kenigsberg et al. (2018). The use of magnetic resonance imaging to predict oncological control among candidates for focal ablation of prostate cancer. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment Jennifer Frontera, MD, and Andrea Troxel, ScD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , a neurocritical care expert, and biostatistician , are leading NYU Langone Health’s participation in the NIH-funded COVID-19 NeuroDatabank and NeuroBiobank initiatives to centralize and expand availability of post-COVID neurological data. The initiatives offer access to aggregate outcomes information that could help researchers reveal the pathological mechanisms behind post-COVID neurological symptoms that impact some patients long after infection. The Heterogeneous Symptoms of “Long COVID” By now, we know that COVID-19 and post-COVID syndrome—“long COVID”—are frequently accompanied by neurological symptoms. What have we learned so far about the connection? Dr. Frontera: We’ve learned a lot in two years, but we’re still working to fully tease out the constellation of neurological sequelae in severe COVID and post-COVID syndrome, defined by persistent symptoms at least four weeks following infection onset. These post-acute symptoms are notably heterogenous, spanning everything from fatigue, depression, and , to brain fog, headache and dizziness. We’ve even found biomarkers in a subset of patients with COVID that we typically see in patients with Alzheimer’s disease, possibly due to brain injury triggered by inflammation. As we continue to gather patient data over time, we’re now working to better understand the specific mechanisms that would better define a post-COVID neurological syndrome. Symptoms Linger After Severe Disease What have you observed from that data in terms of improvement of COVID-related neurological symptoms over time? Dr. Troxel: In a recent study, we tracked outcomes data from patients at six and 12 months into their recovery. Notably, at 12 months post-hospitalization, we found that cognitive symptoms persisted in half of patients and nearly 90 percent had abnormal functional, cognitive, or Neuro-QoL metrics for anxiety, depression, fatigue, and sleep. We did find an improvement in patients’ cognitive and anxiety scores between the six and 12-month milestones. It’s not clear whether these results are generalizable to those patients who have more mild or moderate COVID cases. We’ve also seen that the omicron variant appears less likely to result in persistent neurological symptoms, specifically hypoxia and sepsis. Those are the types of findings we’re still working to tease out. Gathering Data to Better Target Treatment How does the NIH COVID-19 NeuroDatabank project fit in with those efforts? The databank was launched to develop a pool of COVID-related neurological data that is more granular than what we could glean from electronic health records alone. NYU Langone is one of 10 national sites contributing data, and as the one-time epicenter of the pandemic in New York City, we are an anchor of the database with the largest data component. The goal is to expand our understanding of neurologic phenotypes, risk factors, socioeconomic factors, and therapeutic responses among patients with COVID-related neurological syndromes. Data in the NeuroDatabank will also be compared with a NeuroBiobank created with clinically collected samples from these patients to align clinical findings with biological markers. Through another NIH-funded project, the RECOVER initiative , we’re also studying autopsy data to better understand the mechanisms of neurological inflammation in acute COVID—for example, whether it is caused by a breakdown of the blood–brain barrier. How do you hope this data will help inform treatment strategies going forward in patients with COVID-associated neurological sequelae? “The rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms.” We found that when physicians took a holistic approach to patient management, including addressing neuropsychiatric symptoms of anxiety, depression, and fatigue along with headache and cognitive symptoms, that most patients reported substantial improvement in symptoms. As we try to fine-tune therapies and develop cognitive rehabilitation programs, the rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms. As studies are developed from the databases, we are hopeful that emerging insights will help us better target interventions for these patients. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease Research has established that non-neuronal cells of the central nervous system , notably glia, are important contributors to Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathogenesis , which includes changes in normal physiological functions, including synapse maintenance, metabolism, structural support, and blood-brain barrier integrity. Reactive astrocytes induced by immune cell dysfunction and inflammatory responses to pathogenic proteins and dying cells have been implicated in several of these processes. In addition, oligodendrocytes are also of interest in AD pathogenesis given their role in myelin production and axon support required for optimum brain function. It is not yet clear, however, how subtypes of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes are altered in AD. Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology , leads a research team that is using advanced methods including single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics to assess putative functional heterogeneity in glia during AD. A Novel snRNA-seq Dataset In a recent study published in Neuron, the team presented a snRNA-seq dataset characterizing astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from human postmortem prefrontal cortex samples from AD and age-matched non-symptomatic patients, with all individuals genotyped and controlled for apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype Ɛ2/3. APOE is a major risk factor for AD, Dr. Liddelow explains. “Patients with APOE Ɛ4 are up to 17 times more likely to develop the disease.” “We chose this patient population as it is underrepresented in other sequencing studies and individuals present with AD dementia onset at later ages, making age matching between non-symptomatic and AD patients more similar.” Dr. Liddelow and his team identified global and subtype-specific transcriptomic changes between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from patients with AD versus those from non-symptomatic patients. In addition, they localized heterogeneous astrocyte subtypes to specific cortical regions in the healthy and inflamed brain using published human and mouse spatial transcriptomics datasets. “We identified unique and previously undefinable astrocyte subpopulations in all of our datasets,” Dr. Liddelow says. A Resource for Further Research These data, which are freely available to all researchers on an online portal, were also integrated with published AD snRNA-seq datasets. Dr. Liddelow hopes these combined datasets will provide a paired sequencing and pathology assessment resource that can be used to further explore the breadth of astrocyte and oligodendrocyte transcriptomic changes in AD. However, while integration with published datasets highlight novel and putative functional populations of glia in AD, future studies will be required to evaluate these subpopulations and their potential for therapeutic modulation. “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions.” “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions in AD,” says Dr. Liddelow. Neuroscience, Ophthalmology Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Neuroscience Institute and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. His research centers around the role of astrocytes in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy In a study of newborns of mothers vaccinated against COVID-19 during pregnancy, 36 cord blood samples were tested, and 100 percent showed transplacental antibody transfer and 34 samples had a titer of more than 250 units/mL. ADAPTED FROM: Am J Obstet Gynecol MFM . 2021 Nov; 3(6): 100481. No increase in risk was identified for mother or baby during pregnancy or birth among those who were vaccinated, consistent with other reports . The findings offer possible encouragement for increased vaccine adoption among pregnant mothers seeking to protect themselves and their babies during the first months of life. A study published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology – Maternal-Fetal Medicine found protective antibodies in the cord blood of all 36 participant neonates whose mothers received either the Pfizer–BioNTech or Moderna vaccine during pregnancy. Study design distinguished between antibodies associated with natural infection or vaccination. The highest levels were observed among newborns whose mothers were vaccinated during the second half of pregnancy. “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies.” “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies,” says , Silverman Professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and a principal investigator. “If babies are born with antibodies, it could protect them early-on, when they are most vulnerable.” Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement Compared with traditional arthroscopic procedures, NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) confers multiple benefits, including no general anesthetic, 2 incisions of 2 millimeters allow for immediate mobilization, superior median time-to-return for work and sports activities, decrease in PROMIS pain intensity T scores, high foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS), low complication rate, and high patient satisfaction. Source: Arthroscopy NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) recovery outcomes include a median time-to-return to work of 1.98 days (for all patients who previously worked) and to sports activities of 3.9 weeks (for 26 of 27 patients who had previously played sports). Foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS) measurements at final follow-up were 79.4 ± 11.9 for symptoms, 82.9 ± 15.3 for pain, 83.5 ± 15.4 for daily activities, 71.9 ± 18.5 for sports activities, and 64.3 ± 21.4 for quality of life. Source: Patients with anterior ankle impingement often require surgical resection of bony spurs and soft tissue impingement, traditionally achieved via open or arthroscopic anterior ankle debridement in an OR. Building on older designs of an alternative known as in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health have pioneered a minimally invasive nano-arthroscopy system (the NanoScope™ system). In a new study, , Dr. Kennedy’s team and collaborators in the Netherlands evaluated the clinical outcomes and patient experience of 31 athletic individuals who underwent the IONA procedure for an anterior ankle impingement. They found that all patients who had worked prior to the IONA procedure returned to work, and 26 of 27 patients returned to their sports activities. These results are far superior to those from open or traditional arthroscopic procedures. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist.” Overall, the IONA alternative resulted in significant pain reduction, a low complication rate, and excellent patient-reported outcomes. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist—you’ll go in for a small procedure under local anesthetic and expect to leave on the same day,” Dr. Kennedy says. Dr. Kennedy has received support from the Ohnell Family Foundation and Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Levitt; he is also a consultant for Arteriocyte Industries (Isto Biologics) and Arthrex®, which produces the NanoScope™. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Women who undergo a cesarean delivery with the endometrium-free uterine closure technique (EFCT) to close the incision are more likely to heal with small to no residual uterine scar defect than those with a routine closure, according to a new study in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine “In pregnant women, uterine scarring can lead to abnormal implantation or attachment of the placenta, known as placenta accreta, and cause life-threatening conditions and severe blood loss,” says Clarel Antoine, MD , lead author and a pioneer in the EFCT for cesarean births. “In non-pregnant women, uterine scars can cause other issues including irregular vaginal bleeding, severe menstrual cramps, painful intercourse, and infertility.” The study compared the prevalence and size of post-cesarean scar defects following the EFCT versus a routine closure technique using saline infusion sonohysterography. The researchers evaluated 45 women with a history of at least one cesarean delivery. They found uterine scar development was six times higher with a routine uterine closure compared to births with EFCT. Building Upon Previous Findings In 2019, Dr. Antoine and his colleagues published a study in the Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine showing that none of 727 patients treated with the EFCT during the surgical closure of the uterus experienced placenta accreta in their cesarean scars. The sample included patients with up to nine consecutive cesarean deliveries and outcomes were positive regardless of the number of repeat cesarean deliveries a person had. “This showed the exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries,” says Dr. Antoine. “The exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries.” Looking Ahead The latest study further confirms that the EFCT enables restoration of normal anatomy and physiology after cesarean delivery. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed, which can reduce severe maternal complications and save the lives of mothers nationally,” says senior author Ilan E. Timor, MD , an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed.” “Over the years, I’ve examined uterine scars using saline infusion sonohysterography. It’s interesting to see with this study that the patients with an EFCT closure had significantly smaller or even no residual scarring at the site of the incision.” Currently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists does not endorse any particular method of closing the uterus after a cesarean delivery. Dr. Antoine and his team hopes this study could inform a rethinking of the current recommendations. Clarel Antoine, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology. His research focuses on cesarean delivery, including the development of new surgical techniques to better maternal outcomes. Dr. Antoine is leading the first long-term study utilizing advanced imaging to identify intrinsic surgical details that may help characterize post-cesarean long-term complications. Ilan E. Timor, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology. He is an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, and Un Jung Kang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary was launched in 2021 with a unique vision to foster new collaborative models not just within neurology, but across all discliplines conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders.The center’s co-directors are Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology, and Un Jung Kang , the Founders Professor of Neurology and director of translational research at the Marlene Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders . Here, they discuss how their different footholds in basic research and clinical practice, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are driving the center’s successful growth. Recasting the Mold for Neurologic Research What is your long-term vision for the center and how is it a different way of thinking? Dr. Liddelow: Our vision is to integrate all relevant disciplines and departments across NYU Langone to further enable collaborative research teams to tackle ever more complex disease-focused questions. With over 250 research laboratories on campus, the goal of achieving harmonized, cross-discipline collaboration is a large undertaking. Many of these diseases represent cohorts of patients with no current effective therapies, or with rare diseases that may affect only a handful of patients across the globe. As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential. It is for this reason that our starting focus is on glia and the immune system—uncovering the common responses or dysfunctions that occur across seemingly disconnected diseases. Dr. Kang: An important aspect of our center is how it integrates basic science with clinical knowledge. In particular, we want to understand how the brain interacts with the body and how neurons interact with non-neuronal cells. “As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential.” How do you define interdisciplinary neurology, then? Classically, the field of neurology evolved from describing manifestations of abnormal brain function to understanding underlying neuropathology. Today, our subspecialities are still divided along phenomenological boundaries. Now we know that many seemingly disparate neurological disorders may share a common molecular etiology.  For example, in addition to being a movement disorders or a sleep disorders specialist focused on understanding symptoms, we need to understand abnormalities in alpha-synuclein, a presynaptic neuronal protein that is linked to both problems and develop therapies that can treat both. A New Research Platform What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through the center? The center’s work will focus initially on four main research projects , one of which is a project I’m leading on the role of astrocyte-derived toxic lipids in neurodegenerative disease . We recently identified a reactive astrocyte subtype that forms after acute injuries and in chronic neurodegeneration in both rodents and humans. We show these astrocytes to be potently neurotoxic and that saturated lipids, in particular long-chain free fatty acids, drive this neurotoxicity and are investigating how a lack of neurotoxic lipids can preserve neuron health in models of chronic neurodegeneration. For that project, our long-term goal is to define pathways in neurotoxic reactive astrocytes and susceptible neuron populations that will provide a blueprint to develop novel therapeutic strategies for a range of neurodegenerative diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and glaucoma. Other projects encompass the measurement of intra-patient variability using technological approaches, with a focus on multiple sclerosis, and and the integration of changes in the microbiome and brain function in patients with epilepsy. A project spearheaded by Dr. Kang’s research group is focused on changes in glia during multiple system atrophy —a rare neurodegenerative disorder that affects autonomic functions. The project in my laboratory attempts to understand how abnormal oligodendrocytes produce neuronal degeneration in multiple system atrophy by studying molecular changes of frozen postmortem human brain at the single-cell level. We examine alpha-synuclein abnormalities as a driving factor of neurodegeneration in various related diseases.  As Dr. Liddelow previously described, an epilepsy expert is building a framework for how the gut microbiome, peripheral immune system, and the central nervous system interact before and after seizure. We hypothesize that such mechanisms are also likely to exist in other neurological disorders.  In another main project, a multiple sclerosis researcher is examining subtle physiological changes in prodromal stages of multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease. Since future disease modifying therapies will be most effective in early prodomal stages, developing early detection and prediction methods is critical. We are also hosting a request for applications for pilot grants open to all research faculty at NYU Langone to encourage cross-disciplinary projects from a team of clinical and basic researchers, with an emphasis on early career researchers. Anticipating a Ripple Effect Looking ahead, what other opportunities or potential impacts do you envision for the center’s work? Improving communication between internal research groups is a key opportunity for the center. Researchers may be working on the same problem, but are unaware due to a lack of time or knowledge of exciting discoveries. The center will continue to develop as a platform for increasing communication between researchers. In addition, we hope the center will foster data democratization beyond NYU Langone. We plan to make research data available more broadly through publicaly accessible databases. We are also looking at new means of disseminating research, such as leveraging social media. We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians. At the heart of improving education for both basic science and clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different disciplines. Having PhD students shadow a neurologist and clinical fellows spend time in a research lab can only help foster more collaboration. “We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians.” Un Jung Kang, MD Un Jung Kang, MD, is the Founders Professor of Neurology, a professor of neuroscience and physiology, director of translational research at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition Dr. Seth Cohen discusses how he diagnosed the disease in a patient with penile pain and a cord-like structure. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions All 36 men (38 ROIs) enrolled to the study with PI-RADS 4/5 ROI and no clinically significant prostate cancer (csPA) on initial biopsy underwent repeat MRI, following which 14 ROIs were downgraded while 24 ROIs remained suspicious. Of the 20 ROIs that underwent repeat biopsy, 30% were benign, 30% were Gleason grade group (GGG) 1, and 40% were GGG ≥ 2. ADAPTED FROM: Can Urol Assoc J . 2022;16(12):418-422. Men with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI but no evidence of clinically significant prostate cancer defined as any Gleason pattern 4 disease following an initial biopsy should undergo early repeat MRI, and potentially repeat biopsy. That is the conclusion from a recent prospective study from investigators at NYU Langone Health, which reports that repeat biopsy has a clinically significant cancer detection rate of 40 percent. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Canadian Urological Association Journal , the study evaluated 36 men with at least one PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI and no clinically significant cancer on prior MRI fusion target biopsy plus systemic biopsy. All patients underwent repeat MRI, which led to 14 ROIs being downgraded to PI-RADS 1 or 2. A total of 20 ROIs remained suspicious following repeat MRI and were subjected to repeat targeted and systematic biopsy, with eight ultimately found to harbor clinically significant cancer. All repeat biopsies were completed within one year of the initial biopsy, suggesting that the detection of prostate cancer can be attributed to sampling error rather than disease progression. The investigators also report that a high baseline level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) may serve as a predictor of finding cancer on repeat biopsy. “Our study supports a recommendation for early repeat biopsy for patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 exhibiting no clinically significant cancer on initial biopsy who have persistently suspicious PI-RADS greater than 2 ROI,” says urologic oncologist , senior author of the study. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer By detailing the essential roles of metabolic enzymes in bladder cancer, researchers at NYU Langone Health and have identified novel therapeutic strategies that may help in overcoming cisplatin resistance. The innovative approaches take aim at two glycolytic enzymes—enolase-1 and PKM2—shown to promote tumor growth by enhancing the functions of oncogenes. “In almost every bladder tumor type, we find both of these enzymes are over-expressed,” says Xue-Ru Wu, MD , principal investigator of the research team and the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation. Preliminary data also indicate both enzymes are induced by cisplatin, suggesting a role in acquired resistance. “If we take cells grown in culture, expose them to increasing concentrations of cisplatin, and then look at these enzymes, they’re markedly induced,” says Dr. Wu. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles. Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Efforts are now underway to identify and test inhibitors that can be used in combination with cisplatin and other chemotherapies. Metabolism and Malignancy Reprogrammed metabolism is a hallmark of cancer . While healthy cells rely heavily on oxidative phosphorylation, cancer cells commonly switch to aerobic glycolysis to fuel their uncontrolled growth. Yet, “bladder cancer metabolism is an area that people have paid relatively little attention to,” says Dr. Wu. In studying the process, his team discovered that some glycolytic enzymes not only prop up the proliferative metabolism of bladder cancer cells but also moonlight as oncogenes by tempering the normal function of tumor suppressors. This was demonstrated in a 2021 report from his group in , which revealed that enolase-1, a main glycolytic enzyme, functionally disables CDK inhibitors 4 and 6, leaving cell cycle progression unchecked. A subsequent study from the group in reported that PKM2, another key glycolytic enzyme, enhances angiogenesis by augmenting the angiogenic factor STAT3. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles,” says Dr. Wu. “Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Overcoming Cisplatin Resistance The next step is to identify inhibitors of the enzymes, which Dr. Wu and colleagues are pursuing by repurposing existing drugs and by screening for new agents. Pairing these inhibitors with cisplatin-based chemotherapies may serve to address resistance and improve treatment efficacy, all while minimizing treatment-associated toxicities. According to Dr. Wu, similar ideas are being tested in other cancer types, but little focus has been placed on bladder cancer. “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive. It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive,” says Dr. Wu. While it’s common to address resistance by increasing the dosage of the chemotherapy being used or by pairing it with a second chemotherapy, he stresses this usually comes with increased toxicity. “It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” NIH and VA Support Funding for the work comes from a multimillion-dollar NIH Program Project (P01) grant supporting innovative bladder cancer research in the laboratories of Dr. Wu and colleagues Diane M. Simeone, MD, and Moon-Shong Tang, PhD . Initially awarded in 2013, the grant is in its second funding cycle. “The key focus of this grant is to look at how the different bladder cancer subtypes arise and progress to inform biomarkers and therapeutics,” says Dr. Wu. Dr. Wu’s research has also been funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service. “In 2023, it’s estimated that 82,000 new cases of bladder cancer will be diagnosed,” he adds. “It’s a lifelong disease, it’s highly recurrent, and it’s extremely under-studied. While we have immunotherapy, only about 25 percent of patients respond. For the remaining 75 percent of patients with muscle-invasive disease that doesn’t respond, we need to treat them differently.” Urology, Cancer Xue-Ru Wu, MD, is the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation and a professor of pathology. His research focuses on the molecular pathogenesis of bladder disease. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies Perlmutter Cancer Center director and co-creator of the HapImmune platform discusses the technology’s potential. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk In a phase 2 trial, pairing an mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab improved relapse-free survival in advanced melanoma. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Patient’s decision to forego radical cystectomy exemplifies opportunity to expand TMT as a treatment option. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy Research test developed at Perlmutter Cancer Center pinpoints changes in a newly identified autoantibody panel. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Dr. Andrew S. Feigin and NYU Langone colleague Dr. Un Jung Kang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone Health houses a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at caring for people with Parkinson’s disease (PD) and other movement disorders. Additionally, the institute maintains a unique scientific and clinical collaboration with the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Italy and other centers in the Fresco Parkinson’s Network in Europe.From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with Andrew S. Feigin, MD , executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, to discuss the institute’s work, key issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment, and the value of international collaboration From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with As executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, could you elaborate on your role, the work of the institute here and its connections to the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Florence? Dr. Feigin : I like to describe the work we do in the Fresco Institute as addressing three important areas of endeavor. The first is that we seek to provide the best multidisciplinary clinical care for patients with Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. We also focus on research to improve the care that we can deliver in the future. Ultimately, the goal of our research, in both clinical and basic science, is to find better therapies that can help people with these disorders. The third area we focus on is education and training. We’re involved in training medical students, residents, and fellows, so we’re preparing future leaders for providing the best care and doing research for the coming generations. The centers in Italy and Europe provide the same, and our training is enhanced by our interactions with these centers. Key Issues in Movement Disorders What current issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment is the institute focused on addressing? : One critical area is the genetic contribution to the causes of Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. We work on identifying novel genetic contributors to these diseases and how we might utilize these genetic markers to better understand their etiology and get clues to better treatments for those carrying these mutations. Many of us here at NYU Langone and at the other centers are working on identifying better ways of diagnosing Parkinson’s disease and following its progression through imaging and other kinds of biomarkers. There’s also a big movement to predict who is at risk for Parkinson’s, so that if there are disease-modifying therapies in the future we can potentially get these therapies even earlier to those who need them. Benefits of International Collaboration Why is the type of international collaboration fostered through the Fresco Institute essential to advancing research and clinical care for these diseases? r. Feigin : The world has become a smaller place in the last 10 to 20 years, to a large degree because of technology. We want to be able to tap the best minds and the best work that’s being done everywhere. NYU Langone has an amazingly deep tradition and well of expertise that’s relevant to neurodegenerative diseases. However, my work with the institute has expanded my horizons and permitted me to interact with people that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with different perspectives and different areas of research in Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Technology is driving more international collaboration, especially in the response to COVID-19. However, there are still many factors that might complicate partnering across borders. Where do you see the horizons for this type of work going forward? : I’m currently the principal investigator of a large multicenter international clinical trial called PROOF-HD . That trial has 30 sites in Europe and 30 in North America, with different regulatory agencies in basically every country in Europe as well as the FDA in the United States. So yes, there are certainly challenges to doing this type of major international study. However, these challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials. I believe that these types of international collaborations will continue to expand. “These challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials.” The Role of Plasticity in PD Looking ahead to the Fresco International conference in June, the concept of synaptic plasticity and its relationship to PD is a central theme. Why is this concept and the research surrounding it so essential? : Over the past decades, we have begun to gain better understanding of how the adult human brain is able to adjust and modify itself to improve function. Through making new connections and paring back unused connections the brain can remodel functional connections to deal with insults like disease. There’s been an explosion of therapies that seek to promote this kind of plasticity to improve function in people with Parkinson’s disease—for example, exercise programs and art programs Because there’s neuroscientific evidence for why these therapies can be helpful to people, plasticity seems to be a key area of potential therapeutic benefit for patients with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. I think it’s very relevant to have a symposium on this topic to talk about how the brain adjusts to challenges and makes changes, and how we can promote that to benefit our patients. Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Andrew S. Feigin, MD, is the executive director of the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders and the associate chair for clinical research in the Department of Neurology. He specializes in treating patients with Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and related disorders that affect the basal ganglia. Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA , specializes in caring for adults and children undergoing autologous and allogeneic transplant. The program incorporates a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at providing high-quality care to every patient, regardless of ethnic background or age. met with the program’s executive director, , to discuss recent advances in the field, as well as ongoing initiatives within the program to make blood and marrow transplant available to even more patients. Benefits of Outpatient Transplants We now have the ability to perform transplants on an outpatient basis, with clinical outcomes equivalent to traditional inpatient approaches. What makes outpatient transplants unique? Dr. Al-Homsi: Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients. It provides patients with more flexibility, allowing them to return to the comfort of their home after receiving treatment during the day. “Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients.” We are fortunate to have a state-of-the-art outpatient center staffed by highly specialized professionals including physicians, nurse practitioners, and social workers. All transplant services, including the collection of stem cells, infusion, and the stem cell processing laboratory are housed within the outpatient center. We have come a long way since the days when patients were admitted to an isolated inpatient unit to receive their transplant. Nevertheless, each patient needs to be extensively evaluated and may not be a good candidate for outpatient care, depending on the circumstances. Age Is No Barrier to Success There has been great progress in expanding access to bone marrow transplants to older adults. What collective advancements have supported this shift? In recent years, transplant has been increasingly used for patients older than 60. There are several reasons for this, including optimized means of determining which older adults will benefit from treatment, the availability of reduced-intensity conditioning regimens, and better supportive care. Taken together, these innovations have expanded the pool of eligible patients well into their 70s. In other words, advanced age does not automatically exclude a patient from receiving a bone marrow transplant, autologous or allogeneic, even in the outpatient setting. A successful transplant for an older adult means preserving their functional independence, improving quality of life, and of course, prolonging survival. Haploidentical Grafts: The Next Frontier Haploidentical transplants have expanded the pool of available donors. What are the benefits of this approach? Many patients who need a transplant cannot find a suitable fully matched donor. The development of half-matched or haploidentical transplant has been a major step forward in extending transplant as an option for patients from certain ethnic and minority groups, who are underrepresented in the donor registries and may not be able to find a fully matched donor. “In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor.” Although haploidentical transplant may be the only option for patients from certain ethnic minorities, recent studies have suggested that the incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) can be higher in patients who received a haploidentical transplant versus fully matched donors. As this is a disparity issue, we have been very active in conducting research to decrease the incidence of GvHD in the setting of haploidentical transplant. , we reported encouraging results using an innovative approach to prevent GvHD in patients undergoing a haploidentical transplant. In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor. A Vision for Continued Success Looking ahead, what is your vision for the future of the program? What advancements are on the horizon? Let me start by pointing to the remarkable progress that has been achieved in the past five years. As a comprehensive program accredited by the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy , we now perform a large number of transplants both in the outpatient and inpatient setting, and we maintain outstanding outcomes, which is a testament to our commitment to providing high-quality patient care. “As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past.” As researchers, we continue to push forward with novel interventions, determined to make GvHD a complication of the past. We will also continue to expand our transplant services for patients affected by non-cancer illnesses, such as rheumatologic conditions. Lastly, we hope to improve access to transplant for racial and ethnic minorities, which underpins our motivation to continue to develop novel haploidentical transplant approaches. Additionally, in New York State, it can be challenging for patients to come to Manhattan to receive treatment, and thus we plan to continue expanding our services to Long Island. Our mantra is: “We’re going to the patients, rather than them having to come to us.” Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA, is a clinical professor of medicine and executive director of the Blood and Marrow Transplant Program. His research interests include the development of more effective prevention regimens for graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic transplant. Lupus, Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome, and Complement-Mediated HUS Resolving a Complex Cascade of Symptoms A 35-year-old female was admitted via the ED at NYU Langone Health’s Tisch Hospital with one week of fever, nausea, intense abdominal pain, and diffuse bone pain. She had a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) with a triple-positive aPL antibody profile, HELLP syndrome, and chronic thrombocytopenia. Given the patient’s medical history, lab and imaging results, fever, and intense pain, , co-director of the Lupus Center, concluded that her presentation reflected a flare of atypical catastrophic APS (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia with involvement in her bone, bone marrow, and hepatobiliary tract. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphspholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS.” Worsening symptoms, including acute bilateral blurry vision and a nonoliguric acute kidney injury with nephrotic range proteinuria, led Dr. Belmont and colleagues to order atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) genetic testing. The test revealed variants in both the CFB MCP CD46 ) genes for complement regulatory proteins. “This patient was highly complex, with her lupus and secondary antiphospholipid syndrome unmasking an underlying genetic defect that also gave her complement-mediated HUS,” he says. Effectively managing and eventually resolving the case relied on unveiling and treating the atypical HUS and consulting with specialists in multiple departments to address the refractory CAPS complicated by bone, bone marrow, liver, biliary, choroid/retina, kidney, and jejunum involvement. One month after her hospital admission, the patient was well enough to be discharged. “Close and frequent consultations allowed our interdisciplinary care team to quickly respond to an evolving and cascading suite of symptoms,” says Dr. Belmont. A Highly Complicated Presentation The patient’s test results revealed a highly complicated presentation and included anemia, thrombocytopenia, mild peripheral schistocytes, and elevated liver enzymes. A CT scan showed increased focal intrahepatic biliary ductal dilation; magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) showed new focal biliary dilation and hypodense hepatic lesions; and MRI showed biliary stricture, likely portal vein thrombosis. The ADAMTS13 result was normal. The initial diagnosis was flare of atypical catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS) with widespread thrombosis-related ischemia. Managing a Cascading Crisis To manage a cascading crisis, treatment included heparin, plasma exchange, steroids, cyclophosphamide and rituximab, and supportive care. However, complications included atraumatic Purtscher’s retinopathy, diffuse microvascular injury involving chorioretina and glomerular microvasculature, complement-mediated hemolytic uremic syndrome, acute hematemesis and hematochezia with severe acute blood loss anemia, and thrombotic microangiographic hemolytic anemia. Interdisciplinary Treatment Interdisciplinary treatment was required and included eculizumab to prevent generation of C5a and C5b-9 complement components, nicardipine IV for accelerated hypertension, and anticoagulation, plasma exchange, and steroid therapy. For the resolution, the patient’s visual loss was restored; nausea, bleeding, and elevated liver tests were resolved; significant bicytopenia with anemia and thrombocytopenia and narcotic-requiring diffuse bone pain were resolved; and the acute kidney injury improved. H. Michael Belmont, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director of clinical affairs in the Division of Rheumatology. He is medical director of NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, where he also serves as director of infusion services, and co-director of the Lupus Center. A Unique Case of Aortitis Complicated by Scleromyxedema and COVID-19 A 52-year-old female presented to the emergency department at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn complaining of acute-onset middle back pain that had started three days prior. She described the pain as sharp and radiating to her neck, rated the intensity as 8 on a scale of 1 to 10, and stated that it worsened with deep inspiration or other movements. Three weeks before her visit, the patient had experienced sinus pain, a cough, and a low-grade fever. She tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and self-quarantined. Her medical history included a diagnosis of scleromyxedema (SM). The condition causes papular and sclerodermoid eruption in the setting of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. The patient had also been diagnosed with Hashimoto’s disease and asthma, and had been receiving intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) for the past seven years. In the ED, however, she did not present with associated symptoms such as fever, chills, shortness of breath, chest pain, abdominal pain, or headache. “We have learned that SARS-CoV-2 triggers a severe inflammatory response that leads to a cytokine storm and endotheliitis, resulting in arterial and venous thrombosis,” says Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH , who led the rheumatology team involved in the patient’s care. “My initial thought was that our patient could have had an acute pulmonary embolism. However, she lacked the hallmark presenting complaint of chest pain.” Arriving at an Aortitis Diagnosis The patient was alert and oriented, and her vitals were normal with the exception of an elevated 154/94 blood pressure reading and heart rate of 90. Her heart, lung, abdomen, and extremities exams were all normal, with no rash, skin tightness, or lymphadenopathy. An initial electrocardiogram and chest X-ray were both unremarkable. Likewise, the patient had a normal complete blood count and C-reactive protein levels, but an abnormally high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 120 mm per hour, indicating inflammation. The ED team performed a chest CT with IV contrast, which was negative for pulmonary embolism but showed distal aortic stranding, a concerning sign of aortitis. Subsequently, the patient underwent an abdominal CT with contrast that revealed wall thickening and perivascular stranding of the distal thoracic aorta extending inferiorly to the level of the origin of celiac axis, a finding consistent with segmental aortitis. Multiple non-infectious and infectious etiologies for aortitis have been described and Dr. Homsi’s team ruled out many of them through extensive lab tests. The patient’s antinuclear antibody test titer of 1:160 showed a homogeneous pattern, however. She tested positive for SS-A/Ro antibodies and borderline positive for anti-RNP and anti-CCP antibodies, but negative for rheumatoid factor, anti-dsDNA, anti-Smith, and anti-SSB antibodies. Treatment Resolves Painful Condition After the patient was placed on high-dose (500 mg per day) intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 days, she was switched to oral prednisone (60 mg per day) and her back pain resolved during the hospitalization. Methotrexate was added to her treatment regimen and she was successfully tapered off prednisone. A repeat abdomen/chest CT three months later showed that her aortitis had completely resolved; her ESR had also normalized. The patient continues to receive methotrexate, as well as IVIG for her SM, without any signs of relapse. Beyond established etiologies of aortitis, doctors have reported large vessel vasculitis after infection with SARS-CoV-2, while others have linked systemic vascular dysfunction and endothelial cell injury in the setting of an aberrant cytokine response to the viral infection.. In fact, clinicians have described multiple vasculitic phenomena such as cutaneous vasculitis, Kawasaki-like disease spectrum, and pauci-immune thrombogenic vasculopathy in association with COVID-19. As probable explanations, they have proposed factors such as direct viral endotheliitis, complement-mediated vascular injury, and autoimmunity. Because the patient developed aortitis very shortly after her SARS-CoV-2 infection, Dr. Homsi says he believes a hyperinflammatory state triggered by SARS-CoV-2 was likely behind her acute condition. Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan “Large vessel vasculitis, like aortitis after SARS-CoV-2 infection, carries a difficult diagnosis and treatment plan,” Dr. Homsi says. “Fortunately, an immunosuppressant therapy including intravenous methylprednisolone has shown to be effective in treating the hyperinflammatory state in such patients.” Yamen Homsi, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine in the Division of Rheumatology and section chief of Rheumatology at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn. National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis Lupus Patients With COVID-19 Produce and Maintain Antibody Response after Infection Study results show that 16 percent of 329 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) had a reactive SARS-CoV-2 antibody test, compared with approximately 20 percent seroprevalence in New York City. Seropositive patients were more likely to be Hispanic, and no association with immunosuppressant medications, hydroxychloroquine, or steroid use was found. ADAPTED FROM: Lancet Rheumatol. 2021;3(8):e585–594. Among patients with SLE and COVID-19, 83 percent developed an antibody response to SARS-CoV-2; 62 percent were on immunosuppressants, 88 percent retained an antibody response for up to 10 weeks, and 70 percent retained an antibody response for up to 40 weeks. ADAPTED FROM: 2021;3(8):e585–e594. The immune dysregulation in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and frequent treatment with immunosuppressants have prompted concerns that these patients could be at greater risk for COVID-19. A large study in led by assistant professor of rheumatology , however, found that neither lupus-specific factors nor immunosuppressant use increased the risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2. Among patients in a multiracial and multiethnic cohort who tested positive, most produced a significant and durable SARS-CoV-2 IgG response. “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants.” “Probably the biggest take-home point of this study is that the immune response is functional and enough to react to SARS-CoV-2 for the vast majority of our lupus patients, despite the use of immunosuppressants,” Dr. Saxena says. Stopping Congenital Heart Block in Its Tracks Congenital heart block (CHB) is a key consideration when managing rheumatologic patients during pregnancy. The disorder complicates 2 percent of anti-Ro/SSA antibody-positive pregnancies and carries substantial perinatal morbidity and mortality. Almost all of the survivors require lifelong cardiac pacing. Data suggests ant-inflammatory treatment of primary and secondary (emerging) CHB can prevent progression to complete block, yet the optimal surveillance strategy to detect emergent conduction disease is unknown. To investigate an at-home method in which pregnant women listen for rhythm abnormalities, , the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, is collaborating with Bettina Cuneo, MD, a professor of pediatrics and obstetrics at the University of Colorado. Their Surveillance and Treatment to Prevent Fetal Atrioventricular Block Likely to Occur Quickly (STOP BLOQ) trial, supported by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, launched in 2020. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything.” The multicenter trial is assessing whether anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers can utilize doppler-based fetal heart rate monitoring (FHRM) at home to identify second degree block, and whether rapid treatment with dexamethasone and intravenous immunoglobulin can reverse the conduction defect. “As with other diseases, it is likely that timing is everything,” Dr. Buyon says. At-Home Monitoring Enables Early Warnings To date, the team has enrolled 158 patients. The trial is first stratifying anti-Ro/SSA-positive mothers, based on research conducted by Robert Clancy, PhD , professor of medicine, that evaluates the levels of anti-Ro60 and anti-Ro52 antibodies. Mothers with high titers—defined as being above or equal to the lowest titer obtained for 50 mothers with previous offspring with CHB—are instructed by video and personal interviews to perform FHRM. From 17 to 25 weeks of gestation, the mothers conduct FHRM three times per day in addition to undergoing weekly or biweekly fetal echocardiograms. Mothers text the audio sounds to a central data site. For those FHRM results that the mothers deem abnormal, their texts are immediately sent to an on-call cardiologist for evaluation. If the results are considered abnormal, the mothers are referred for an emergency fetal echocardiogram within six hours. Enrolled mothers have had good overall compliance with at-home FHRM so far, and early experiences have helped refine the trial methods, says Dr. Buyon. After one mother reported difficulty using the monitor, concern over the potential for an abnormality prompted an early echocardiogram that showed tertiary block that was refractory to treatment. The results prompted additional teaching to help enrolled mothers improve their ability to conduct the at-home surveillance. Successful Reversal After Early Detection Another mother reported an abnormality based on her own monitoring that prompted an urgent echocardiogram confirming second degree block. Treatment was initiated within several hours and six days later the fetal heart rate had increased from 70 to 150 beats per minute, with most periods showing a normal sinus rhythm. “That reversal after the abnormality was detected and treated in less than 12 hours is a remarkable milestone. It supports the importance of what this study is trying to accomplish,” Dr. Buyon says. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care.” Although the initial results are encouraging, Dr. Buyon cautions that the study is still in its early stages, with a goal of enrolling 1,300 patients over the next four years. “Even at this early stage we are already learning a great deal about the impact of home monitoring and the empowerment of mothers to participate in their own care,” Dr. Buyon says. New Disease Discovery Drives Genetic Consult Services A new program embedded within the rheumatology service provides genetic evaluations of patients with atypical autoinflammatory disease manifestations. The program builds on pioneering research findings that point to common genetic underpinnings across certain rheumatic conditions. “When we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them.” “Clinical diagnoses are helpful, but when we can provide a molecular diagnosis that may reclassify patients, it’s going to be even more beneficial for figuring out exactly how to treat them,” says , an assistant professor in the Dr. Beck joined the faculty in 2021 and launched the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program a few months later. While Dr. Beck is leading the genetic evaluations, genetic counselor Anna Cantor, MA, MS, works with patients and their families to understand the testing procedure, its implications for their care, and the potential genetic risk to other relatives. The program is accepting referrals of patients whose inflammatory conditions have not responded well to treatment, or for those with unusual clinical presentations. New Options for Vexing VEXAS As a complement to his clinical work, Dr. Beck’s research uses cellular and animal models to explore the genetic and molecular underpinnings of rheumatic diseases with unexplained inflammation. Among adult patients, for example, recent research has underscored the importance of somatic mutations in driving age-related diseases. In a groundbreaking 2020 , Dr. Beck and colleagues reported that somatic mutations in the UBA1 gene on chromosome X cause VEXAS (vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, somatic) syndrome, seen almost exclusively in male patients. In 2021, the American Society of Hematology named the research group’s new disease discovery “ This Year’s Best in Hematology Diagnosis Many of the patients in the study were previously given different rheumatic and hematologic diagnoses, such as relapsing polychondritis or myelodysplastic syndrome, but carried the same genetic mutation. “It shows that these seemingly different diseases have the same underlying etiology,” Dr. Beck says. “Secondly, it helps us understand that in some cases, the clinical diagnosis isn’t anywhere near as helpful as the genetic diagnosis.” Leveraging the information from the genetic evaluation has guided clinicians toward more effective VEXAS syndrome therapies such as bone marrow transplants, Dr. Beck explains. Expanding Genetics-Driven Insights Dr. Beck envisions that genetic evaluations will open up new diagnostic and therapeutic options for many atypical conditions. “You can take patients out of these undiagnosed categories and give them a very highly specific diagnosis, which can have big prognostic and treatment implications,” he says. The Center for Human Genetics & Genomics has placed a growing emphasis on integrating genetics-driven personalized medicine into medical specialties. Given NYU Langone Health’s robust clinical practice in rheumatology, Dr. Beck says, it made sense to merge that strength with the medical center’s unique genetics infrastructure. “This is pairing the best of both worlds,” he says. Nongenetic Enzyme Impairment May Facilitate Lupus Nephritis Pathogenesis Upon examining DNASE1L3 activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), researchers found the vast majority of patients with SLE had no mutation in the DNASE1L3 gene, and more than 50 percent of patients with sporadic SLE and kidney involvement had reduced DNASE1L3 activity. ADAPTED FROM: JEM . 2021;218(5): e20201138 Researchers also found autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3 increase: Patients with sporadic SLE also have more neutralizing autoantibodies targeting DNASE1L3, suggesting a physical—not genetic—activation. ADAPTED FROM: Rare inherited null mutations in the DNASE1L3 gene cause childhood lupus characterized by high titers of anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies and renal involvement. In a Journal of Experimental Medicine , researchers led by Boris Reizis, PhD , examined DNASE1L3 enzyme activity in a cohort of patients with severe sporadic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Their research identified a surprisingly common nongenetic disease mechanism, in which autoantibodies harbored by the patients react with the DNASE1L3 enzyme. “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent.” “Because we found that the nongenetic deficiency of this enzyme was not uncommon, we could study many of these patients and some of the mechanistic details actually became more apparent,” Dr. Reizis says. The DNASE1L3 enzyme helps break down microparticle-associated extracellular DNA. A reduction in its activity leads to an increase in extracellular DNA, which can prompt the immune system to increase the level of dsDNA antibodies and potentially result in SLE with nephritis. “Rare genetic mutations can put a spotlight on the protein target, and by knowing the underlying problem one may be able to apply it to a much larger population of patients,” Dr. Buyon adds. Boris Reizis, PhD, is the Samuel A. Brown Professor of Medicine and a professor of pathology. He is also co-director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity and director of the Translational Immunology Center. His research focuses on stem cells in normal hematopoiesis and leukemia; dendritic cell development and function; and mechanisms of autoimmunity. Hearing & Balance Center Vestibular Testing and other balance disorders are diagnosed by an otolaryngologist—an ear, nose, and throat doctor—or a neurologist. These specialists may use a physical exam, medical history, and results from assessments conducted at the Hearing and Balance Center to help determine the cause of a balance problem in adults and children. Treatment for children is provided through the pediatric vestibular and balance disorder services Our audiologists offer a variety of balance tests, including the following: an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test to assess how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area electrocochleography, to determine whether excess pressure in the inner ear is caused by fluid buildup rotary chair testing, to assess eye movements originating in the vestibular system in response to a chair turning back and forth vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials testing, to measure the natural response of your neck muscles, eye muscles, and vestibular system to certain sounds videonystagmography, visual and sensory tests to evaluate your inner ear function Please consult your physician one week before your rotary chair or videonystagmography test regarding food, medication, and alcohol restrictions. On the day of your test, please arrive in flat shoes and comfortable clothing, and do not wear any makeup or cream. Wear your contact lenses if you use them, but bring your case, solution, and glasses, as you may need to remove your contacts. that our doctors conduct helps advance knowledge of the many conditions that affect the ear. We work to enhance our patients’ care through innovative methods of identifying causes for vertigo and loss of balance. offer evidence-based clinical services to help individuals and organizations prevent and manage injury and disability, as well as early symptoms of musculoskeletal disorders. Our clinical services include evaluation and treatment in the following areas: orthopedic medicine ergonomics . We also have a work conditioning program that addresses the many obstacles an individual who has been injured faces before resuming their everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership between our providers and patients, and all patients are encouraged to become active participants in their care. Building a Level 1 Children’s Surgical Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital has been named a Level 1 Children’s Surgery Center by the American College of Surgeons (ACS)—the highest designation a hospital can receive—for providing high-quality children’s surgical care. It is one of only two pediatric hospitals in New York State to achieve this prestigious verification, and among five in the Northeast. recently spoke with , director of children’s surgical services at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, about the collaboration, innovation, and excellence that go into building a world-class children’s surgical program. A Whole-Hospital Effort Dr. Fisher, congratulations on this designation. Besides meeting the rigorous qualifications for a Level 1 center, what is the secret to building a strong children’s surgical program? Dr. Fisher: Thank you, we are thrilled. It has been a whole-hospital effort. A surgical program is so much more than a well-trained surgeon. It’s the anesthesiologists, nurses, scrub team, radiologists, pathologists, social workers—the list is a mile long. But it’s also people who don’t often get recognized: the building staff; the people who turn over the rooms, who ensure all our instruments are there. It’s the patient technicians, who spend more time with the patients before and after surgery than anybody else. “NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles.” There’s an incredible inherent trust we take on when doing this job. We take that trust very seriously, and we couldn’t confidently say things are going to go perfectly if we didn’t trust each other, as well. NYU Langone is a very collaborative environment, and in Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, we’ve taken all those systems and personal relationships and shrunk them into a tighter package. This allows us to iterate our innovation, our quality, and our safety in much faster cycles. Advocates for Patients and Families How does this collaborative, nimble environment translate to creating a culture of family-centered care? One of the big drivers that helps us deliver on that promise is . With Sala Institute, we have support from a full-time staff and innumerable support services for children. Early on, the institute focused its efforts on improving quality, safety, and family-centered care for the children in the hospital, but so many of their efforts never touched the operating room. Now, with any new initiative Sala Institute is supporting, if it even remotely involves children that will be going down a surgical pathway, our program is involved. We can push things out to all the pediatric surgeons in a block, get information back from them, and push this out to the children’s hospital and to families. This allows us to speak in a much more unified voice. For example, we listened to families and learned we weren’t communicating with them in the ways they wanted while their children were undergoing surgery. Partnering with Sala Family and Youth Advisory Councils, we’ve designed pathways to communicate more effectively with families before, during, and after surgery—and improve communication among our clinical staff. Collaboration Combined with Innovation Are there stand-out initiatives in children’s surgical services you’d like to highlight? One thing we’re proud of is that we’re able to solve complex problems in very unique ways. For instance, three out of four babies don’t survive congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS). In a recent case, we assembled a team that included maternal–fetal medicine, pediatric surgery, pediatric otolaryngology, pediatric anesthesiology, and pediatric ECMO to perform a lifesaving procedure in a partially delivered fetus. “As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives.” We also have a great collaboration between our pediatric surgeons and our adult surgical colleagues. Dr. Robert J. Cerfolio , a world-renowned thoracic surgeon, performed a on a young girl’s trachea to remove a mass—a minimally invasive approach that saved her from being in the hospital for months. In our pediatric spine program, Dr. Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri is employing spinal tethering as a way to treat scoliosis, using a series of ropes and tethers along the spine. People fly in from all over the world for this expertise. Dr. Jun Tashiro in our Adolescent Healthy Weight Program offers that puts teens on a whole new trajectory for their lives. Our pediatric cardiac surgery outcomes are some of the best in the nation, and our pediatric cardiac ICU