Contractor shall obtain waiver if chimes are used in lieu of tones/horns. IV. For Operating Rooms: a. During a detected fire/smoke alarm, only the fan/unit serving the Operating Room which the alarm was generated at shall shut down. All other operating room fans shall stay operational. For central AHU systems a variance is required to be filed with the FDNY and DOB and shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. V. Newly installed smoke heads shall stay covered until completion of project. No more that dirty heads shall be accepted upon project completion. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. C. Equipment 1. Fire Alarm System Approved Manufacturers (no substitutes): a. Edwards EST3 (Manhattan Superblock) b. (Brooklyn Campus) Contact Brooklyn Facilities c. (Long Island Campus) Contact Long Island Facilities d. Contact Real Estate & Housing Group for all off site locations for manufacturer 2. Heat Detectors Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA2 HFS NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 443 2023 3. Strobe/Speaker Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSPSTR Series 4. Strobe/Horn Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LHSR Series 5. Strobe Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSTR Series 6. Smoke Detector Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA OSD 7. Duct Detector Above ceiling devices shall have separate LED indication and test buttons with magnetic test switch. Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA SDH 8. Manual Pull Station Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST 270 Series 9. Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems shall be installed in all Mechanical and Electrical rooms that have ceilings above 10 feet or where conduits/ductwork/equipment/etc. will prevent maintenance of smoke detector heads. Approved Manufacturers: a. VESDA END OF FIRE ALARM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 444 2023 7. BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Department of Fire, Department of Environmental Protection Agency and all other applicable local Codes. For properties located outside of the City of New York, the entire installation shall comply with all applicable local codes and standards. B. General Requirements and Policy i. General • For renovation work in existing buildings, the existing manufacturer shall be used. For example, the Kimmel Pavilion in the Main Campus is served by an Automated Logic Corporation system. Any modifications to the existing control system shall utilize Automated Logic Corporation controllers. • All controllers, sensors, field devices, etc., shall be UL listed. Control units shall be listed for UL 916 Energy Management Equipment. ii. Engineering • Design engineer shall provide a Network Riser as part of their design documentation. The Design Engineer shall not rely on the BMS contractor to create this. • Ensure BMS sequences of operation align with control sensors indicated on single line drawings. • Ensure BMS network is not on the IT network. • AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. • All new BAS installations shall utilize IP based local controllers. • For all systems that leverage both water and air to maintain climate control, always use water to achieve setpoints prior to additional use of air beyond minimum. o Minimum airflow determined by ventilation and/or pressurization requirements. iii. IP/IT Security • For details on policy for IP/IT security, reference the NYU Langone Health Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. • For sites with existing BMS's on the MCIT network, the BMS can remain on the MCIT network. For new sites installing a BMS, the BMS network should be stand alone and not part of the MCIT network. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 445 2023 iv. BMS Governance for Locations Not Owned by NYULH For NYULH locations not owned by NYULH (landlord locations): • Equipment owned and operated by NYULH shall be connected to the NYULH BMS. If an NYULH BMS does not exist, it shall be installed. • Equipment owned and operated by the landlord shall remain on the landlord's BMS. • Under no circumstances shall a project connect NYULH maintained equipment to an existing landlord BMS network. v. Factory Acceptance/Witness Test Factory tests are required for new BMS Panels installs, Panels shall be reviewed and graphics/sequences tested at controls factory prior to shipment, this only applies to large equipment and systems. vi. Decommissioning and Demolition General • For any decommissioning and demolition worked performed on the NYULH Manhattan main campus, the engineer and project team shall follow the “NYULH Manhattan Campus BMS Controller Removal From Field and Database document. Obtain for Manhattan main campus facilities group. • The following items must be included within the “General Scope of Work” section of the Contract Documents: o As existing mechanical and electrical systems are demolished and replaced with new systems, the existing control system serving the demolished equipment must also be removed from the BMS, in its entirety, inclusive of all field devices, controllers, wiring and server related programming (i.e., graphics, trends, alarms, database, etc.) o The BATC Contractor is responsible for removing all items described below. Failure to complete any item listed below will require the BATC Contractor to perform this service free of charge when discovered, regardless of how much time has lapsed since the original demo project. o Prior to starting the decommissioning process, determine whether all points located within the controller are required to be decommissioned. If not, notify NYULH Facility Management Team to determine if the remaining points are to be relocated to a different controller or the controller is to remain. o The BATC Contractor shall be responsible for updating existing “as built” drawings for any systems/equipment which is demolished. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 446 2023 Decommissioning of Software • Remove all controller databases. • Transfer all alarms, trends and graphics associated with the system to Decommissioned Links graphic. o Note: Decommissioned Links graphic shall not be made available to typical users. For use by the BATC Contractor and the NYULH Facility Management Team management only. • Update all building and campus summary graphics to remove decommissioned systems. Decommissioning of Hardware • Determine whether the controller is the only controller on the power circuit. If so, label the circuit breaker (located in existing power distribution panel) as Spare. • Determine if the controller is at end of run of communication loop or if communication loop is dedicated to this controller. If controller is not at end of run in communication loop, then re terminate communication wiring such that existing controllers on same loop continue communications to server. o If controller is at end of run in communication loop, relocate any end of line resistors to the next controller in line. • Disconnect the following from the controller: o Communication wiring. o Power wiring. o All field wiring. • Remove conduit and wiring as much as possible. At a minimum, conduit and wiring shall be removed up to shaft or wall penetrations. Remaining conduit and wiring shall be tagged Not In Use. • Remove all control panels and field devices. Coordinate with NYULH Facility Management Team to determine whether any of the existing controllers and field devices may be used as attic stock. vii. Delivery, Storage and Handling • Shipping and storage protection shall be provided by manufacturer to ensure that the interior and exterior of components are completely protected from damage, dirt or weather. Components shall be continuously covered with plastic or other durable means, until just prior to installation. Maintain protection after installation to protect against on going construction activities. viii. Project Closeout General Requirements: • The following items must be included within the “Project Closeout” section of the Contract Documents: o Systems will not be added to the BMS network until they are fully commissioned, training has taken place, and operation and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 447 2023 o Training must be completed prior to occupancy and Facility Management Team acceptance. o The BATC Contractor will provide onsite 24/7 coverage for all warrantied systems until commissioning and training is complete and operations and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. Testing and Calibrating: • Commission and test the final installed system prior to acceptance by the Facility Management Team. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to calibrate and prepare for service control components, instrumentation and field devices. o This work includes: Zero, span and range calibration checks of instruments and accessories, both field mounted and panel mounted. In addition, check actuators, control valves and dampers to ensure proper action. Stroke each valve and damper actuator and make necessary adjustments for stem and blade travel. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to check the operation of control loops, set points and interlocks. Test every input/output point for proper performance through the entire system and maintain accurate test records for each point throughout the testing cycle and thereafter. The Facility Management Team reserves the right to inspect those test records at any time and also to witness any of the point tests they deem appropriate. • All equipment used for testing and calibration shall be NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable and calibrated within the preceding 12 month period. Certificates of calibration shall be available for review by the Facility Management Team. ix. Warranty • Warranty direct digital control units, field devices, components, etc., to be free from defects in workmanship and material for a period of one (1) year from completion of final commissioning, which may occur beyond equipment acceptance and initial occupancy by NYULH. During this period, BATC Contractor shall furnish all labor to repair or replace all items or components that fail due to defects in workmanship or material. • Failures on control systems, including all computer equipment, transmission equipment and all sensors and control devices during the warranty period, shall be adjusted, repaired or replaced at no additional cost or reduction in service to NYULH. • Provide necessary preventive maintenance on the system during the warranty period. Provide updates to operator workstation and server software, project specific software, graphic software, database software and firmware that resolve software deficiencies at no charge during warranty period. • During the warranty period, BATC Contractor shall test the system under varying seasonal conditions to ensure that all operational sequences, as specified, are performed correctly. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 448 2023 o This shall include at least three additional visits after initial NYULH Facility Management Team acceptance. Where necessary, BATC Contractor shall make programming adjustments and instrument calibrations at no expense to NYULH. • At the end of the warranty period update “as built” documentation to reflect any modifications made during the warranty period. • Uncompleted Work Period: At the end of the warranty period, a five year uncompleted work period shall begin. The uncompleted work period shall be used to determine if the BATC Contractor has completed the entire scope of work as required for the project. If work has been found to be incomplete or never installed, as determined by the NYULH Facility Management Team, the BATC Contractor shall be responsible for completing the work at no additional cost to NYULH. x. User Access Levels Follow NYULH Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. xi. Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTU: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White C. Locations i. NYULH Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Automated Logic Corporation b. Schneider Electric c. Laboratory Control Solutions: Kimmel Pavilion; Medical Science Building; Science Building; Smilow Research Center; Tisch Hospital, Skirball i. Flow tracking applications ii. Fume hood applications NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 449 2023 ii. NYULH Long Island The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Tridium Niagara iii. NYULH Brooklyn The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Trane Tracer ii. NYULH LOH The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. C&S Building Services iii. NYULH Real Estate & Housing For sites that have an NYULH managed BMS on premises, confirm in writing with the NYULH Real Estate group that the existing BMS network is sufficient and not obsolete. For sites that do not have an NYULH managed BMS on premises the following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Schneider b. ALC D. People The following individuals/groups are named throughout the BAS Standard: • NYULH Project Manager • NYULH Facility Management Team • NYULH Senior Controls Specialists o For the NYULH Long Island campus, the Controls Shop Manager acts in this role • NYULH Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH MCIT • Engineer of Record • Building Automation Temperature Controls (BATC) Contractor These individuals/groups are to produce, approve, be consulted on or be informed of all deliverables as indicated in the Deliverables Approval Matrix. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 450 2023 Deliverables Approval Matrix: Approved BMS Vendors: Reference the NYULH Approved Vendors List for vendors that are authorized to install the site specific BMS manufacturer’s product line. E. Deliverables i. Drawings & Specifications a. Control Signal Line Diagrams The Engineer of Record shall produce one control single line diagram per system type. Each shall consist of the following: • Piping and instrumentation diagram • Hardwire interlocks • All required BAS points, alarms and trends NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 451 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) b. Smart Comfort Program Strategies Energy Saving Strategies: • Engineer of Record shall analyze each individual space and consider its use to develop a strategic energy saving sequence during unoccupied periods. • These areas shall also have a means of placing the system back into an occupied mode • Strategies that shall be considered, but not limited to, are as follows: • Flow Setbacks • Temperature setbacks • Lighting control Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) ii. BAS Submittal • All BAS submittals shall be developed using approved submittals and shop drawings. Design documents as well as non approved submittals and shop drawings are not acceptable for use in BAS submittal development. Submittals for each project, regardless of scope and size, shall consist of the following: • All subsections of the BAS Submittal that shall be submitted as independent deliverables. o Network Architecture Diagram o Control Valve Schedule o Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations o Schedule of BMS Alarms o BMS System Graphics o Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence o Test Forms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 452 2023 • Compliance document consisting of Specifications 23 0900 and 23 0993 and, at each section, paragraph and subparagraph, identify compliance or non compliance by C (Comply), D (Deviate) or E (Exception). For each D and E item, describe what specific alternative approach has been taken. • Specification sheets for each type of electronic sensors, transmitters, controllers, actuators, relays, switches and miscellaneous control devices. • Schedule and specification sheets for control damper actuators, including material and construction details, duct size, damper size, actuator mounting location and quantity of actuators. Actuator sizing calculations and configuration shall be submitted. Actuators to be selected based on approved sheet metal shop drawings and damper submittals. • DDC controller point list. • Point nomenclature. o Projects which are adding or modifying equipment in an existing NYULH site with an existing BMS, keep reference and point names consistent with the rest of the system. This applies to graphics, program definition, etc. • Control diagrams for each system with a written sequence of operation and control devices identified with instrument tag numbers. Control diagrams to include symbol and abbreviation list. o Sequence of operation shall not be a facsimile of the engineer’s project documentation o Note: For variable air volume air handling systems, control diagrams are to indicate field installed location of end of duct static pressure transmitters. • The BMS vendor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers (CB), power supplies (PS), transformers (TX), control relays (CR), terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. Check figure CPL 01 as a reference for the control panel layout. Figure CPL 01A shows the control panel layout if the control panel has an external power source control panel. Ladder type electrical diagrams for each control system with terminal connections identified by number and location. Include symbol and abbreviation list for electrical control diagrams. • Complete listing and description of program routines resident in direct digital control units. • Schedule of all points trended for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and trend interval. • Riser diagrams for power and communication with locations labeled for all controllers, transformers and other relevant control components. • Panelboard from which power shall be taken, along with total power to be taken from each panelboard. • Interfaces (software and hardware) with equipment provided in other subsections of the specifications. Show connection details based upon the approved submittals of the equipment being interfaced with. For software interfaces (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.), submit list of all interface points transmitted to or received from the equipment. • List of OEM equipment interface points as well as configuration point mapping. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 453 2023 • Mechanical piping shop drawings indicating proposed locations of all temperature, flow and pressure transmitters. • Wiring and control diagrams, dimension and specification sheets, and sequence of operation for the flow tracking system and all of its components. • Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, submittal documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to NYULH Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive submittal indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. • Reviews shall be conducted by: o Senior Controls Specialists o Engineering and Commissioning o Approval shall be by Engineer of Record • The following submittals can be included in the overall BAS submittal or submitted as standalone documents: a. Network Architecture Diagram Submittal shall consist of the following: • System Architecture Drawing Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed location of communication loop and risers. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record b. Control Valve Schedule Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of automatic control valves and motorized block valves. The schedule shall list body pressure rating, close off pressure rating, flow coefficient (Cv), pressure drop at specified capacity, rangeability and valve flow characteristics. • Specification sheets for each valve. • Valves shall be sized based on approved equipment shop drawings, not mechanical schedules. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 454 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record c. Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations Submittal shall consist of the following: • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed locations of all wall mounted devices (i.e., DDC units, control panels, sensors, thermostats, risers, etc.). d. Schedule of BMS Alarms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of all alarms (hardwired and software generated) for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and alarm value. • Description of smart alarm program as it applies for each system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record e. BMS Graphics Submittal shall consist of the following: • PDF copies of proposed graphics to be added to the BMS. • BMS graphics to show proposed layout of BAS points and any diagrams or tables as required. • BMS graphics shall be developed based on NYU standard graphic symbols, colors and design as found in the Smarts section under HMI/Graphics. • All BMS graphics shall be coordinated with NYULH. • BMS graphics shall include system maps showing overlays of single line mechanical systems. o System map overlays shall be allowed to toggle between Off, Supply, Exhaust, Supply and Exhaust, Reheat Water, Chilled Water and Perimeter Hot Water systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 455 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record f. Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence Submittal shall consist of the following: • Detailed description of software program for controller reboot sequence. • Detailed description of software program for controller power failure restart program sequence. • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Facility Management Team • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record g. Test Forms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Checklists of testing procedures, including point to point wiring and sequence check. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 456 2023 iii. Closeout Documents a. Acceptance Documents The following Closeout Documents shall be reviewed and accepted prior to final acceptance of the project by NYULH: • Operation and Maintenance Documentation o As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format o As Built Database • 72 Hour Trend Reports • BAS Vendor Service Agreement b. Operation and Maintenance Documentation On completion of installation, system commissioning and Facility Management Team acceptance, the BATC Contractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals. Manuals shall be updated each time changes are made to the system. Manual shall be submitted through BuildFlow electronically. In addition, one hard copy shall be furnished in a three ring binder and provided to the local Engineering Office. Operation and maintenance documentation shall consist of the following: • Table of contents • As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format • Programming manual containing the following: o Documentation of all project specific application and BMS programs o All passwords and/or required access credentials o Complete final point schedule including all hardware and software data points and documentation of calibration and configuration values for all inputs, outputs, variables and PID loops at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing o System database as functional at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing, including all graphics and images used by and/or created on electronic format • Parts list containing supplier information (manufacturer name, address, telephone number and website address) with complete component model number and ordering information. • Final calibration, commissioning and testing reports. • Warranty letters for all installed systems and components. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 457 2023 Operation and maintenance manual must be submitted to the Facility Management Team prior to occupancy. Systems will not be accepted by NYULH without submission and approval of operation and maintenance manuals. i. As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format Submittal shall consist of the following, which shall represent the "as built" condition of the system and incorporate all information supplied with the approved submittals, inclusive of: • Updated existing system architecture drawing, inclusive of any modifications made during the project construction. • Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Sequence of operation • Bill of Material • Control diagrams depicting controlled system configuration indicating all field devices • Control panel wiring diagrams o Include power panel number and circuit breaker number feeding each control panel • Starter/VFD interface wiring diagrams • Point list for all hardwired input/output points • Point list for all input/output points derived via communication interface (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.) with third party equipment such as air conditioning units, variable frequency drives and chillers • Floor plans indicating exact location of all devices • All other items listed as requirements of the BAS Submittal Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, “as built” documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to the Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive “as built” shop drawing indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record With each local control panel, provide a paper copy of the “as built” control diagram, sequence of operation, bill of material and point list for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 458 2023 the equipment served by the control panel. Documentation shall be placed in a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door. ii. As Built Database A composite “as built” database shall be created and updated at completion of each project. The database shall consist of the following: • All “as built” documentation • Project start and completion dates • Warranty start and completion date • Brief description of project scope • Names of the BATC Contractor project team: • Project Manager • Field technicians • Software programmers • Subcontractor name and contact information • Software database • Software shall be accessible via dynamic link on respective equipment graphics c. 72 Hour Trend Reports Submittal shall consist of the following: • Trending data for 72 hour automatic system operation. • Trending data to include all relevant hardwired and software data points associated with the system that shall indicate that the system is operating as per design intent. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record F. Performance and Functional Requirements i. System Requirements Note: for details on the software functions listed for each system, see the corresponding software function in the “Functional Requirements” section. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 459 2023 a. Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) Hardware • Pressure independent unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor utilizing differential pressure sensing. • Damper actuator shall be fail in place type. • For terminal units with reheat coils, provide discharge temperature transmitter. • Reheat coil control valves shall be spring return fail closed. • Space temperature sensor located in occupied areas shall be indicating and adjustable with a limit of ± 3°F (adjustable). o Where multiple sensors are installed in a room served by multiple terminal units, only one sensor shall be indicating and adjustable type. o Set point adjustment shall be common for all terminal units serving a room. • Space temperature sensors located in unoccupied or transient areas such as corridors are to be non indicating and non adjustable. • Space temperature sensors for vivarium spaces shall be duct mounted. Setpoints shall be adjusted via BMS only. • Transformer, damper actuator, unitary controller with differential pressure transmitter and fuse shall be mounted in a NEMA 1 steel enclosure with removable screw cover. Disconnect switch to be mounted external to panel. Switch activation shall not require removal of enclosure panel. • Provide occupancy sensors to enable setback functions Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Night Setback • Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • Cooling and heating set points should adjust up and down and maintain a built in bias of 2°F (adjustable). • All boxes must contain a k factor in the software depending on box size according to manufacturer as well as a calibration factor. o Formula: Sqrt(Velocity Pressure)*(Box Size k factor)*(Balancer’s Reading/BMS Reading) • Alarms • Demand Response • Air quality system interface for air change rate adjustment • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 460 2023 Points • Terminal unit airflow reading • Terminal unit airflow set point • Discharge temperature (for units with reheat coils only) • Discharge temperature set point (for units with reheat coils only) • Reheat coil valve command (for units with reheat coils only) • Space temperature • Space temperature set points • Space temperature high and low alarm limits • Occupied heat/cool set points • Unoccupied heat/cool set points • Damper position • Occupancy mode • Perimeter radiation valve command (for units with perimeter heating only) • Include six additional software points to be defined by NYULH. b. Fan Powered VAV All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Fan Powered VAVs as well. In addition, provide the following: • Run status monitoring of fan via current sensing relay. • On actuation of a life safety alarm in the area served by the terminal unit, the unit fan shall stop and the primary air damper shall fully open. • Additional points: o Fan start/stop o Fan run status c. Flow Tracking Applications All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Flow Tracking Applications as well. In addition, provide the following: • A control panel for each tracking pair that shall contain the control unit, supply terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and control transformer. The supply terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, flow cross airflow sensor, and supply air temperature transmitter (located downstream of the reheat coil). The exhaust terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, exhaust terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and flow cross airflow sensor. o Minimum airflow sensor measurement accuracy shall be ± of actual airflow and shall have a repeatability within ± 0. over the entire airflow range of each air terminal. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 461 2023 • Additional software functions: o Flow Tracking Control o Fume Hood Control • Additional points: o Fume hood exhaust flow o Fume hood exhaust low flow alarm. o Supply/makeup airflow o General exhaust flow o Total exhaust flow o Total supply flow o Room offset • Flow Tracking Terminal Units Associated with Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply, general exhaust and fume hood terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (4 20 mA input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Loss of electric power or control signal shall cause the exhaust damper to fail open to the maximum scheduled design flow, and the supply damper to fail closed to the minimum scheduled design flow. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 1.0 second for flow change from minimum flow to ninety percent () at nominal load. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet NEC Class 2 requirements. • Flow Tracking Terminal Units without Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply and general exhaust terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (0 10 VDC or 2 10 VDC input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 90 seconds. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet UL Class 2 requirements. Actuator shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC. • Spider type multiple probe airflow sensing tubes of the automatic averaging type shall be 316 or 304 stainless steel. Accuracy of the sensing tubes shall be ± 2. with a repeatability of 0. over a range of 0 3,000 ft./min. at 1 duct diameter upstream straight run duct. The flow signal shall also be used as the input to the BMS and also for balancing and field measurement of air volume. The following pertains specifically to fume hoods: • Operational Parameters (to be available to the NYULH Facility Management Team and authorized service personnel): o Fume hood average face velocity set point o Fume hood minimum and maximum exhaust airflow set points o Face velocity high and low alarm limits and associated alarm time delay to avoid transient alarms o Face velocity high and low warning limits o Emergency purge time periods and exhaust levels o Allowable maximum sash opening associated with the sash alert feature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 462 2023 • Pushbutton: Provide a mushroom type pushbutton and local audible annunciation (i.e., horn) located at the exit door of each area that contains a fume hood. The switch shall, on annunciation, drive the fume hood to maximum airflow. On activation of the pushbutton switch, the audible alarm shall be activated. Switch and audible alarm shall be provided with a label for user operation as per NYULH Health and Safety requirements. Labels shall state instructional operation and required actions that need to be perform, if needed. Switch shall be manually reset type furnished with protective cover to allow the switch to be viewable without tampering or accidental activation. • Hood Interface Module: The hood interface module shall provide emergency override, high flow alarm, low flow alarm, hood status lights and programmable audible alarm. Audible alarm shall be no more than 85 dB at 1 meter (95 dB at 1 meter for constant volume applications). Module shall be designed to fit in a 2 inch by 4 inch (single gang) electric box and mounted on the face of the fume hood. Connection using phone jack termination. All alarm set points shall be fully field programmable as well as the time delay interval prior to alarming. Module shall also allow high/low sash alarms and limits (does not apply to constant