diseases include fever, chills, night sweats, cough, sore throat, runny nose, conjunctivitis (“pink eye”), vomiting, diarrhea, and a rash that is either known to be infectious or of an unknown/undiagnosed cause. who do not knowingly have a communicable disease(s) and who are free of signs and symptoms of communicable diseases are required to read and to sign a Medical Attestation Form verifying that they understand these restrictions and validating that they are without signs or symptoms of communicable disease at the time of their visit. Members of the media who refuse to read and sign the Medical Screening Attestation Form are prohibited from NYU Langone ORs and/or patient care areas. Members of the media must be accompanied at all times in any NYU Langone facility by a member of the NYU Langone Office of Communications and Marketing staff. NYU Langone reserves the right to refuse to grant permission for any reason, including but not limited to potential disruption of patient care, research, or student activities; damage to, or alteration of, medical center property; disruption of traffic or parking; or potential safety hazards, or if NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interests of NYU Langone or its patients. Members of the media in violation of this policy will be prohibited from entering NYU Langone and required to leave NYU Langone. Media Requests for Filming or Photography for Commercial or Entertainment Purposes / Guidelines From time to time, NYU Langone permits filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes by legitimate agencies or production companies to be conducted at its facilities. Examples of filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes include, but are not limited to: print or broadcast advertising commercials and movies. NYU Langone’s permission is required to conduct filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes on its campus or in any NYU Langone facility. NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes but reserves the right to a) charge for such use, b) require compliance with the guidelines below, and c) deny permission if, for any reason, the medical center deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. The purpose of this policy is to protect the reputation of the NYU Langone Health brand and ensure the privacy and safety of our patients, as well as to ensure that if permission is granted to film or photograph in NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes the filming and photography is consistent with all other existing or future NYU Langone policies. The following guidelines will apply to all requests for filming or photography at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes: Requests for permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes must be submitted to the Office of Communications and Marketing. They can be reached Monday through Friday between 9:00AM and 5:30PM at Requests for permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for entertainment or commercial purposes must be made at least 10 business days before proposed filming or photography would occur. NYU Langone, at its discretion, may require information including, but not limited to, date, duration and hours of filming, number of people involved, and copy of final script in order to assess the feasibility of the request. NYU Langone reserves the right to refuse to grant permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone facilities for commercial or entertainment purposes for any reason, including but not limited to potential disruption of patient care, research, or student activities; damage to, or alteration of, NYU Langone property; disruption of traffic or parking; or potential safety hazards; or if NYU Langone deems such request not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. If permission to film or photograph at NYU Langone for entertainment or commercial purposes is granted: Requesting organization must sign an NYU Langone film location agreement prior to the start of any filming or photography; A copy of the final script or storyboard must be submitted for approval prior to signing the Film Location Agreement; A Certificate of Insurance naming NYU Langone, officers, employees, and agents as additional insured for the days of the shoot must be provided at least 24 hours prior to the shoot. Proof of comprehensive general liability insurance, including personal injury and property damage, must also be included. The General Liability Insurance must come with a limit not less than $5 million and Workers Compensation Insurance must be set to New York statutory limits. Automobile Insurance with a limit not less than $1 million combined single limit must be secured for any vehicles used in conjunction with the production. The film-maker must provide evidence that they have secured the appropriate permits from New York City. Most areas of NYU Langone may be used for filming. However, any specific location is available on a case-by-case basis and must be approved prior to filming. Prior to filming, and at a minimum of ten days prior to the desired date of filming or photography, a representative of the production company must walk through the desired locations with a representative of the Office of Communications. NYU Langone reserves the right to assign at its discretion staff to assist said production company when issues relating to safety may apply and charge the company for those services, e.g., No production company electrician may plug into the medical center’s power unless supervised by a house electrician who will stay with the production company for the duration of the shoot. NYU Langone reserves the right to charge a fee for the use of its facilities for filming or photography for commercial or entertainment purposes and the associated fees are due in full on the day before the filming or photography begins. Permission to film does not include a license to use the NYU Langone name or the name of any of its constituent entities. No mention is to be made of, or recognition given to, NYU Langone or any of its entities unless specifically authorized by the Office of Communications and Marketing. Additional expenses associated with the filming or photography will be the responsibility of the requesting agency or production company. When working around or shooting within a hospital environment, the agency or production company will be expected to take appropriate precautions to ensure that filming does not interfere with hospital operations and patient care. In the event NYU Langone staff, assisting with the production, are called away to assist with a patient care emergency during production, NYU Langone will not be liable for any cost associated with the delay in production. Members of the agency or production company: Members of the agency or production company must be accompanied at all times while on campus or in any NYU Langone facility by a member of the NYU Langone Office of Communications and Marketing staff. Patient Requests to Film, Photograph, or Publicize This policy governs requests from patients to film, videotape, photograph, or otherwise publicize or have filmed, videotaped, or photographed any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons. The purpose of this policy is to ensure the privacy and safety of our patients, and protect the interests and reputation of NYU Langone, as well as to ensure compliance with all other existing or future medical center policies. The following guidelines will apply to all requests from patients to film, videotape, photograph, or otherwise publicize or have filmed, videotaped, or photographed, any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons: Patients are prohibited from filming, or having filmed, any medical service or treatment they receive while at NYU Langone for personal or professional reasons. Patients are prohibited from inviting representatives of the media to visit them while they are at NYU Langone for purposes of publicity without the express permission of the Office of Communications and Marketing. All such requests must be directed to the Office of Communications and Marketing consistent with the requirements of MEDIA POLICY #1 Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, Videotaping or Photography on the NYU Langone campus. As set forth in that policy, NYU Langone will consider reasonable requests for news-related, non-commercial interviews and shooting but reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. Patients are also prohibited from holding a press conference, or inviting representatives of the media to a press conference, at NYU Langone without the express permission of the Office of Communications and Marketing. NYU Langone may consider such requests and all such requests must be directed to the Office of Communications and Marketing consistent with the requirements of MEDIA POLICY #1 Media Requests for Interviews, Filming, Videotaping or Photography on NYU Langone's campus. As set forth in that policy, NYU Langone reserves the right to deny permission if, for any reason, NYU Langone deems that the request is not in the best interest of NYU Langone or its patients. We have locations in Manhattan. 646-825-6324 A urogynecologic disorder, also called a female pelvic disorder, refers to specific problems with the bladder or reproductive organs in women, including urinary incontinence , and recurrent urinary tract infections. If you are a woman with one of these or other urogynecologic conditions, specialists at NYU Langone’s Center for Female Pelvic Medicine offer a number of highly effective and minimally invasive treatments, emphasizing both quality of life and high-quality care. Our physicians have vast experience in treating women with pelvic and urologic disorders, and have made significant contributions to research and advances in the field. We recognize that no single treatment fits all women, and we specialize in providing innovative, individualized care. Our offices feature a full spectrum of state-of-the-art diagnostic and treatment services, many of which can be performed on an outpatient basis. We pride ourselves on offering compassionate and personalized treatment. Whether you are having a routine procedure or a complex operation, our staff is always available to answer any questions you may have and explain every step of your journey with us. At the Center for Female Pelvic Medicine, our high standard of medical and surgical care is matched by our thoughtful treatment decision-making process that takes your personal needs and preferences into account. Care for Postpartum Pelvic Floor Disorders Pelvic floor disorders such as complex vaginal lacerations, infections, urinary or bowel control problems, pain, or fistulas, are common after delivering a baby and often require treatment. Our multidisciplinary team of specialists in female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery focus on helping postpartum women with these conditions. After a thorough review of your medical history and a physical exam, we assess your symptoms and level of pain to determine an individualized treatment plan. We offer specialized bladder, bowel, and radiology testing, and provide surgery or other minor procedures that may be needed as part of your treatment. To help maintain your pelvic health, we provide individualized education and planning for future childbirth. When required, we also offer a comprehensive pelvic muscle strengthening program with specialized physical therapists. Second Opinions We meet with many women who are seeking a second medical opinion about a diagnosis or treatment plan. Our female medicine specialists may recommend a different course of treatment for you to consider or may confirm the findings of your regular doctor. Either way, discussing your care with one of our expert physicians can allow you to make a more informed decision. Our female pelvic medicine specialists have vast experience in providing customized medical and surgical care to every woman they see, tailoring their treatment approaches to fit each woman’s unique needs. Christina M. Escobar Nirit Rosenblum Valerie Shoichet PA Lauren E. Stewart Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Doctor Head & Neck Cancer Doctors Help People Look Better Ambitious Surgery Plan Helps Musician Regain Partial Hearing Restoring Functional Improvement Following Facial Paralysis Surgeons Resect Rare Facial Neuroma, Restore Facial Function NYU Langone Launches Facial Paralysis & Reanimation Center Adult Reconstructive Surgery Robotic Orthopedic Surgery Foot & Ankle Care Musculoskeletal Oncology Orthopedic Trauma & Fracture Pediatric Orthopedics Second Opinion Service Shoulder & Elbow Care Spine Care Sports Medicine & Sports Medicine Primary Care NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons specialize in the latest, cutting-edge, robotic and computer-assisted surgical techniques for hip and knee replacement procedures. In these procedures, evidence-based pain management and rapid recovery protocols are combined with robotic and computer-assisted surgical tools. Robotic tools make precise movements that preserve bone and tissue and often result in a faster recovery and less muscle and soft tissue damage. Computer-assisted surgery uses technology such as robots, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and pressure sensors, which help doctors properly position implants. Our focus on enhanced recovery and a personalized approach to pain management—that may include a combination of opioid and non-opioid pain relievers and topical medications—enables many of our patients to return home the same day of their robotic or computer-assisted surgery. Robotic Hip Replacement Surgery Our doctors use robotic hip replacement surgery to treat osteoarthritis, developmental hip dysplasia hip impingement syndrome , and conditions causing severe joint damage. The goal of the surgery is to relieve pain and improve mobility. The most important factor in hip replacement surgery, in terms of pain, function, and recovery, is surgical technique. Precise surgical techniques that limit soft tissue damage are key to a rapid recovery. Accurate bone surface preparation with customized biomechanical restoration of the hip determines the function, comfort, and longevity of your implant. Robotic surgical techniques allow surgeons to remove only as much bone as is necessary. The robot system also ensures that the new replacement parts are aligned at the correct angles, which vary with every patient. Hip replacement surgery requires a surgeon to remove damaged bone and cartilage and replace these with synthetic materials, which can affect limb length. Using robotic and computer-assisted tools helps restore your leg length and preserves your comfort and gait. Robotic Knee Replacement Surgery Total knee replacement or partial knee replacement is a common treatment for severe knee pain resulting from osteoarthritis osteonecrosis . Partial knee replacements are a less invasive alternative for people who have experienced damage to one area of their knee as a result of arthritis. Total or partial knee replacement surgery is a technically demanding surgery. Minor instability, common with traditional surgical techniques, has been recognized as a main source of patient dissatisfaction and early failure. Alignment and balance are the two main requirements for clinical success in knee replacement surgery. Proper alignment requires precise surgical planning and execution, such as those that robotic techniques deliver. Correct balancing with pressure sensors results in a natural-feeling joint that functions well during recreational sports and activities. Robotics, computer-assisted surgical tools, and pressure sensor technology deliver information our surgeons need during total and partial knee replacement surgery to ensure your walking weight is distributed evenly. NYU Langone experts have been key developers of these technologies and continue to work toward advancing this field, while training fellows and visiting surgeons in the safe adoption of these innovative techniques. Robotic and computer-assisted surgeries for bone and joint conditions take place at Robotic orthopedic surgery is performed by the following doctors: Matthew Hepinstall, MD , Co-Director Morteza Meftah, MD Patrick Meere, MD, Co-Director We have locations in Manhattan, and we offer virtual appointments. 646-987-3850 We provide care during pregnancy and treatment for all gynecologic conditions. At the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause, we help women manage their health and optimize their wellbeing during the transition. Our clinicians provide treatment and support for symptoms related to menopause, as well as education about its impact on your overall health. The menopause life stage starts with perimenopause, which usually begins in your 40s but can vary. The complete transition to menopause, defined as 12 months after a final menstrual period, happens over a decade or longer. The average age of menopause is 52. At the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause, housed in the state-of-the-art NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street, a hub for women’s health and wellness, we offer comprehensive and compassionate care during the menopause transition. We also provide treatment for induced menopause, in which the ovaries stop providing estrogen due to radiation therapy, certain drug treatments, or surgical removal. The Patient Experience During perimenopause, estrogen and progesterone levels become irregular. While these hormonal changes are completely normal, they can cause symptoms that vary in intensity and duration. Before your first visit, we ask you to fill out a detailed questionnaire to help us understand your symptoms and how the transition is affecting your everyday life. We ask about your experience with a variety of signs of the menopause transition, such as period changes, hot flushes, night sweats, sleep issues, difficulty concentrating, memory lapses, bone and joint issues, bladder and vaginal concerns, and changes in sexual health. The decrease in estrogen that accompanies menopause increases the risk of certain health conditions. We provide screening and guidance to help you reduce the risk of these conditions, which include osteoporosis , and urinary and vaginal issues. Your first visit is a 45-minute consultation, held either in person or through a virtual visit. During this session, we review your symptoms, discuss treatment options, and create a customized care plan. Follow-up appointments are scheduled as needed to ensure that your symptoms have been addressed. Treatment Options and Referrals Each treatment plan is customized to your specific symptoms. Potential therapies include hormonal and nonhormonal treatments as well as complementary therapies such as lifestyle and dietary interventions. We rely on the latest scientific research regarding hormone therapy and prescribe it when it is the best treatment option, and individualize our therapies to maximize your health and wellbeing. We also offer referrals to NYU Langone specialists for issues that often accompany menopause and are more likely to occur in midlife, including bone loss, , and pelvic floor disorders. In addition, our Creating Healthy Activity and Nutrition Goals for Empowering CHANGE program explains how diet, exercise, sleep, and other lifestyle choices can help you deal with perimenopausal and menopausal symptoms. Each of its six sessions lasts 45 minutes. Our program is led by Samantha M. Dunham, MD Laurie S. Jeffers, DNP Tracey J. Fein, MD Emily Friedman, NP , who are Certified Menopause Practitioners by the North American Menopause Society. To schedule an appointment, please call We are located in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Long Island. 646-754-3106 At the Center for Fibroid Care, our doctors provide the most advanced and innovative treatments for fibroid disease. Uterine , which are noncancerous tumors, can cause heavy and prolonged periods, pelvic pain, and bladder symptoms. Fibroids can also impact sexual health and fertility. Many women experience fibroid symptoms for years, unaware that there are effective treatment options. Center for Fibroid Care Discussions Our team of experts hosts discussions on topics related to fibroids, including symptoms and treatment. Watch Our Fibroid Videos We recognize that fibroid disease can significantly affect many aspects of women’s lives. Our goal is to create an individualized care plan for each of our patients, understanding that there is no one-size-fits-all approach. We focus on your quality-of-life goals and preferences, addressing anemia and possible plans when providing you with options to minimize or remove fibroid disease. The team at the Center for Fibroid Care, located at Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street, provides personalized treatment that includes surgical and nonsurgical approaches. Our team believes in continuing to research this chronic and recurrent disease. We are conducting clinical outcome studies that look at lifestyle changes after surgery and their effects on fibroid recurrence, and the use of radiofrequency ablation and its effect on quality of life. We are also drafting best-practice scripts to help providers counsel patients effectively about fibroid disease. Our Approach to Fibroid Care We offer a multidisciplinary approach, bringing together expertise from various specialty areas, including surgeons, hematologists, interventional radiologists, obstetricians, fertility specialists, and nutritionists. We explain all treatment options, starting with medications and lifestyle choices. We also offer active surveillance for fibroid disease and follow you throughout your reproductive journey. When treatment with an interventional procedure is needed, we offer nonsurgical approaches , including radiofrequency ablation and uterine fibroid embolization to shrink fibroids, and surgical procedures , such as myomectomy and hysterectomy. Nearly all myomectomies and hysterectomies are performed by doctors who are experts in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery , which uses small incisions that result in less pain and quicker recovery time. Nonsurgical and surgical procedures all take place at NYU Langone Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates Fibroid Treatment and Fertility If you plan to become pregnant in the future, your doctor can discuss treatments for easing your symptoms, while also preserving—and in some cases improving—fertility. We can connect you with reproductive endocrinologists at the to discuss additional options, including egg freezing in vitro fertilization Schedule a Consultation We recommend all new patients schedule a telehealth consultation with our nurse practitioner, Holly O. Gorman, NP , by calling 646-754-3106 or scheduling online . At this first appointment, Mrs. Gorman talks with you about your health history, any fibroid-related symptoms, and your goals for treatment. Based on this information and your completed quality of life survey, she refers you to the appropriate specialists, who complete a full evaluation and develop an individualized treatment plan that addresses symptoms and supports your long-term goals. We now offer telehealth visits for patients who live in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Florida. Our team includes experts in gynecology, interventional radiology, nutrition, obstetrics, reproductive endocrinology, and hematology nutrition. Taraneh Shirazian Director, Center for Fibroid Care Holly O. Gorman NP Alice K. Tsai Shouk O. Mansour RD, CDE Elizabeth M. Morris Shannon M. DeVore Michelle R. Bennett Erika Banks Linda M. Nicoll ED Esra Demirel Kevin A. Espino Shadi Seraji 19 Treatment Relieves Fibroid Symptoms Patient Had for a Decade Years of Fibroid Pain Come to an End with One Procedure Fibroids: Six Symptoms You Don’t Have to Live With New Center Tackles Myths About Fibroids What to Know About Living with Uterine Fibroids Woman Has Watermelon-Sized Uterine Fibroid Removed At NYU Langone, our certified midwives guide patients through every stage of their pregnancy journey and also provide routine gynecologic care. Our certified midwives provide routine gynecologic treatment and care before, during, and after pregnancy. Meet Our Midwives What Do Midwives Do? Midwives are board-certified healthcare providers who received a graduate degree in midwifery. They provide care through healthy, uncomplicated pregnancies and can provide all standard gynecologic care. They work alongside our obstetrician–gynecologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, who provide high-risk pregnancy care and can perform surgeries such as a cesarean birth and hysterectomy. Pregnancy Care from Midwives Our midwives provide care before, during, and after pregnancy, including childbirth. Midwives support and believe in the natural, physiologic process of pregnancy, labor and birth. We view pregnancy as a time to get to know yourself and your body better and to be educated and empowered through this incredible journey. Your midwife works with you on your birth plan, helping to define your ideal childbirth experience. For some people this includes minimal intervention in the childbirth process, such as not inducing labor when not medically necessary or providing medical pain management only when desired. We offer wireless fetal monitoring so you can walk around and change positions while in labor. We also aim to make you as comfortable as possible by allowing you to eat as needed and limiting physical exams as much as possible during the process. We also support and are comfortable delivering patients in various positions such as hands and knees, squatting, etc. Our certified midwives work together to ensure all patients receive the highest level of gynecologic and pregnancy care. In pregnancy, our certified midwives provide holistic, evidence-based care and aim to make patients as comfortable as possible. They work alongside our obstetrician–gynecologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, who provide high-risk pregnancy care and can perform surgeries such as a cesarean birth and hysterectomy. Our certified midwives educate and empower women of all ages, from adolescence to those in their post-reproductive years. Midwives attend births at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn. They work in tandem with the rest of the labor and delivery team, which includes obstetricians and maternal–fetal medicine specialists, to ensure you have access to the highest level of patient care. We utilize our high-risk providers when complications arise during prenatal care and during labor and birth. If complications arise prenatally, we can continue to care for you in a collaborative manner with the high-risk team but sometimes there are complications that require us to transfer your care entirely. In the labor setting, our physician colleagues are immediately available in the case where you may need a cesarean section or operative vaginal delivery (vacuum or forceps). Gynecologic Care from Midwives Midwives also provide all routine gynecologic care for women of all ages, from adolescence to those in their postreproductive years. This includes well visits, pelvic exams, and placement of long-acting reversible contraceptives such as intrauterine devices. Midwives also diagnose and treat gynecologic conditions, provide preventive care and screenings for cancer and sexually transmitted infections. NYU Langone’s fertility specialists are leaders in the field of reproductive endocrinology, providing the latest and most innovative treatment options to help individuals and couples plan for a family, either now or in the future. Treatment starts with using the most advanced testing to evaluate reproductive health and pinpoint the cause of infertility in men women . This includes hormone and ovarian reserve testing, pelvic exam, ultrasound, testing to determine the risk of passing on a genetic condition, and sonohysterogram, which examines the health of the fallopian tubes. Excellence in Fertility Preservation We are leaders in fertility preservation, which allows both eggs and embryos to be stored for future use, and in vitro fertilization, which helps people who have had difficulty conceiving through traditional methods achieve a healthy pregnancy. NYU Langone embryologists ensure the health and safety of sperm, eggs, and embryos before in vitro fertilization. We pioneered preimplantation genetic diagnosis and screening, which looks for abnormalities in an embryo that could affect development. Preimplantation genetic testing reduces the risk of miscarriage and increases the chance of a successful pregnancy. For people who lack viable eggs or sperm or who cannot carry a pregnancy, we offer several treatment options, including donor eggs, donor sperm, and gestational carriers. These treatment options can assist lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer, or questioning (LGBTQ+) individuals or couples achieve their goal of starting or expanding their families. Each person’s circumstance is unique, and we work with you to determine the fertility treatment path best suited to your needs. This includes women who wish to freeze eggs for use later in life, perhaps because they are receiving treatment for cancer or other conditions that can affect fertility. Fertility treatment is available at the NYU Langone Fertility Center—NoMad , which has locations in Brooklyn and on Long Island. NYU Langone’s doctors are leaders in the treatment of gynecologic cancer and offer the most sophisticated diagnostic tools and advanced surgical approaches to achieve the best outcomes. , our gynecologic oncologists specialize in robotic-assisted surgery, minimally invasive surgery, and complex surgical plans to remove more advanced cancers. We also specialize in surgery that removes cancer while preserving a woman’s fertility. Dr. Leslie R. Boyd is a gynecologic oncologist who provides treatment for cancers of the reproductive tract, including endometrial, ovarian, and cervical cancer. Our doctors work with imaging specialists, genetic counselors, reproductive medicine specialists, radiation oncologists, and rehabilitation specialists to care for women with gynecologic cancers, including the following: , also called uterine cancer gestational trophoblastic neoplasia, a rarely occurring tumor that can form in the uterus during pregnancy ovarian and fallopian tube cancer peritoneal cancer, which develops in a thin layer of tissue lining the inside of the abdomen vaginal cancer vulvar cancer Advanced Approaches to Diagnosis We use the latest imaging technology and diagnostic testing to help guide our surgical, medical, and radiation therapy plans. We have dedicated gynecologic radiologists reading our ; they image the ovaries and fallopian tubes, cervix, uterus, and other areas of the pelvis to find signs of gynecologic cancer. Our pathologists are highly skilled at detecting precancerous and cancerous changes in biopsy tissue and can help determine the risk of a tumor growing and spreading. This information guides personalized treatment plans for each patient. Sophisticated Surgical Care and Treatment Expertise Our gynecologic oncologists are experts in minimally invasive surgery, including robotic-assisted procedures , to remove uterine, ovarian, fallopian, and peritoneal tumors, and some cervical cancers. Robotic-assisted surgery typically results in smaller scars, less postoperative bleeding, and a shorter healing time. Fertility-sparing surgery and surgical procedures to reduce the risk of some gynecologic cancers are also offered by our experts. Our gynecologic oncologists may prescribe chemotherapy and other medications as part of an overall treatment plan. Highly targeted radiation therapy that destroys cancer cells and minimizes treatment side effects may also be beneficial, depending on the type of cancer. Screening, Prevention, and Risk-Reduction Strategies Our doctors offer screening programs for some forms of gynecologic cancer to help diagnose the condition early, when treatment is most effective. We also provide prevention and risk-reduction strategies to help deter the development of cancer. We offer genetic testing and counseling to help women understand their risk of developing ovarian cancer. Our gynecologic oncologists and genetic counselors are available to guide women through their ovarian cancer screening risk-reduction options screening programs prevention strategies , and treatments for precancerous conditions of the cervix are also available. Our gynecologic oncologists refer patients to services such as pelvic rehabilitation and occupational and physical therapy, during and after treatment, to help maintain or regain muscle tone and strength. Palliative care specialists, massage and Reiki therapists, acupuncturists, and nutritionists can also help people feel better during and after treatment. One-on-one psychological counseling and support groups are also available. Access to Clinical Trials Our patients have access to at Perlmutter Cancer Center. We are one of the leading clinical trial teams in the country for gynecologic cancers. We offer numerous studies of ovarian, endometrial, and cervical cancer treatments, including new targeted medications. We are also a leader in clinical trials for ovarian cancer prevention in women who are at high risk to develop cancer. From your first prenatal visit to follow-up care after delivery, NYU Langone’s obstetricians and midwives are committed to providing the safest patient-centered and childbirth experience for you and your baby, while also providing emotional and psychological support through this eventful time in your life. After childbirth, babies and new parents room together until both can be discharged safely, which is a minimum of 24 hours after delivery. Each year, more than 15,000 babies are born at . We are certified by The Joint Commission for our excellence in advanced perinatal care, which is the period prior, during, and after childbirth. In addition, our hospitals have achieved Baby-Friendly status in recognition of our commitment to breastfeeding and supporting parent–baby bonding after birth. Prenatal Care Your obstetrician or midwife will help you prepare for pregnancy by recommending lifestyle changes, such as encouraging exercise and a healthy diet, helping you quit smoking , and screening for sexually transmitted diseases and genetic conditions. We also review how certain health conditions, including lupus , and some orthopedic conditions, could affect pregnancy, and provide referrals to specialists as needed. If you have been having difficulty conceiving, we can refer you to our fertility experts During pregnancy, our team monitors your and your baby’s health through regular office visits and diagnostic testing. This includes ultrasound exams and fetal monitoring to track your baby’s growth and development, and genetic testing for conditions that could affect the pregnancy. To help you prepare for your baby, we offer parent education classes and support groups on pregnancy; childbirth; breastfeeding; and newborn, infant, and toddler parenting. We can also connect you with social work services as needed. Certain preexisting conditions or complications that develop during pregnancy can require specialized medical care. NYU Langone’s are obstetrician–gynecologists with advanced training in managing the health and wellbeing of the mother and baby during a high-risk pregnancy. We provide advanced fetal imaging that detects congenital defects, including , cleft lip and palate, kidney abnormalities, and placenta abnormalities. Referral to our is available as appropriate. We encourage all expectant patients to develop a birth plan , which outlines their preferences for labor and delivery, including who will accompany you during labor, how you want to manage pain, and any newborn care requests. Our goal is to help you have the best possible birth experience in the safest environment. Our skilled labor and delivery teams include highly experienced physicians who serve as patient safety officers, supporting your obstetrician or midwife by providing around-the-clock monitoring of all people in labor to ensure the safest deliveries and best outcomes. Infants who need the most advanced care are brought to the NICU at Tisch Hospital , which is a state-designated Regional Perinatal Center equipped to provide the highest level of newborn care. Care for babies born prematurely or with low birth weight is also provided at the Childbirth takes place in our labor and delivery suites, and doulas and other childbirth partners are invited to join in accordance with our . Our anesthesiologists are available at all times to provide several options for pain relief . These include medications that can be delivered through an IV in your arm or spinal epidural anesthesia, as well as relaxation techniques such as massage and taking a shower. We guide women through vaginal birth, and perform cesarean birth when medically necessary. Our skilled labor and delivery teams can also support vaginal birth after cesarean section (VBAC) delivery. We encourage skin-to-skin contact immediately after birth, and our lactation consultants provide breastfeeding or chestfeeding education and support. Postnatal Care After delivery, your baby stays in your room with you to encourage parent–baby bonding. We limit your hospital stay so that you can go home as soon as is medically safe for you and your baby, which is at a minimum 24 hours after delivery. A follow-up visit with your doctor or midwife is then scheduled for several weeks after delivery. If you experience symptoms of postpartum depression, including irritability, anxiety, and difficulty bonding with your baby, we can refer you to mental health experts who can help. At NYU Langone, we believe all our patients deserve access to safe, high-quality reproductive healthcare. Our providers offer compassionate and nonjudgmental counseling and care for people facing decisions about their family building and reproductive health, including abortion services, abnormal early pregnancy and miscarriage management, and birth control for patients with complicated medical issues or poor experiences with birth control in the past. To make an appointment with one of our family planning doctors, call , or contact one of our providers of abortion services directly. Schedule Online In all these circumstances and more, our family planning team is ready to provide supportive, skilled reproductive healthcare. Our team includes doctors who are double board-certified in both obstetrics and gynecology and complex family planning. No matter what your reproductive health goals may be, we are ready to help you understand all of your options and to provide confidential, empathetic, and evidence-based care. Abortion Care Our clinicians are committed to providing safe and effective abortion care. We offer both medication and procedural abortions; for those choosing procedural abortions, we also offer a range of safe anesthesia options. Our goal is to provide empathetic, patient-centered medical care that prioritizes each person’s needs. During their appointment, patients review their medical history with a provider, have a brief, basic ultrasound, and receive thorough counseling on their options for abortion care. We offer medication abortion through 11 weeks of pregnancy. Patients who choose a medication abortion will receive the medications during the same clinic appointment, and will also receive detailed instructions from the provider about how to use the medications. After a medication abortion, patients have a follow-up appointment within two weeks, either in the clinic or via a video doctor visit A procedural abortion—also called a uterine aspiration, suction aspiration, dilation and curettage, or dilation and evacuation—is offered for patients through 24 weeks of pregnancy. Through 10 weeks