the challenge that if steroids are required for a prolonged period, the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy can be reduced. Frequent communication among care teams is crucial for proper treatment planning. Neuroimmuno-Oncology: The Leading Edge What other conditions are you focusing on in the areas of neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology? A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system. While current cancer-directed immunotherapies have proven to successfully treat many cancers, these treatments are not very effective in primary brain tumors. I’m proud to be part of the amazing team at the , and with their support we are exploring different ways to target the immune system to treat glioblastoma and other brain tumors. Currently, our neuro-oncology program is participating on a large clinical trial offering a vaccine against glioblastoma cell components . Additional approaches to use the immune system in the treatment of these aggressive tumors will be available at NYU Langone in the near future. Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and neurology and interim director of the neuro-oncology program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She specializes in the treatment of brain and spine tumors as well as complications that arise from cancer immunotherapy and the immune system’s response to cancer. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD, and John G. Golfinos, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , previously served as president of the North American Skull Base Society (NASBS). In February 2022 at the society’s 31st annual meeting , Dr. Golfinos co-led a discussion on the critical importance of teamwork in skull base surgery with , chair of the Department of Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery. Here, Drs. Golfinos and Roland discuss some of the insights and experiences they shared at the annual meeting. Dr. Golfinos, as president of the NASBS, you’re tasked with determining the focus of the annual meeting. Why did you choose teamwork as a content area this year? Dr. Golfinos: Skull base surgery is uniquely challenging, so anything that makes it better and easier is a win. The goal is always the best possible outcomes for our patients. For nearly 30 years, Dr. Roland and I have collaborated for the sake of our patients, and we’ve seen that teamwork is more than a buzzword—it is a focused effort that has helped us consistently raise that bar. NASBS represents a diverse group of specialties—from neurosurgeons and ENT surgeons to oncologists, rhinologists, and head and neck specialists—so teamwork is a fitting topic to highlight. With so many specialists involved in skull base surgery, one might expect teamwork to “just happen” naturally. It does not. There are surgeons who approach things by themselves, only in certain ways, believing they don’t need anybody else. They may not grasp the value of a well-integrated team that communicates freely. Dr. Golfinos and I want to highlight how outcomes can be measurably improved when you prioritize teamwork. In our model, every member of the team is as important as another. “There are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link.” Connecting Teamwork and Outcomes Can you share specific examples of the ways teamwork has contributed to better outcomes? Dr. Golfinos : It wasn’t long ago when a patient with a large acoustic neuroma might expect to live with hearing loss and facial paralysis. That’s rare these days, because our fields—neurosurgery and otolaryngology—have come together to solve these problems. We can offer solutions to improve hearing like cochlear implants and auditory brain stem implants. When you involve everyone from audiologists and nurses to anesthesiologists and neurology specialists, you can prevent hearing loss or facial nerve dysfunction. Dr. Roland : At NYU Langone Health, we’ve worked with the same scrub nurses and circulating nurses for nearly 20 years. We have superb physiologic monitoring capacity for real-time feedback during surgery. That seamlessness is important—otherwise, an operation will take twice as long. They know what we need. And, in a conscious fashion, we’ve empowered them to speak up and say, “Why aren’t you using this? Doctor, there might be an issue. Or, are you going to use this?” This is not always how it is done. One of our former NYU Langone Health fellows recently brought her team from another institution to watch us perform a pediatric brain stem implant, because she wanted them to observe how we implement teamwork to carefully orchestrate the necessary sequence of events. How has technology made teamwork easier? : Certainly, the ability to constantly communicate and see things digitally allows us to plan more readily. We can instantly see the anatomy we’re working with and rehearse the approach. The days are gone when someone would have to carry large films from my office to Dr. Roland’s office for an hour-long meeting. Now we collaborate digitally on surgical planning. That level of communication between a neurosurgeon and a neurotologist couldn’t have happened before. In the operating room, we have machine learning that can tell us histologically whether something is cancerous right away, which facilitates more real-time team planning. Advanced monitoring is another input allowing the team to determine how to rescue the nerves held hostage by a given tumor. Sharing Lessons With Peers What will be some of your key messages for the annual meeting? : We’ll present several scenarios that illustrate the concept of team. And, we plan to bring in a very compelling speaker from outside the world of medicine. Whether in surgery or other high-pressure fields like the military, there are common guideposts fundamental to helping a team succeed—for example, that a team is only as strong as its weakest link. And, when you combine unique talents, you end up with greater talent than the sum of each individual. Another is that everyone must leave their ego at the door and keep their mind open to feedback. “An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission.” : An effective team will rehearse every aspect of a surgery to determine pacing—like a special ops mission. And, again, it’s important to empower everyone on the team, from scrub nurses to monitoring staff. Everyone must be free to speak up if something doesn’t seem right. Those have been important aspects of our work in building a top skull base surgery program. We hope they will encourage other surgical teams to collaborate toward better outcomes. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Metastases Incidence in NSCLC Post-Therapy In a study of metastases incidence in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) post-therapy, median time to new brain metastases off systemic therapy was 16 months, and no additional new tumors were found 22 months after patients stopped therapy. ADAPTED FROM: Neurooncol Adv 2021;3(Suppl 3):iii22. The probability of developing an additional new tumor after 6 months was 26 percent, after 12 months was 40 percent, and after 18 months was 53 percent. ADAPTED FROM: Patients with mutations in RAS or RTK pathways (e.g., KRAS and EGFR) were more likely to develop new tumors. Patients who discontinued therapy due to intolerance or progression of the disease were also more likely to develop new tumors. ADAPTED FROM: A recent study conducted at NYU Langone Health, , has revealed that the rate of new brain metastases from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients off systemic therapy decreases over time and is uncommon two years after discontinuation of systemic cancer therapy. In addition, the researchers found that patients who had RAS or receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) pathway mutations or who stopped treatment due to adverse events had a higher rate of developing new metastases. The findings surprised the research team, led by Dennis London, MD , a resident in neurosurgery at NYU Langone. “Patients who discontinued therapy due to a treatment response had a median time to new brain metastases of 16 months—much longer than we expected,” says Dr. London. He further explained that these data suggest that the RAS pathway is an aggressive driver of brain metastases in NSCLC, but additional studies with larger sample sizes will be needed to validate this hypothesis. Based on these findings, Dr. London recommended that oncologists use caution when choosing to discontinue therapy in patients with RAS pathway mutations. “These data are very encouraging for lung cancer patients with brain metastases,” Dr. London explains. “Achieving long-term neurological control of brain metastases is possible after treatment with new systemic therapies.” “This is the first study to report the incidence of new brain tumors for patients who can stop their cancer therapy,” says , a professor of neurosurgery and radiation oncology. “The good news is that for some patients, over years of assessment, new brain tumors were uncommon.” Dennis London, MD, is a neurosurgery resident. His research interests include understanding the function of neural circuitry in action planning and decision-making and applying this knowledge to the treatment of neurologic diseases through neuromodulation; stereotactic and functional neurosurgery; neuro-oncology; and data science. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy L-R: Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant; surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm; surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. A Rare, Yet Catastrophic Injury A pediatric patient with Erb’s palsy experienced a remarkable recovery after specialists at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform early microsurgical reconstruction and intensive occupational therapy. The patient first presented to the pediatric orthopedic hand surgery clinic at for evaluation of her right upper extremity by Andrew E. Price, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “Brachial plexus birth injuries require a team of highly specialized experts, including surgeons and occupational therapists,” says Dr. Price. “After birth, these injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” “These injuries are usually treated conservatively using custom splints, electrical stimulation, and occupational therapy—we’re one of the few centers capable of doing all three.” Despite conservative management, the patient failed to regain biceps function at 6 months of age. The best treatment was determined to be brachial plexus neurolysis with double fascicular nerve transfer. Dr. Price, Dr. Hacquebord, and their team also injected botulinum toxin into several antagonist muscle groups during the procedure to improve shoulder and elbow motion. “The prognosis of Erb’s palsy depends on several factors including the extent of the injury, size and severity of the post-ganglion tears, speed of recovery, and quality of initial treatment,” says pediatric occupational therapist Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L . “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” “While surgical repair is not always needed, in the right setting it will enable better functional outcomes, especially when combined with occupational therapy.” Upon discharge, the patient continued outpatient rehabilitation with . Two years after surgery, the patient is doing extremely well, with sustained improvements in several clinical and functional outcomes. Preoperative Diagnosis: Injury of Right Brachial Plexus Surgeon’s view of a large neuroma in the neck of an infant. The patient’s right upper extremity was held with shoulder internally rotated, elbow extended, wrist flexed, and forearm pronated. She demonstrated excellent triceps strength but had no biceps function. Moreover, she did not exhibit shoulder elevation or active wrist extension. The patient was referred for occupational therapy and splinting, with surgery ultimately deemed necessary. A Successful Surgery Surgeon’s view while identifying nerves in the patient’s arm. Upon exploration of the right brachial plexus, the C6 nerve was found to have significant scarring and lack of stimulus conduction. There was contractility of the deltoid with stimulation at 2 mA of C5 proximally, but no contractility with stimulation of C6. The team proceeded with the procedure that included neurolysis of the brachial plexus and double fascicular nerve transfer. Long-Term Outpatient Rehabilitation Surgeon’s view of nerves in the patient’s arm after transfer. At 2-year follow-up, the patient demonstrated significant improvement. She had regained shoulder elevation to above 130 degrees, full passive shoulder external rotation, negative clarion, active elbow flexion, supination to 10 degrees, no elbow flexion contracture, and some active extension of the wrist. Orthopedic Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Andrew E. Price, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. His research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, neuromuscular conditions, and pediatric trauma. Pediatric Occupational Therapy Lori B. Ragni, MS, OTR/L, is supervisor of pediatric occupational therapy at Rusk Rehabilitation. Her research and clinical interests include brachial plexus birth injuries, outcomes research, aquatic therapy, and the use of modified constraint-induced movement therapy. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Surgeon’s view using a need arthroscope (top row) versus a conventional arthroscope (bottom row) for evaluation of carpal pathology. A study of 20 patients led by NYU Langone Health researchers affirms that needle arthroscopy matches the diagnostic accuracy of conventional wrist arthroscopy. The study was presented at a recent meeting of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand. “There was never a case where we couldn’t see everything we needed to see, which was a surprising finding,” says orthopedic surgeon and study lead author Nader Paksima, DO, MPH . “I thought that was going to be one of the limitations of the needle scope when we first started out the study.” Although the image quality of the smaller scope is marginally lower, Dr. Paksima says it still provides full diagnostic capabilities. “Once you get used to it, and our study proves it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope,” he says. “Once you get used to it, you can see everything that you can see with the big camera. We didn’t miss anything with the needle scope.” The smaller scope, in fact, provides better access to the mid-carpal joint and better visualization of the scapho-trapezium-trapezoid and carpometacarpal joints. “Cartilage damage to the mid-carpal joint is minimized by the needle scope because it’s much smaller and much easier to insert than the standard arthroscope,” he adds. Setting Up a Comparison Since the 1980s, surgeons have used a 2.7-mm wrist arthroscope to evaluate, diagnose, and treat a range of carpal pathologies, especially ligament and cartilage injuries not easily seen on X-ray. Wrist arthroscopy offers direct visualization of the joint surface, articular cartilage, ligaments, and any inflammation such as synovitis. The newer 1.9-mm needle arthroscope with a flexible tip provides an even less invasive option, yet until this study, it had not been specifically assessed for its carpal pathology evaluation and diagnostic capabilities as compared to conventional arthroscopy. For the new study, Dr. Paksima and colleagues at NYU Langone’s used the needle arthroscope to evaluate each patient for synovitis, cartilage damage, and integrity of the volar, scapholunate, and lunotriquetral ligaments, as well as the triangular fibrocartilage complex. After completing a survey regarding the visualization and diagnosis, the surgeons performed a conventional wrist arthroscopy, followed by a second survey to compare the two techniques. As part of the evaluation, they also compared how well the scopes visualized ten landmarks within the wrist joint. A Less Invasive Alternative Because the bigger camera on the 2.7-mm scope provides a somewhat larger and better picture, switching to the smaller camera requires an adjustment period, Dr. Paksima says. The typical 30-degree angled view afforded by a standard arthroscope allows surgeons to rotate the camera and see a relatively large surface area. By contrast, the needle scope provides an end-on view, akin to looking through a telescope. The needle scope’s flexible tip, however, allows for easy manipulation of the camera to widen the field of view and the surgeons reported no difference in the ease of use. “It works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room.” “I was concerned that with an end-on view, I wouldn’t be able to look around the corner within joints,” Dr. Paksima says. “What we found in our study was that we were able to see everything, even with a needle scope, and that may have to do with the flexibility of the tip because it can bend around things.” Based on the encouraging results, Dr. Paksima has switched to using the needle arthroscope on its own for patients who present with carpal pathologies. “What’s exciting is that it works very well, and it’s reliable; in the future, I imagine doing the needle scope in a less invasive setting like an office or a procedure room,” he says. For a ligament sprain, for example, he could take a look under local anesthetic, make a diagnosis, and provide treatment—all in the same setting. “I’m not doing that yet, but that’s what I’m working toward,” he says. Hand and Wrist Surgery Nader Paksima, DO, MPH, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery. He specializes in hand and wrist surgery and in researching nerve injuries and wrist fractures. Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Scott Rickert, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the . Also an associate professor of otolaryngology, pediatrics, and plastic surgery, his subspecialty interests include conditions affecting the pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing. Dr. Rickert was recently elected president of the Aerodigestive Society , a multidisciplinary group committed to advancing research, clinical care, and public health for patients with complex aerodigestive disease. Here, he discusses emerging topics in diagnosis and treatment, and the rewards and challenges of treating children with highly complex cases. The Aerodigestive Center treats patients with a combination of multiple and interrelated airway conditions. As an otolaryngologist, what drew you to treating these complex pediatric cases? Dr. Rickert: I came to pediatric otolaryngology prepared to be involved in all procedures but became focused on the aerodigestive kids because they’re some of the patients that need the most help. They are often undertreated and kept at their baseline without comprehensive care. They’re also among the most interesting patients to me. A lot of these kids have chronic conditions, so you have long-lasting relationships with them. We see many of our patients become young adults. Helping them thrive not only impacts their lives, but it has a big impact on their families and their families’ lives. Coordinating Complex Care Aerodigestive care is, by definition, a multispecialty model. What are some of the benefits and challenges of this in day-to-day medical practice? Aerodigestive cases require close coordination. Some of these patients are just airway patients and some are primarily GI. The multiple areas of concern allow for cross-pollination of ideas and collaboration. Eighty percent of these patients have need for a speech or voice therapist, so it’s a great benefit to have that perspective. Our team holds weekly care meetings in the ENT office, where all our equipment is located. Despite a potential financial challenge to maintaining a central location—how can you have four doctors in one place when you could have them in different offices?—when you evaluate the model and all the care these patients get, it’s actually quite efficient to have all the doctors together. And it’s better for the kids and their families. Learning from Other Programs You’ve just been elected president of the Aerodigestive Society. What are some of your objectives for that group? The society started out about 10 years ago to integrate all the different programs in the United States for sharing information, conducting multi-institutional research, and establishing care guidelines. “I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them.” As president, I’ve been trying to encourage everyone around the country to promote multidisciplinary care at their institutions, and if that’s not possible, to look to their community or to others across the country who can support them. For instance, one hospital may not have pediatric GI, but they may collaborate with another hospital in their area that does. We have a great perspective on how to build a team here in New York with our large volume, but it’s interesting to see how people in Cincinnati, or Argentina, are modeling aerodigestive care. Always, when you have complex cases, it’s helpful to talk with other people who treat similar cases to see whether their approaches are different or better. COVID-19 has had many implications for patients who need complex care . We’ve been trying to keep aerodigestive care in the forefront. Imaging Airway Dynamics Are there any new equipment or therapeutic innovations on the horizon? We’ve already been using cutting-edge imaging to understand what’s going on in the lungs and video swallow tests to confirm what a speech/language pathologist is seeing. Today, we are doing sleep endoscopies because a lot of these kids have sleep and breathing problems. It’s a new, innovative technique to understand what their airway does when they’re sleeping. We are developing simulation software to understand flow dynamics in the airway, not only in breathing, but also swallowing. Plus, we are creating 3D models of the airway using 3D printing. This allows us to plan out a surgery virtually so when we’re doing it in real life, we can be more efficient. We’re in the planning stages of some studies to better understand cough. And of course, we’re always striving to innovate care in prescribing medicines for those kids who have chronic issues. Rewards of Collaboration What would you say to get a medical trainee interested in this field? It’s a wonderful place to be because of the collaborative nature of the work. We’re sharing all the time. If you want to be involved, whether you’re a pulmonologist, a GI specialist, or an ENT, there’s a small dynamic group that’s always looking forward. Not only does this impact your patients, but anything that’s being done locally impacts kids across the country. This is what you go into medicine for—to make a difference in people’s lives! Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Single-cell RNA sequencing of young and aged mouse hindlimbs points to an abnormal increase in Notch signaling in skeletal stem cells as playing a central role in age-related bone loss, according to a recent report in Bone Research Findings from the study suggest that interfering with the signaling pathway by targeting a protein called Ebf3/EBF3 has therapeutic potential in preserving skeletal integrity and preventing deterioration. “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration.” “Our findings reveal that Notch in skeletal stem cells becomes abnormal with age and that blocking it prevents age-related skeletal degeneration,” says senior study author , an orthopedic surgeon at NYU Langone Health. The Bone-to-Fat Shift Bone is among the tissues that keep self-renewing pools of stem cells, called skeletal stem and progenitor cells (SSCPs), on hand into adulthood. SSCPs can mature into replacement cells that maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, with maturation following one of two paths: new bone-making cells called osteoblasts or fat-making cells called adipocytes. Past studies have shown a notable, gradual shift in the fate of SSCPs during aging. Instead of becoming osteoblasts, there is a tendency toward differentiation into adipocytes as SSCPs age. This alteration in cell fate leads to several consequences, including bone loss and increased adipose tissue within the bone marrow. Consequently, bones become weaker and more vulnerable to fractures. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential.” Currently, there are no therapeutics to rescue or maintain the bone-making function in aging SSPCs. Clarifying the mechanisms that trigger the bone-to-fat shift may serve to “prolong healthspan, preserve skeletal integrity, and enhance the efficiency of fracture healing in the aging population,” write the study authors. Notch Activity and Stem Cell Fate As reported in the new study, increased Notch pathway activity appears to shift SSCPs toward the fate that increases fatty degeneration of bone marrow. When the authors genetically engineered mice to lack Nicastrin, a core part of the Notch signaling pathway, SCCPs were redirected toward differentiation into osteoclasts, increasing bone formation “even beyond that of young mice,” write the authors. Other effects included a specific increase in trabecular bone formation, reduction in bone marrow adiposity, and enhanced regeneration, which the authors posit could curtail skeletal degeneration. Identifying a Potential Therapeutic Target Notably, Notch signaling, woven as it is into so many cellular pathways, is not a good target for drug therapy, Dr. Leucht stresses. Instead, his team identified Ebf3 as a promising potential therapeutic target, confirming that the transcription factor carries the Notch signal forward and is relatively restricted to being made in skeletal stem cells. “The reprogramming of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people has profound therapeutic potential. In future studies we hope to confirm the value of Ebf3 as a drug target in preventing osteoporosis,” says Dr. Leucht. Notch signaling is important to the development of many tissues in the womb but is then suppressed to enable healthy adult tissue function, Dr. Leucht adds. Diseases like cancer—and the aging process—are linked to the abnormal reactivation of developmental processes, where the genetic systems (heterochromatin) that block access to certain genes break down. Thus, the current study’s finding that Notch-related genes were abnormally upregulated could reveal disease mechanisms behind forms of deterioration seen in other tissues and organs. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair To study pain management, 99 patients participated in a trial evaluating buccal absorption of cannabidiol (CBD) for pain control following shoulder arthroscopy. Patients in the experimental group received CBD tablets 3 times a day for 14 days. Patients in the control group received placebo tablets, as well as 5/325 mg oxycodone/acetaminophen to be taken as needed, with instructions to eliminate as soon as possible. After rotator cuff repair, patients receiving CBD reported significant improvements compared to those receiving placebo. On postoperative day 1, patients receiving CBD reported better pain control levels, and on postoperative days 1 and 2 reported higher satisfaction with pain management. Patients receiving CBD outperformed placebo at all postoperative time points for pain and satisfaction, although not statistically significant, and no significant differences in opioid consumption were observed between the two groups. Using the visual analog scale for pain scores, on day 1, patients receiving placebo scored 5.7, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 5.1 and 3.9, respectively. On day 2, patients receiving placebo scored 5.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD both scored 4.7. On day 14, patients receiving placebo scored 2.3, whereas patients receiving 25 mg or 50 mg CBD scored 2.0 and 1.1, respectively. Cannabidiol (CBD) significantly improves pain control and patient satisfaction in the immediate postoperative period after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a recent study in The American Journal of Sports Medicine . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also offers preliminary evidence that higher CBD doses may yield better outcomes. “CBD could be a powerful adjunct in postoperative care for patients with significant pain,” says , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program . Dr. Alaia is first author on the clinical study—one of the very first of its kind. “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery.” “This allows patients to have alternative treatments for pain management after something as painful as a rotator cuff surgery,” says study co-author , a professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. “It’s all about trying to figure out how we can manage pain in a complete way.” Participants in the double-blind trial were randomly assigned to receive oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on their body weight) taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos that were identical in taste and appearance. All study participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take if needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in patients receiving CBD than in those taking the placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher among those receiving CBD on postoperative days one and two. Opioid consumption remained low in both groups, the study found. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction than those receiving 25 mg, a finding that the group is investigating in follow-up studies. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme.” A companion study found no negative impact of the CBD on the patients’ ability to heal after their rotator cuff repairs. A separate analysis of sports medicine orthopedic providers’ perceptions, though, revealed the need for more education on the effectiveness, potential applications, and safety profile of CBD. To better understand the drug’s potential effect in alleviating chronic pain, the researchers are now conducting a randomized, controlled trial of 50 mg of CBD on roughly 100 patients with moderate knee osteoarthritis. “Surgeons and other physicians need to start at least considering cannabidiol as part of a multimodal pain management scheme,” Dr. Alaia says. Disclosures: Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, Bodycad, and Arthrex. Dr. Jazrawi receives research support from Arthrex, Smith and Nephew and Depuy Mitek. He is on the medical advisory board for Lazurite. Michael J. Alaia, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and the co-director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. He specializes in sports medicine, joint preservation, and complex arthroscopic and open reconstruction of the knee and shoulder. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Renee L. Williams, MD. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Many endoscopists suffer work-related musculoskeletal injuries, beginning as early as fellowship training . To highlight this issue and prevent injuries that can interfere with an endoscopists’ career, a core curriculum for endoscopy ergonomics was recently published by the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE). Renee L. Williams, MD , a co-author of the new curriculum and member of the ASGE training committee, says that weaving an awareness of ergonomic practices into early career training is key to their successful adoption and the development of injury-preventing muscle memory. “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures,” Dr. Williams says. “I always tell trainees, ‘If your hand is hurting after doing a few procedures, you may be doing something wrong and you need to change your technique.’” “It’s important to let trainees know that endoscopy-related injuries are relatively common, and they can affect your ability in the future to continue doing procedures.” Ergonomic Tips and Tricks Many of the skills or devices outlined in the new curriculum relate to making the workspace ergonomically sound. Dr. Williams stresses that monitors, which are commonly fixed to the wall, should ideally be adjustable so that users of varying heights can achieve a neutral body posture and reduce strain on their neck. In addition, cushioned floor mats are recommended to decrease strain while standing during procedures. Proper endoscopy technique is also a focus of the curriculum, including the “cigar-rolling” approach, which relies on the thumb and fingers to steer the endoscope rather than the wrist. “Use of a cigar-rolling technique to achieve torque is preferred as opposed to a fist grip, which can cause excessive angulation of the wrist joints,” wrote the authors.  “It’s not so much about speed,” Dr. Williams adds. “It’s about technique and making sure that you’re performing the procedure in a way that you’re not hurting yourself.” A newer tool—the angulation dial adapter—is recommended to better accommodate smaller hand sizes. “There are more female gastroenterologists on the horizon, and they may have smaller hands and maybe different heights,” Dr. Williams says. “You need to adapt this instrument, cause it’s not a one-size-fits-all.” The authors also point to the importance of support from institutional leadership to integrate ergonomics training and best practices system-wide to ensure their ultimate success. Making it a Habit With curriculum development being a main focus of the ASGE training committee, Dr. Williams says the group is always considering emerging topics that will be important to the next generation of endoscopists, including ergonomics. “I’ve known colleagues who have had minor injuries, where they just have some pain. But I’ve also had a few colleagues have surgery based on work-related injuries,” Dr. Williams says. For this reason, many endoscopists, including Dr. Williams, have own-occupation disability insurance based on their ability to perform endoscopy. Physicians should consult with the appropriate advisors to determine whether a similar policy would benefit their practice. When teaching fellows, Dr. Williams says she may pause to demonstrate or correct proper ergonomic techniques and encourages other mentors to do the same. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching,” she says. “While discussing the theory behind ergonomic technique and showing illustrations in lecture format is important, it should really be incorporated into everyday teaching” Gastroenterology, Endoscopy Renee L. Williams, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Medicine, where she serves as associate chair for health equity and Director of the Saul J. Farber, MD, Program in Health Equity. Within gastroenterology, her interests include health disparities in colorectal cancer screening and medical education. Steering Precision Radiation Oncology into a New Era of Collaboration In pursuit of a shared vision for precision cancer treatment, researchers harness innovation in imaging and radiotherapy. Presenters at the 2023 ASCO Annual Meeting Our oncologists join international colleagues in Chicago, June 2–6. Drug Combination May Skirt Venetoclax Resistance Preclinical studies reveal mitophagy to be a key mechanism of BH3 mimetic resistance, marking a new target in AML. Presenters at the 2023 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Orlando, Florida, April 14–19. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Illustration depicting four possible nerve connections utilized in the new multigraft facial reanimation approach. IMAGE: Andrew Lee, MD, artist. A Multiplex Approach to Facial Reanimation For patients with partial or total facial paralysis, surgeons at NYU Langone Health have developed a new approach to facial reanimation. The approach connects distal branches of the facial nerve to multiple local and regional nerves to improve segmented movement. Traditionally, either the main trunk or a single division of the facial nerve is