Diseases 1. Healthy Food Initiative The Healthy Food Initiative is an evidence informed intervention that aims to increase food security in Sunset Park, Brooklyn and surrounding communities by distributing emergency food through our food pantry and by assisting community members in accessing benefits and resources to reduce economic strain. In addition to decreasing food insecurity, the initiative also supports the consumption of healthy food by providing information about nutrition and enrolling people in programs that incentivize the purchase of healthy foods, such as New York City’s Health Bucks and Get the Good Stuff Now. The initiative includes emergency food assistance, screening and case management, community education, and a community wide coalition of food systems stakeholders. Emergency Food Pantry: The Family Health Centers (FHC) at NYU Langone’s food pantry program, The Table, is part of a continuum of nutrition focused FHC services designed to improve long range health outcomes for Brooklyn residents, including services for obesity prevention and reduction, the mitigation of food insecurity, and nutrition education to help residents prevent or manage diabetes and other long term health conditions. Food insecurity, The Table’s focus, is detrimental to both mental and physical health and can lead to poor developmental and educational outcomes. The Table offers emergency food relief on a weekly basis in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, providing access to shelf stable staples and fresh fruits and vegetables to anyone who needs food. There are no income eligibility requirements. The Table is grounded in a client choice model, which is similar to shopping in a grocery store, enabling clients to choose items that are the best fit for their needs and preferences. The client choice model improves diet quality outcomes and self sufficiency, as opposed to more traditional program models. The Table experienced a increase in demand during the peak of the pandemic and transitioned to a hybrid, outdoor grab and go model to ensure safety and meet the 41 increased demand for emergency food. The program will continue to assess opportunities to return to the client choice model in Year 1 of the upcoming Community Service Plan. There is promising evidence that food pantries and food banks that use healthy food initiatives to increase fruit and vegetable consumption improve diet quality and increase food security for clients more than traditional food pantries. Strong partnerships enable The Table to provide local, fresh food and are a testament to local businesses’ commitment to the community. The Table has collaborated with various small businesses such as Baked in Brooklyn, H & L Bagels, Sam's Bagels, Bagel Villa, and 3 Guys From Brooklyn to provide freshly baked bread directly to pantry clients. The Table also has a sustained relationship with The Brooklyn Grange, an urban rooftop farm located in Sunset Park that provides hand picked locally grown organic produce. The Table and Brooklyn Grange work together to tailor the crops to meet the needs and preferences of the various cultural groups served. Through this partnership, the Brooklyn Grange provides The Table with a bountiful standing order of culturally specific market crops that are selected based on community feedback. In partnership with NYU’s Center for the Study of Asian American Health, The Table’s emergency food packages include culturally tailored recipes and meal preparation tips (in English, Chinese, and Spanish, the dominant languages spoken by area residents). Periodic cooking demonstrations are also offered to increase community members’ comfort in preparing foods with ingredients that are provided through the pantry. The program addresses immediate food needs and also helps to alleviate sustained exposure to food insecurity by connecting community residents to services. The Table is located at the Family Health Centers’ Family Support Center to support ease of access to case management and other family services offered at the site. Clients receive information about these and other food, health, and wellbeing services in the Sunset Park area in their food packages. Screening, Case Management and Nutrition Education: Staff counselors and AmeriCorps Food Access Navigators (FANs) provide case management services to community members. Counselors and FANs assess the needs and strengths of community residents to collaboratively determine goals and steps needed to achieve those goals. Residents are screened for a range of needs and benefits eligibility and then assisted with accessing food, economic, and other benefits and services to address immediate needs and promote long term financial stability. Some services are provided directly (such as SNAP and other benefit application assistance) and others are provided through referrals (such as legal, health, and mental health services). Evidence indicates that SNAP enrollment has a positive impact on long term outcomes for young children, reduced hospitalization for seniors, and positive academic outcomes for high school students. Counselors and FANs are located at the Family Support Center (the site of The Table food pantry) and at community partner sites throughout Sunset Park including schools, primary care providers and community based organizations. The approach acknowledges and responds to the challenges community members often experience in accessing benefits and resources. Community members may struggle with cultural, language, and literacy barriers as they navigate the complex application process. Counselors and FANs are representative of the dominant cultural groups in the community. Sunset Park Community Coalition: The CSP, in partnership with the Chinese American Planning Council launched the Sunset Park Community Coalition in summer 2021, leveraging existing local resources to formalize an integrated system that supports food security. Multi sector partners include food pantries and soup kitchens, 42 community based organizations, and local businesses in the food supply chain, food recovery organizations, farms, public schools, and citywide organizations focused on hunger prevention. The Coalition is a collaborative effort to reduce food insecurity and address the underlying social determinants of health in the community. Progress and Impact The Healthy Food Initiative was added to the Community Service Plan in April 2020 to address community needs that intensified during the pandemic. Since this time, 14,754 households and 44,262 individuals have received food security services through the Healthy Food Initiative. Emergency Food Pantry: 10,810 households received emergency food packages with 194,580 pounds of shelf stable food and locally grown produce through The Table. The program expanded emergency food access models to adapt to community needs. Beginning in April 2020, the program began providing food packages to in need patients being discharged from NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn’s Emergency Department, delivering an average of 30 food packages every Friday. From mid May to August 2020, The Table also delivered weekly food packages to participants who were not able or willing to travel to the site. In response to the sustained burden and instability for families with young children, in summer 2021, The Table launched special food service events for families with children aged 0 5. These events consist of food distribution, a live cooking demonstration, and outdoor activities/giveaways for children. These special services have reached 16,622 family members, including 2,027 children ages 0 5. The Table leveraged its interaction with many high need members of the community to provide general information about COVID 19 testing/vaccination and safety, tips on how to support children and elderly family members during quarantine, and connection to a continuum of wrap around services available at the FHC’s Family Support Center. All participants who visited the pantry between April 2019 and August 2020 were invited to participate in the web based survey via text. We received 351 responses suggesting that The Table is helping in need community residents access healthy, community tailored food: § indicated they were “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with The Table food pantry program (298 of 351 respondents); § indicated the pantry had a friendly environment (300 of 349 respondents); § indicated some or most items were the kind of food their household wanted to eat (312 of 349 respondents); and § of participants who reported visiting our food pantry to provide their household with healthy foods indicated they successfully accessed healthy food through their visit (148 of 149 respondents). 43 Responses also suggest that The Table may help alleviate broader financial resource strain. Accessing the food pantry in order to be able to use financial resources to meet other needs was the most cited reason for visiting The Table (). Ninety percent of those respondents indicated the food they received helped them have more money to pay bills or buy other necessities. Many also reported using the pantry in order to provide healthy food for their household (). Thirty eight percent of respondents who visited The Table in 2020 visited because food was running low. In January 2022, we fielded a survey asking The Table participants to provide feedback on the fresh farm produce they received during the pandemic. The results of this survey will be used to inform future program design and it will guide the Brooklyn Grange in crop planning for the 2022 2023 season. Screening, Case Management and Nutrition Education: During this reporting period, 4,102 heads of household (HOH) received food security case management services through 6,076 case management sessions. The majority received support with benefits applications: § 2,944 HOH were assisted with SNAP applications, including new applications and re certifications; § 606 HOH were assisted with Cash Assistance applications. We are currently expanding the availability of screening and case management to community partners. We are recruiting 10 AmeriCorps members to serve as AmeriCorps Food Access Navigators (FANs) in five sites throughout Sunset Park. The FANs will work directly with Coalition partners to build their capacity to address immediate and ongoing food needs. The planned program start is June 2022. Recruitment of partners and AmeriCorps members has begun. We are developing an integrative roll out plan in conjunction with partners with a focus on curriculum, workflow, documentation, outreach, and supervision. Workshops will begin in summer or fall 2022. Sunset Park Community Coalition: The Sunset Park Community Coalition convened 7 times since its launch in June 2021. During this time, multi sector partners included Arab American Association of New York, the Center for Family Life, Chinese American Planning Council, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Grandma’s Love, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, Holding Hands Ministries, Mixteca Organization Inc., P.S. 169, P.S. 94., P.S. 503/506, City Harvest and the Brooklyn Grange. The Coalition developed a community emergency food resource list, launched mini grants to support Coalition partner projects that extend food security resources, and created a new partnership with P.S. 503/506 and Grandma’s Love to provide fresh produce via The Brooklyn Grange rooftop farms to families in need. The mini grants supported organizations interested in purchasing equipment, emergency food, and technology to assist with their food distribution operations. 44 Plans Over the three years of the 2022 2024 CSP, the Healthy Food Initiative will reach over 37,000 residents experiencing or at risk of food insecurity over the next three years. By August 2025, of those served will have improved food or financial security. The Table will continue to operate weekly, distributing food packages to 800 unique families per month. The Table will reach 13,500 unique households by 2025. For this next phase of the CSP, we will continue our relationship with The Brooklyn Grange and other local businesses to provide fresh, local food in our emergency food packages. Building upon the fresh produce offerings, The Table will continue to partner with NYU’s Center for the Study of Asian American Health to develop culturally specific recipe cards that correspond to the produce grown by The Brooklyn Grange for distribution in food packages. The Healthy Food Initiative will serve 8,760 residents through screening and case management provided by Family Support Services counselors at the Family Support Center and AmeriCorps Food Access Navigators (FANs) at Sunset Park Community Coalition sites. We anticipate the FANs will be fully recruited by September 2022 and will serve as a 'connective tissue', fostering ongoing communication and collaboration between organizations through Sunset Park. We will provide 20 workshops to 350 community residents on core healthy living, food access, and financial stability topics. The Sunset Park Community Coalition will continue to leverage existing community resources in an effort to create an integrated system that supports food security. During the first year of the new CSP, the Coalition will develop processes for ongoing assessment of community need, undertake a landscape analysis of available services and gaps in care, define goals and outcomes for the Coalition, set criteria for membership in the Coalition, and develop a cross sector workflow to facilitate sharing of resources among member organizations and their participants. 2. Greenlight Early Childhood Obesity Prevention Program Taking advantage of the frequency of primary care pediatric visits in the early years of life, the NYULH Department of Pediatrics in partnership with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC), a federally qualified health center, culturally adapted and implemented Greenlight, an evidence based program that teaches families about healthy eating and activity in order to prevent early childhood obesity in the Chinese American community. The partnership grew after a needs assessment identified childhood obesity prevention to be a priority issue in the community where approximately of children in low income Chinese communities are considered to be at risk due to overweight or obesity. The importance of health literacy Approximately 90 million Americans—or 45 percent of the population—have basic or below basic literacy skills, and 110 million have basic or below basic quantitative skills; individuals with low literacy struggle with understanding and acting on health information, referred to as low health literacy. Nearly of US parents are categorized as having low health literacy. Minority and immigrant families are at increased risk for having low health literacy. Low health literacy and numeracy is associated with worse health outcomes; with respect to issues related to obesity, low health literacy and numeracy have been associated with lower rates of breastfeeding, difficulty understanding food labels and portion sizes, higher rates of obesogenic behaviors like pressuring feeding, decreased physical activity, and screen time, as well as higher rates of obesity. 45 The collaboration began with support from the 2014 2016 Community Service Plan, with implementation at the CBWCHC site in Manhattan’s Chinatown and has since expanded with CSP support to a second CBWCHC site in Flushing, Queens, as well as Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone in Brooklyn. Each of these sites serve predominantly Chinese American families. The Greenlight program, which was developed as part of an NIH funded grant in settings that serve predominantly low income Black and Hispanic families, trains pediatricians and other health care providers on how to communicate effectively with families using toolkits that contain culturally tailored educational materials that are easy to understand. The use of these plain language principles benefits all individuals, but is especially helpful for those with low literacy. Greenlight focuses on improving health literacy and fostering family engagement through three core components: § Low literacy toolkits to support physician counseling around diet and activity related behaviors at well child visits starting with newborns, which include booklets containing age specific recommendations and ‘tangible tools’ such as portion size snack cups to support evidence based obesity prevention messages; § Training of providers in evidence based health communication strategies (use of plain language, supplementing counseling with written information, along with teach back and goal setting); § Waiting room program where health educators promote family engagement in care as they introduce and support Greenlight messages. See Appendix D for evidence of the effectiveness of the Greenlight program resulting from an NIH funded multi site cluster randomized study. Updated 15 18 month booklet, showing a sample meal plate. Updated 6 month booklet, showing green and red “traffic light” behaviors. 46 The Greenlight intervention incorporates evidence based messages related to child obesity. These are communicated through “core” booklets that are given out at each well child visit, which introduce or reinforce three age appropriate parent behaviors thought to be most strongly associated with preventing obesity during early childhood based on the peer reviewed literature. These behaviors are highlighted on the cover of each core booklet within a green “traffic light.” Supplemental booklets provide more in depth guidance on topics known to be important to address in obesity prevention, including breastfeeding, sleep, healthy eating for the whole family, and screen time. Progress and Impact The Greenlight intervention has now been incorporated as part of routine well child visits at the CBWCHC Chinatown and Flushing sites, as well as the Seventh Avenue FHC at NYU Langone in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. In addition, the Greenlight waiting room program, in which health educators support the provision of evidence based healthy eating and activity related practice, is fully implemented at CBWCHC Chinatown. Implementation at CBWCHC: The full set of Greenlight materials at CBWCHC (core and supplemental booklets translated into Simplified Chinese), along with tangible tools, have fully been rolled out at CBWCHC’s Chinatown site since May 2016, with 20 health care providers and 5 health educators trained in the use of the tools. Yearly trainings are offered to all staff members to ensure program updates are communicated across all sites. From September 2019 through December 2021, the CBWCHC Chinatown site distributed 3200+ booklets and 2600+ tangible tools. During this period, which included the lockdown of New York City during the COVID 19 pandemic, we have reached 960+ unique children and families (~ of unique eligible patients visiting each year). Of the 3500+ well child visits of children 2 24 months of age that took place since September 2019, nearly of visits included Greenlight intervention with a health educator or with a pediatrician. In September 2020, the Greenlight program was expanded to one additional CBWCHC site in Flushing, Queens. From September 2020 to December 2021, the CBWCHC Flushing site program distributed 200+ core booklets and reached nearly 100 children and their families. Of the 400+ well child visits of children 2 24 months of age that took place in this cycle, about of visits included Greenlight intervention with pediatrician. Participating families and providers have been enthusiastic about the program: of families said they would recommend the Greenlight program to a friend. said they shared the Greenlight booklet to someone else in the home. Families have requested sets of Greenlight booklets to take with them when they change clinics, or when they move back to their native country. Pediatricians have found that the sample meal plans and schedules in the Greenlight booklets are especially helpful, as these visuals help reinforce appropriate serving sizes and feeding patterns. Pediatricians have highlighted how valuable the waiting room health education program has been, as it is often difficult to fully cover key messages about eating/activity within the time constraints of well child visits. 47 Implementation at Seventh Avenue FHC: Due to COVID 19 disruptions, implementation of the Greenlight program at Seventh Avenue FHC was delayed until October 2020. The clinic is being provided with a full set of materials including core and supplemental booklets (in both English and Simplified Chinese), as well as tangible tools. The Greenlight program is integrated into regular well child visits and the HealthySteps Specialist’s workflow at Seventh Avenue FHC. HealthySteps is a pediatric primary care program focused on promoting the health, wellbeing, and school readiness of young children. During the well child visit, the HealthySteps Specialist reviews and reinforces the content provided in the Greenlight booklets and answers any questions that families may have. Three pre implementation training sessions were conducted with staff which include 5 family practitioners, 1 pediatrician, 1 HealthySteps specialist, and 12 nurses / medical assistants. Yearly trainings are offered to all staff members to ensure program updates are communicated across all sites. Between October 2020 and December 2021, we distributed 1500+ booklets and 800+ tangible tools. Despite the challenges presented by COVID 19, our booklet distribution numbers have exceeded our proposed benchmark of 300 booklets. To date, Greenlight has been used as part of 882 well child visits, reaching about 300 unique children and families, surpassing our original goal of 100 children and families. Evaluation: Enrollment of a group of children and caregivers pre and post implementation of Greenlight at CBWCHC Chinatown has allowed us to look at the impact of Greenlight (pre: 314 caregiver/child dyads; post: 201 caregiver/child dyads). § Impacts on behavior include reduced juice/sweet drink intake at 6 and 12 months of age (6 months: 4 vs. , p=0.03; 12 months: 7 vs. , p<0.001), reflecting a 10 fold and 20 fold decreased odds of giving juice at 6 and 12 months, respectively. § While juice/sugary drink consumption grew significantly at 24 and 36 month time points, there remained a smaller percentage of children who consumed juice/sweet drinks post implementation at 24 months of age (post vs. pre: 46 vs. ; p=0.007), with evidence of continuation of this trend at 36 months (post vs. pre: 61 vs. ; p=0.1). § Children also had a 3 fold increased odds of using cups by 12 months of age, an important step to transitioning from the bottle (post vs. pre: 86 vs. , p=0.01). § At 12 months of age, there was a 2 fold increased odds of consuming fruits/vegetables 4x or more per day (post vs. pre: 41 vs. , p=0.02), with continued evidence of a trend for higher fruit/vegetable consumption post implementation at 36 months (post vs. pre: 53 vs. , p=0.06). Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone First opened in 2002, the Seventh Avenue site (formerly known as the Brooklyn Chinese Family Health Center) is part of FHC’s network of FQHCs affiliated with NYU Langone Health. It was one of the first medical facilities to open in Sunset Park to serve the needs of medically underserved Asian Americans in the area. The site serves both the medical, rehabilitation, and dental needs of the community, with over 28,000 patient visits per year, including over 6,000 pediatric patient visits. The team of health care providers includes family medicine providers, pediatricians, and an Ob/Gyn. The majority of families seen at the clinic are recent immigrants from Fuzhou, in southern China. 48 § An approximately 2 fold reduction was seen in any consumption of sugary snacks (post vs. pre: 33 vs. , p=0.005) at 12 months. § There was a greater than 5 fold increased odds of meeting physical activity recommendations in the first year of life. § No differences were seen in rates of breastfeeding or screen time. Our evaluation has also allowed us to look at changes in parent self efficacy/empowerment. Parents were asked about their level of agreement with 4 statements (e.g., “I can do many things to keep my child from being overweight,” “I know how to prevent my child from becoming overweight”). Parents of 6 and 12 month old’s had an increased odds of choosing “strongly agree” to these statements (3 fold and 10 fold, respectively); differences in self efficacy were especially strong in parents of 12 month olds, with evidence of higher self efficacy post implementation continuing to be seen through the 24 and 36 month time points. An abstract based on the evaluation component of the program was accepted for a platform presentation at the Pediatric Academic Societies meeting (considered the premier annual national pediatric research meeting) and was presented at the American Academy of Pediatrics Presidential Plenary; a manuscript describing the findings is in progress. At Seventh Avenue FHC, baseline data on behaviors were obtained on a subset of 68 parent/child pairs before recruitment was stopped due to New York City’s COVID 19 lockdown order. Our pilot data highlight the need to support healthy infant feeding behaviors in this population. Only of mothers were exclusively breastfeeding at 6 months of age; nearly of 6 and 12 month old infants drink juice; nearly of 12 month olds did not use a cup; and started solids early, before 6 months. To further inform implementation at the Seventh Avenue FHC, we conducted 25 semi structured qualitative interviews with mothers of 1 15 month old infants. From these interviews we learned that maternal social support networks (both local and transnational) as well as sociocultural beliefs, influenced the development of infant feeding practices and the experience of transnational parenting. In addition, mothers described heightened family hardships due to the COVID 19 pandemic, including financial strain, disruption of plans to send a child back to China for childcare, as well as experiences of racism. One manuscript has been published in the Journal of Immigrant and Minority Health, “Material Hardship and Stress from COVID 19 in Immigrant Chinese American Families with Infants” with another currently under review, “Infant Feeding Practices and Social Support Networks in Immigrant Chinese American Mothers.” These findings will inform clinicians, researchers, and program stakeholders that seek to prevent early child obesity in immigrant communities experiencing poverty, particularly in the understudied Chinese American community. 49 Updated Booklets and Technology: From 2020 2021, all Greenlight booklets were updated to incorporate the most recent American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations (e.g., related to screen time, juice). Each core and supplement booklet was reviewed and revised for accuracy, clarity, and readability. Updated graphics and images were also included. Two additional core booklet time points, Newborn and 1 month, were added given that important infant feeding practices are established in this period of development. A formal adaptation process was used for all booklets to ensure that program materials would resonate with the Chinese American population. For all Chinese translations, a team of 5 bilingual translators underwent 3 rounds of translations before sending materials to be reviewed by providers, health educators, and staff from both CBWCHC and Seventh Ave FHC sites. Suggestions were then incorporated into each booklet before being reviewed a final time for accuracy and flow. English versions of the Chinese booklets were created specifically with the Chinese population in mind. Pictures and graphics were updated and reviewed for cultural appropriateness. Special attention was paid to the food photographs included in our updated booklets. All foods were reviewed for cultural relevance and included multiple rounds of feedback from a CBWCHC nutritionist familiar with common Chinese foods. As of January 2022, all Greenlight core booklets, as well as the Breastfeeding and Formula supplemental booklets, have completed the update process and are being prepared for distribution at all program sites. The main Greenlight website was launched in July 2018 (https://www.greenlight program.org/), and houses the Greenlight booklets and additional resources for parents, including an interactive activity that allows parents to identify questions and review answers related to diet and nutrition related topics. Our team is in the process of uploading updated booklets to the main site and a fully Chinese version of the website is also being built, with a plan to launch in spring 2022. 2018 version of booklet (left) and 2022 version of booklet (right). Updated 9 month booklet, showing a sample meal schedule. 50 COVID 19 and Greenlight: Beginning in March 2020, the COVID 19 pandemic caused significant workflow and staffing changes that affected the Greenlight program. Parents and families have been hesitant to be onsite at the clinic for healthcare. Because the Greenlight intervention is flexible and easily incorporated into the workflow, we were able to keep the program going. For example, when health educators were not available, health care providers provided more of the counseling related to the Greenlight materials during the well child visit. Greenlight materials have also filled gaps in care when other services, such as WIC, were not as accessible to families. Due to COVID, there has also been increased use of virtual video visits for delivery of primary care at CBWCHC, which has included delivery of various components of the Greenlight program. In addition, the Greenlight program has been able to foster new partnerships to promote healthy behaviors and child development. As of July 2020, we are now working together with staff from the national Healthy Steps Program (specialist) at the CBWCHC Chinatown site. Greenlight materials are being used by CBWCHC Healthy Steps staff; shared materials and common messages regarding for healthy lifestyle behaviors reinforce positive parenting styles. Despite challenges faced during the pandemic, Greenlight use remained high, with high rates of distribution of materials, and successful program expansion to other sites. Plans As part of the 2022 2024 CSP, we anticipate reaching ~2000 children and their families by implementing the Greenlight program across CBWCHC (3 sites: Chinatown, Flushing 37th Ave, Flushing 45th Ave), the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (2 sites: Seventh Avenue FHC and Sunset Park FHC, which serves predominantly Latinx and Chinese families), and NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Pediatric Center (which serves predominantly Latinx and African American families), delivering the intervention to underserved, low income families through health care providers at well child visits in the primary care setting, and through health educators as part of the associated waiting room program. We anticipate that Greenlight will be used at 2200+ well child visits, reaching over 1000 families each year, with distribution of at least 2700 booklets and 1700 tangible tools each year across the participating sites. This will include continued, routine engagement and training of 40 50 providers at these sites (training/informational sessions annually at minimum, and more frequently, if needed). We anticipate continuing to maintain the Greenlight waiting room program at CBWCHC Chinatown, reaching 300 families per year. At the NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Pediatric Center, a new health educator will be trained, and the Greenlight waiting room program launched at that site. We plan to continually refine translations and update toolkit information with the latest American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations. We also plan to expand the reach of Greenlight through technology enhancements, including exploring how to promote and expand website resources, as well as leveraging social media platforms to make Greenlight messages accessible to more families. The newly updated booklets will be available via the Greenlight website and parent website made available in both Spanish and Chinese. In addition, with the increase in telehealth visits due to the ongoing pandemic, we plan to pilot remote delivery methods of Greenlight materials to families. 51 To further strengthen our partnership with parents and community leaders, a community advisory board (CAB) will be formed, consisting of families, providers, and representatives from community organizations. We will begin by surveying families (n=25 30) receiving care at participating sites. This feedback will inform the Greenlight team and its community advisory board, which will meet quarterly. By working closely with the CAB, we hope to ensure that the intervention is delivered in an effective and culturally appropriate way to the populations we work with; discussions will inform improvements to future intervention implementation activities. The intermediate goals of our project relate to supporting families in engaging in healthy child eating and physical activity related behaviors/practices (e.g., less juice/sugary snack/junk food consumption, increased physical activity, decreased screen time), as well as providing families with tools in the home to support healthy eating/activity related activities. In addition, we seek to increase provider delivery of evidence based healthy eating/activity recommendations and provider use of evidence based health communication strategies. We also seek to increase parents’ confidence/empowerment related to the care of their child, with a long term goal of reducing the rate of overweight/obesity, as well as increasing the capacity of sites to support families in engaging in healthy eating / activity related behaviors. Over the upcoming 3 years, we will continue to collect data regarding Greenlight delivery and impact using a variety of strategies. This includes using electronic health record data to track Greenlight program process measures (e.g. provider/health educator counseling, booklet/tangible tool distribution, goal setting) as well as child height and weight data, gathering information from staff tracking sheets regarding distribution of materials (e.g. booklet, tangible tools), conducting parent and provider surveys, and looking at analytics from the Greenlight website (# downloads / views of program booklets), as well as reviewing notes from meetings of parent advisory group/community advisory board. This will include exploring collection of key diet and activity related outcomes at each age timepoint by leveraging the health educator/waiting room program. 3. Reach Far Brooklyn: Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn: Preventing Chronic Disease through Engagement with Community and Faith Based Organizations in Brooklyn Asian Americans experience a large burden from cardiovascular disease (CVD), hypertension and diabetes, with substantial variation in prevalence rates across subgroups, with South Asian populations experiencing higher risk. Certain Asian American subgroups also report poor nutritional practices, further elevating CVD risk. Studies have demonstrated low medication adherence in some Asian American subgroups, a critical component of diabetes and hypertension management. Each of these risk factors is further exacerbated by barriers to accessing culturally and linguistically appropriate care and tailored health information. Similar risk factors have been documented in Arab American communities, though there is a paucity of research on this population due to limitations in local and national data collection race and ethnicity categories. Diabetes and hypertension prevention and self management programs that enable lifestyle changes and enhance linkage to healthcare have been shown to be an effective method of promoting prevention and control of these chronic conditions. Yet there is a lack of culturally tailored programs to promote diabetes and hypertension prevention and management. 52 Our program, Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian and Arab Americans in Brooklyn (REACH FAR Brooklyn) recognizes the important role that faith and community based organizations can play in improving the health of immigrants and racial and ethnic minority populations. REACH FAR Brooklyn partners with mosques, social service agencies, local leaders, and primary care settings in Brooklyn neighborhoods with substantial concentrations of South Asian and Arab American communities to improve cardiovascular risk factors (including obesity, hypertension control, and diabetes management) and promote healthy eating. Specifically, we: § Enhance and promote systematic and sustainable linkages to culturally and linguistically tailored community and clinically based resources to improve diabetes and hypertension prevention and management in South Asian and Arab communities; § Implement reinforcing and integrated evidence based approaches to improve access to environments promoting nutrition in South Asian and Arab communities by introducing education and changes to communal food practices in faith settings; and § Enhance City wide campaigns by disseminating culturally tailored communications and education on CVD risk reduction to Brooklyn South Asian and Arab communities. Progress and Impact REACH FAR Brooklyn builds upon our team’s success in implementing culturally tailored community clinical linkage program for Asian Americans and other immigrant communities over the past several years. We have built upon these successful efforts to establish REACH FAR Brooklyn. Keep on Track: With support from the Centers for Disease Control, REACH FAR has worked with community partners (United Sikhs, DREAM Coalition, Korean Community Services, and Kalusugan Coalition) and 12 faith based organizations to increase access to healthy food and beverage options and deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate health coaching for management and prevention of high blood pressure in Asian American communities. As part of this effort, REACH FAR has adapted Keep on Track, an evidence based train the trainer program developed by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, to screen, monitor, and provide counseling to people with high blood pressure. Keep on Track has been implemented in 120 faith based and community based settings across New York City, but 53 previously had not been adapted for or implemented in Asian American communities. REACH FAR activities are supported by a comprehensive social marketing campaign to raise awareness of hypertension prevention and treatment and to promote hypertension screening events at faith based and other organizations. REACH FAR has also culturally adapted and disseminated materials on hypertension and nutrition created by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and the Centers for Disease Control Million Hearts initiative and distributed these materials in a variety of community venues such as health care settings, grocery stores, restaurants, and faith based and community based organizations. As a result of these efforts, KOT has been implemented in 18 faith based and community based organizations across NYC, and established a trained cohort of 19 faith based leaders and CHWs in these settings. Additionally, the REACH FAR coalition has worked closely with NYCDOHMH to scale and implement diabetes prevention and diabetes management program in South Asian communities over the past four years, offering a prime opportunity to enhance referral to and support sustainability mechanisms for existing programs Growing out of this work, as part of the Community Service Plan, we partnered with two mosques on the Lower East Side, Manhattan Assafa Islamic Center and Madina Masjid two mosques in Sunset Park, Brooklyn Muslim Community Center