treatment of disabilities related to cancer or cancer treatment. Other subspecialties that have emerged since the specialty was first recognized are musculoskeletal and pain rehabilitation. In the coming years, I expect physiatry will continue to grow, and I’m glad to be part of it. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Legacy of Innovation NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation is one of the most renowned rehabilitation locations in the country, with a storied history. What makes it unique? Rusk Rehabilitation was the first fully integrated, university-based rehabilitation program in the world, and next year marks our 75th anniversary. At Rusk Rehabilitation, our physiatrists focus on a specific area of rehabilitation medicine; some examples include cardiopulmonary, central nervous system, limb loss, pediatric, pain, musculoskeletal, sports medicine, spine, and pelvic floor dysfunction. We have some very specific niches as well, including one of the best vestibular rehabilitation programs in the country. Our limb loss program is also exceptionally strong. But most importantly, we provide complex rehabilitation for complex patients. Recently, we were involved in the care of a patient who received the world’s first —no other institutions are doing cases like these. Rusk Rehabilitation is also a magnet for education and research. We train medical students, residents, therapy students, and psychologists, and our research draws top talent from around the world. Steven R. Flanagan, MD, is chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is the president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for stroke, concussion, and traumatic brain injury. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks In the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, clinicians anticipated that many patients who were hospitalized or who had more severe disease might experience the lingering symptoms of a chronic pulmonary disease. “What we found is that other patients who had mild or even asymptomatic disease, weeks to months later, were also developing symptoms like shortness of breath, fatigue, dizziness, and brain fog,” says pulmonologist Rany Condos, MD Estimates suggest that roughly 50 percent of patients who’ve had COVID-19 will develop post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), or long COVID. “What we are finding in the clinic is that there continues to be an enormous need,” Dr. Condos says. “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” To better understand the genetic and immunoinflammatory drivers and other risk factors for PASC that may point toward therapeutic targets and strategies, Dr. Condos and rheumatologist , are leading a $4.2 million NIH-funded study to characterize the patients in the program. “While the syndrome is occurring in a substantial number of people, we don’t really understand the pathophysiology or the disease mechanisms,” says Dr. Abramson, chair of the . “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” A Long-Term Assessment of Outcomes The study will enroll more than 1,200 patients divided into three groups: one with long-term pulmonary symptoms, a second with symptoms that do not include pulmonary complaints, and a third group who have had COVID-19 but no long-lasting symptoms. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible.” Beyond characterizing patients’ pulmonary and neurological symptoms and medical history, the study will assess their anxiety, ability to perform daily tasks, and social determinants of health. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible,” Dr. Condos says. Collecting the data over two to four years may provide critical information about the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection in distinct PASC groups. “Since there’s really no specific treatment to speak of the other purpose of the grant is to understand mechanisms, whether broadly speaking or for each of the different PASC subtypes, to identify targeted treatment approaches,” Dr. Abramson says. Searching for Genetic and Immunological Triggers A better understanding of those disease mechanisms may come from determining the inflammatory, immunological, genetic, and autoimmune processes driving the clinical manifestations of PASC. In acutely hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19, the virus somehow activates a cytokine-mediated, host-induced inflammation that can damage multiple organs. Dr. Abramson and colleagues report on the preprint server medRxiv that variants of the IL1RN gene seem to confer protection against severe disease . Among patients with PASC, the investigators hope to determine whether cytokine levels are persistently elevated, whether autoantibody responses have proliferated, and whether continued inflammation is more associated with a pro-inflammatory genotype of A whole genome sequencing analysis of each patient will aid the search for other candidate genes that increase the susceptibility or severity of PASC. “Even though we know there is persistent inflammation in some of these patients, we don’t know why,” Dr. Abramson says. The study may shed new light on whether a virus-induced autoimmune response or the persistence of viral particles in the gut or elsewhere drives the disease in some patients. Sifting Through Potential Risk Factors The researchers will also examine how genetic variants linked to PASC susceptibility and severity may vary across self-identified race and ethnicity. Some genetic polymorphisms, for example, may modulate immune–inflammatory responses that influence the incidence or severity of PASC syndromes in certain patient groups. “We’re trying to be very consistent, organized, and defined in terms of how we’re evaluating these patients because we’re dealing with something that has not been defined until now,” Dr. Condos says. In effect, Dr. Abramson adds, the study is an extension of the integrated clinical program that evaluates and cares for patients through the close coordination of pulmonologists, neurologists, rheumatologists, and specialists at NYU Langone’s , among others. “I think what we are offering people is some assurance that we can at least help diagnose a problem and provide supportive therapy,” he says. “That’s really important to people, otherwise they feel like it’s just in their head.” Steven Abramson, MD, is the Frederick H. King Professor of Internal Medicine and chair of the Department of Medicine. He is the executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, and chief academic officer for NYU Langone Health. He specializes in treating and researching arthritis. Rany Condos, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine, director of the Post-COVID Care Program, and director of the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program. She specializes in pulmonary conditions. CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine , is a pulmonary and critical care physician with an extensive background in bronchiectasis and nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infection. In January 2023, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris became president of the American College of Chest Physicians (CHEST) . Additionally, in July 2023, NYU Langone Health, a leading center in the study and treatment of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease, will host the 6th World Bronchiectasis and NTM Conference recently spoke with Dr. Addrizzo-Harris about what she hopes to accomplish during her presidency of CHEST and her vision for the future of the subspecialty. An Inclusive Community As president of CHEST, can you share some of your goals and vision for the organization? Dr. Addrizzo-Harris: CHEST is focused on improving clinical care in pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine. We are already an organization that is inclusive of a variety of healthcare providers, but we can do more. We want to expand our membership to other providers who help care for our patients, including advanced practice providers, respiratory therapists, and others. We will also focus on increasing collaborations with sister societies to find new ways to reach fellows-in-training, as well as residents and medical students who are interested in pulmonary, critical care, or sleep medicine. The Role of Education and Mentoring How do you view the current state of education and mentoring within CHEST? CHEST does medical education really well, from problem-based training at our conference, to train-the-trainer events, to educational opportunities at headquarters. But the thing we do best is provide opportunities for networking and learning from the experts—not only about the subspecialty, but how to create your most robust career. “The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming.” An expanded offering, particularly in the area of professional and career development, could reach even more fellows and early-career members on both a national and an international level. The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming. Addressing Healthcare Disparities As an organization focused on clinical care, what types of patient health initiatives does CHEST engage in? How will you support these efforts? Access to care is a critical issue, especially in pulmonary medicine. Our Health Policy and Advocacy Committee does incredible work with thought leaders in the field to advocate for legislative changes that need to be made at both the national and local levels. I have a strong passion for the work of the CHEST Foundation , which for 25 years has been creating premier patient education tools, tackling health disparities in marginalized communities, awarding community grants, and partnering with physicians to offer better resources to patients. Throughout my presidency I will focus on how CHEST can support and integrate with the foundation’s goal of improving patient care, whether through supporting clinical research grants, expanding patient education and advocacy events, or funding programs like First 5 Minutes , designed to strengthen the rapport and trust between clinician and patient by building cultural competency and an understanding of barriers to care. Meeting Challenges Head-On What are some challenges facing CHEST, and how will you address these challenges? COVID-19 has shown us that we must be better prepared for global health emergencies. Early in the pandemic, CHEST established a large task force to address post-COVID care issues, and we will continue to evolve this effort as the pandemic evolves or other emergencies arise. All specialties, including pulmonology and critical care, have lost specialists post-COVID. For instance, rural access to specialist care is decreasing. How does telehealth feed into that? And how do we attract more medical students and trainees to pulmonary medicine? Within critical care, we did see some people leave, but now we’re seeing an increase in applications for fellowships. A challenge for all associations, CHEST included, will be redefining what associations look like now that virtual and hybrid learning has become a part of what we do on a day-to-day basis. How can we best utilize a hybrid or virtual collaboration and live events? Any closing thoughts? CHEST has many strengths, but I think our greatest is the strength of our team—our members, our faculty, our volunteer leaders, and our staff. To build on this, my presidency will include a strong communications strategy to reach, educate, and share the variety of opportunities with our members. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Military service members are frequently subjected to blast events during training and deployment that result in mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBIs). Evidence suggests these exposures may have long-term consequences for cognitive function. However, little is known about the cognitive sequelae, despite such events having increased in incidence in the past several decades. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil , the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology, is leading research that investigates both the short- and long-term effects of mTBIs caused by blast events and other active-duty incidents on cognitive functioning. This work includes searching for new clinical indicators such as biomarkers that may aid in identifying risks and supporting recovery. “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions.” “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE [chronic traumatic encephalopathy] and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions,” says Dr. Tsao. Dr. Tsao is the former director of Traumatic Brain Injury Programs for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. His research harnesses his expertise in Alzheimer’s disease and dementia as well as concussion to investigate the range of long-term impacts that may be associated with mTBIs. Variance in Post-Blast Neurological Assessment In 2021, Dr. Tsao and colleagues published a study revealing acute neurocognitive deficits in active-duty service members evaluated following subconcussive blast exposures. The study used data collected with the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) , a computer-based tool routinely used for cognitive health assessments for service members that evaluates memory, concentration, reaction time, and other neurocognitive domains. Compared to an age-matched normative population, personnel exposed to subconcussive blasts exhibited ANAM scores for reaction time tests outside the range of normal functioning. “The results highlight covert effects of subconcussive blast exposure that may warrant further monitoring in the immediate aftermath of a blast event,” the authors wrote. Longitudinal Effects of Mild Concussion While recent studies show the number of current military service members who develop CTE is small , Dr. Tsao is working with Navy researchers to explore any long-term effects of mTBI on active-duty members who served in the 1980s and 1990s. “Most of the military concussions in the 1980s were sports, motor vehicle, and training injuries,” Dr. Tsao says. “In the next two decades, we started to see more personnel exposed to blasts in combat.” The research utilizes two cohorts: a military personnel database from the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego and a national Veterans Affairs database. “These populations have been followed continuously since discharge from military service, so we can observe whether mild TBI is associated with new neurodegenerative disorders affecting individuals over time,” Dr. Tsao notes. “Early-onset dementia before the age of 65 is of great concern as it is not the norm,” he adds. “If we do discover that there is an elevated risk with a history of concussion early in life, this would require a greater focus on preventing injuries and what we could do to reduce the risk of disease.” Dr. Tsao and colleagues have identified some of the risk factors for developing long-term, but immediately noticeable, sequelae of mTBI , including multiple mTBIs, mTBIs overlapping with post-traumatic stress disorder or anxiety, mTBIs before complete recovery, and mTBIs resulting from close blast exposure. Searching for Biomarkers One path to more effectively track and manage mTBI cases could be to identify a biomarker that is easily obtained and that determines the presence and severity of a head injury, Dr. Tsao says. Unfortunately, prior research into proteins, microRNAs, and metabolites as potential biomarkers has not yet revealed a reliable standard. In a collaboration with Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD , Dr. Tsao is beginning to investigate whether changes in tau and other neuronal proteins following blast exposure and concussion can be used as biomarkers. “If there is a way to identify early who these people are, there might be a way to treat them years before they show up with clinical symptoms,” Dr. Tsao says. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil, is the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology. His research interests include dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, concussion and more severe forms of traumatic brain injury, and quality improvement in neurology. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Bronchiectasis is characterized by chronic cough and marked by thickened, dilated airways on CT scan. Airway dilation can cause cilia impairment, failure of mucus clearance, increased risk of infection, and airway obstruction, leading to impaired lung function. The lungs of people with bronchiectasis are often colonized by harmful fungi and bacteria, including nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). “Awareness of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease has increased, as have incidence and prevalence ,” says , co-director of NYU Langone Health’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Multidisciplinary Program , a leading center in the management of bronchiectasis and NTM infection. “While diagnosis is often delayed two to three years or more, with increased use of chest CT scans and advanced microbiology laboratories, diagnosing these patients has improved in recent years.” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris and the program are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions. Despite medical therapy being effective in up to 75 percent of NTM cases, she says, some NTM infections are difficult to treat and require innovative therapies. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines, and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” “Every patient with bronchiectasis and NTM infection is different,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines , and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” Better Identifying Subtypes of Bronchiectasis There are many causes of bronchiectasis , says Dr. Addrizzo-Harris. “It could be congenital, such as cystic fibrosis (CF) or immunoglobulin deficiencies. Or it could be caused by prior infection, chronic aspiration, ciliary abnormalities, alpha-1 antitrypsin disease, rheumatologic disease—the list goes on.” New biomarker research is applying emerging phenotyping and endotyping techniques to identify the patient populations who would most benefit from specific treatments, with the goal of better targeting new treatments directed at infection, inflammation, and other aspects of the disease cycle. Dr. Addrizzo-Harris works closely with Leopoldo N. Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory, in analyzing the lung microbiome to determine patterns that may give clues to better ways of treating patients with NTM infection. “Do we need to treat the bacteria, or is there something we need to treat that is in the white blood cell and part of the inflammatory cascade? That’s the thought right now,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. Improving NTM Treatment It is critical to get frequent sputum samples in patients diagnosed with bronchiectasis to evaluate for harmful organisms, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris notes. “Which starts first—the NTM or the bronchiectasis? CT scan can reveal infection, but if you don’t get sputum, you won’t find these and some of the fungal infections associated with bronchiectasis such as aspergillosis.” Antimicrobial sensitivity testing or erm gene analysis may be necessary, explains Dr. Addrizzo-Harris, as NTM species and subspecies have varying susceptibility to existing antibiotics, including macrolides. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support. Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Several new drugs hold promise for treating NTM infections, with antimicrobials apramycin epetraborole omadacycline currently in trial. NYU Langone researchers participated in a study of inhaled liposomal amikacin for treatment of Mycobacterial avium complex that demonstrated 30 percent increase in sputum conversions and longer durability in approximately 50 percent of patients. Bacteriophages have demonstrated favorable clinical outcomes in a preliminary trial in patients lacking other options. NYU Langone researchers have published a pilot trial using as a viable option for patients requiring lung resection. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Clinical and Translational Research Dr. Addrizzo-Harris is joined by David L. Kamelhar, MD Ashwin Basavaraj, MD Stephanie Lau, MD , in conducting a prospective evaluation of patients with NTM infection and collecting clinical and survey data to facilitate study of the disease process. Dr. Segal is developing a biorepository of airway samples collected during antimycobacterial treatment. NYU Langone is the largest contributor of patient data to the COPD Foundation’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Research Registry Expanding Our Circle of Excellence Bringing a new level of care to Brooklyn and Long Island. February 1, 2022 • At , which holds a Joint Commission Certification for Stroke Rehabilitation, an early-mobilization program for postoperative patients after orthopedic or spinal surgery promises to enable discharge to home in one or two days. , which launched its Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in 2019, the staff has grown to include five full-time physiatrists offering comprehensive therapies at clinics across Long Island. View Our Locations CME, Symposia & Events NYU Langone Orthopedics Webinar Series September 21, 2022 6:45 PM – 8:30 PM ET NYU Langone Orthopedics is extremely proud to continue our CME orthopedic webinars. These free, live, online courses are led by and feature experts in the field, and will focus on several important facets of orthopedic surgery. In this course focused on the foot and ankle, faculty experts will discuss innovative techniques to treat cartilage injuries, the latest developments in biologics, and complex reconstructive surgery of the foot. NYU Langone was one of the first places in the world to perform in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), and we will highlight how IONA has revolutionized our practice and patient experience. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Inflammatory Bowel Disease April 8, 2022 This sixth annual CME- and MOC-accredited course presented online is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex IBD. Register Now Cases and Controversies in Heart Failure 2022 May 6, 2022 Virtual Webinar 7:45 am – 3:45 pm ET This course intended for internists, cardiologists, advanced practice providers, and any clinician who cares for or encounters individuals with advanced cardiovascular disease will focus on complex care plans and recent advancements in heart failure. Recent strides in treatment options and management will be presented through a series of case studies. 2nd Annual Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment of Inflammation in Cardiovascular Disease April 29, 2022 8:00 am – 1:00 pm Organized by NYU Langone’s Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease with assistance from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, this half-day course will survey latest advances in management of patients at elevated risk of cardiovascular and cardiometabolic disease due to underlying systemic inflammation. Topics will include such landmark trials as the CANTOS trial, those related to colchicine, and upcoming clinical trials in cardiology targeting the immune system. SBRT22 – Third Annual NYU Langone Long Island Department of Radiation Oncology SBRT for Prostate Cancer Course April 29 – May 1, 2022 Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) has emerged as an exciting, validated, and now standard treatment option for men with localized prostate cancer. This Comprehensive and Interactive Hands-On Course, offered in person and virtually, will provide an overview of the long-term data, treatment planning techniques and clinical considerations for optimizing the use of SBRT while minimizing side effects. Friday, April 29, 2022, 7:00 AM – Sunday, May 1, 2022, 10:15 AM, Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, AZ: +1 -888-495-2126 (mention NYU Langone SBRT for Prostate Cancer, for discounted rate), Scottsdale, AZ Invasive Cardiology Update for Practicing Health Care Professionals September 9, 2022 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM ET (held in person at NYU Langone Health and live-streamed online) This symposium will offer the latest updates on diagnostic and treatment strategies to assess risk of coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, congestive heart failure, valvular heart disease, arrhythmias, and preventive cardiology. Using a didactic learning approach, it will provide education on best practices to improve patient outcomes, expand on current therapy options, and reduce morbidity and mortality related to cardiovascular disease. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Pancreatic Disease September 23, 2022 7:45 AM – 5:00 PM ET This one-day course is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex pancreatic disease including pancreatitis, high-risk and pre-cancerous conditions, and pancreatic cancer. Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty, the program will cover special topics including early detection biomarkers, minimally invasive therapies for premalignant and malignant disease, personalized approaches to pancreatic cancer treatment, and selection of patients for pancreatectomy and autoislet transplant. Dietary and Lifestyle Strategies for Cardiovascular Risk Reduction October 14, 2022 Held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 7:30 AM – 2:30 PM This half-day course focuses on strategies to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and related comorbidities through lifestyle and dietary approaches. The program will provide evidence for the association between diet and cardiovascular disease, highlighting new clinical and scientific data. Expert presenters will share the latest knowledge in nutrition controversy, the impact of exercise on immune function, and the connection between the human microbiome and cardiovascular disease. Advances in Movement Disorders October 28, 2022 7:30 AM – 4:30 PM ET This comprehensive review will provide an update of the diagnosis and management of a broad range of diseases including Parkinson’s disease, chorea, tremor, ataxia, myoclonus, and dystonia. Attendees will learn about current diagnostic and management options for these conditions. Botulinum toxin injections, deep brain stimulation, and high-intensity focused ultrasound as therapeutic modalities will be discussed along with novel and emerging therapies for the treatment of various movement disorders. Comprehensive Spine Course September 30, 2022 To be held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th St., Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 3:45 PM This one-day course is a comprehensive review of the spine care continuum: examination, evaluation, and diagnosis; therapeutic interventions; spinal injections; and surgical interventions. Each area will present common pitfalls, the application of practical experience, and a comprehensive understanding of evidence-based care. Faculty experts will present the latest knowledge and review the proper handling of differential diagnosis and selecting appropriate interventions. Brainwaves: Emerging Uses of Neuromodulation for Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders October 21, 2022 8:15 AM – 1:10 PM ET This CME activity, now in its seventh year, provides a broad introduction to the field of neuromodulation, which incorporates deep and transcranial brain stimulation, as well as lesioning technologies such as gamma knife and focused ultrasound. Designed for those new to the field, as well as those with experience, the course covers both practical management issues and an in-depth look at future directions, along with “hot topic” discussions by some of the nation’s leading thought leaders. Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery: A Clinical Update NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th Street, Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 4:50 PM ET This comprehensive, multidisciplinary course is designed to provide practitioners who see women with disorders of the pelvic floor with the most up-to-date information in the field of FPMRS including terminology, diagnostics, therapeutics, and surgical techniques. Urologists, gynecologists, advance practice providers, and trainees will present practical information and evidence-based approaches. Audience participation and panels will be utilized to drive lively and informed discussions. Current Concepts of Ophthalmology 2023 January 6 – 7, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall New York January 6, 2023, 8:00 AM ET – January 7, 2023, 12:00 PM ET This course, now in its 13th year, highlights current concepts in cataract surgery, retinal diseases, glaucoma, diabetes-related eye disease, neuro-ophthalmology, and oculoplastics. The live format features opinion leaders in the various specialties presenting new and interesting topics with question-and-answer sessions. Resident eye physicians also present unusual cases to expert panels for vibrant discussions. Fifth International NYU Langone Hip Dysplasia Symposium September 16, 2022 7:45 AM – 3:30 PM ET The fifth iteration of this symposium will focus on gaps in the knowledge of hip dysplasia. The first section will focus on early identification and optimizing non-operative approaches. The second, aimed at the orthopedic surgeon, will focus on cutting-edge surgical treatments. Participants will learn best practices for identifying and treating hip dysplasia, recognizing complications and pitfalls in treatment, and developing treatment strategies. Researchers from around the world will discuss their work. Management of Patients with Voice, Swallowing and Airway Disorders January 21, 2023 Virtual Webinar | 7:45 AM – 4:00 PM ET Patients with voice and swallow-related complaints require a vast range of treatment modalities. This one-day course will focus on the didactic knowledge and practical experience needed to improve the practitioner’s knowledge base and diagnostic therapeutic accuracy. The program is a comprehensive review of the NYU Voice Center’s team approach for patients with voice, swallowing, and airway disorders, and will focus on common patient complaints and understanding of evidence-based care. Adult and Pediatric Endoscopic Ear Surgery and Cochlear Implantation November 4 – 5, 2022 Bellevue Hospital, 462 First Avenue | Room 5E11 7:30 AM – 5:00 PM ET This comprehensive two-day course is designed to provide a review of the latest techniques in ear surgery. Participants will update and expand their understanding of temporal bone anatomy and innovative surgical techniques for adult and pediatric endoscopic ear surgery, advanced middle ear and mastoid surgery, and cochlear implantation including challenging anatomic cases and revision surgery. Presenters include NYU Langone otolaryngology and neurosurgery faculty and guest experts. 11th Annual Articular Cartilage Repair Course: State of the Art Management of Complex Cartilage and Meniscal Lesions November 5, 2022 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue | Alumni Hall 6:30 AM – 1:00 PM ET This program will address the biologic approach to the treatment of cartilage injuries, using marrow stimulation techniques, osteochondral grafting, and cell-based repair methods to fill symptomatic defects.Risks and benefits will be discussed along with alternatives – operative and non-operative management, as well as specific improvements, expectations, and patient demographics. Additionally, patient safety topics will be presented as they apply to the decision-making process. Shoulder Arthroplasty Course May 19 – 20, 2023 InterContinental New York Barclay 6:30 AM – 3:00 PM This inaugural in-person educational event will bring together shoulder arthroplasty experts from around the world. The program will present the full spectrum of topics from preoperative evaluation to treatment of complications including primary and complex revision cases and all topics in between. The course content will provide a fast-paced program utilizing multiple formats — lectures, panel discussions, roundtable discussions, re-live surgery, and debates. Psychedelic Medicine October 29, 2022 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM ET Psychedelic-assisted therapies have shown promise in the treatment of multiple psychiatric disorders, with both MDMA and psilocybin receiving “breakthrough therapy” designation from the FDA. This course will provide an overview of contemporary psychedelic research, including naturalistic studies, clinical trials of psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy, and cutting-edge basic science research. The program will be of interest to both clinicians and researchers, highlighting the need for collaboration across disciplines. Post-Acute Covid Syndrome: Progress in Science and Patient Care November 15, 2022 Offered in person and live-streamed online 7:30 AM – 4:15 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide faculty and physicians-in-training an overview and update on the diagnosis and management of post-COVID patients. It will address a broad spectrum of clinician needs in the understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, currently available diagnostic techniques, and the current standard of evaluation and treatment. NYU Langone faculty experts will highlight the best screening practices in COVID patients with various medical complaints. Irwin D. Mandel Advances in Cardiovascular Risk Reduction: Improving Treatment for Patients with Diabetes December 1, 2022 This one-day course will provide a comprehensive approach to the management of patients with dyslipidemias, including an in-depth review of novel pharmacological agents and a practical overview of their use in clinical care. Screening for genetic mutations in lipids and the current state of cardiovascular genetics will be covered, as well as endothelial cell gene expression as a marker for cardiovascular disease risk. An update on diagnostic tools for cardiovascular risk assessment is included. Update on Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Through the Lifespan December 3, 2022 8:15 AM – 4:05 PM ET This course will focus on the latest issues in Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) throughout the lifespan – in children, adolescents, and adults. Topics to be covered include sluggish cognitive tempo; treatment of ADHD with a focus on new therapies; ADHD and substance use disorders; co-morbid conditions in ADHD; diagnosis of ADHD in adulthood; and exposure to systemic viruses and ADHD symptoms. The course will be a full-day, virtual activity with a breakout “Ask the Expert” session. Eighth Annual NYU Langone Advanced Seminar in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis December 9, 2022 The seminar is an informative educational conference for physicians across disciplines with a special interest in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. The program will review and address those areas such as COVID-19 where recent knowledge is available, focusing particularly on translation into practice. It will also explore the areas that are likely to prove important to the near-future management of patients. Participants will have the opportunity to raise questions and participate in dialogue with experts. Advances in Critical Care and Resuscitation December 15, 2022 7:45 AM – 4:20 PM ET This one-day symposium is designed to provide critical care and emergency medicine providers an update on the latest in medical management. The course will be organized around organ-specific themes and include a discussion of survivorship and psychological outcomes and ethical dilemmas in the ICU setting. Experts from NYU and around the world will delve into the physiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of critical care patients. NYU Langone Neurosurgery Update: A One-Day Symposium December 2, 2022 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM The spectrum of neurosurgery includes cranial, spinal, and peripheral nerve disorders related to vascular disease, brain tumors, pain, and movement, as well as behavioral disorders, epilepsy, and trauma. This one-day program will address significant clinical problems for which there may be clinical equipoise on available options, or for which current science does not provide solutions based on high-level medical evidence. Surgical, Pharmacological, and Technological Advances in Urology December 8 – 10, 2022