including scheduling doctor appointments or obtaining medications. If you live outside of the United States and need additional care after discharge, please contact our . Our staff is available 9:00AM to 5:00PM, Monday through Friday. Accepted Insurance Plans for Urgent Care at NYU Langone Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone may be covered by your insurance plan. Please review our list of insurance plans that we accept. Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS Florida Blue Options PPO BCBS Florida MyBlue HMO BCBS Florida Simply Blue BCBS Florida Blue Medicare PPO BCBS Florida Blue Care HMO BCBS Florida Traditional PPC First Health HIP VIP Medicare Bold Local 1199 NYSHIP - The Empire Plan Qualcare Inc. Railroad Medicare United Healthcare VA Community Care Network Our doctors are located throughout the New York City area. 646-501-7890 At NYU Langone’s Anosmia Center, our team of otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat doctors—are experts at diagnosing and treating anosmia, or the loss of smell. The process of smell is a unique connection between the brain and the nerve cells in the nose, called olfactory cells. When a scent molecule is released from an object such as a warm chocolate chip cookie, it stimulates the olfactory cells, which then send scent information to the brain, where the smell is interpreted and identified. Without smell, taste is also affected, since our taste buds can detect few flavors on their own. This can lead to a loss of interest in food, which can cause weight loss and possibly malnutrition. Anosmia may also affect quality of life by diminishing the ability to experience enjoyable smells. People who have anosmia are also more likely to consume spoiled or unsafe food, and be less aware of smells that indicate imminent danger such as smoke or natural gas. Colds, allergies, sinus infections, and viral infections such as the or COVID-19 can all cause anosmia. It can also be caused by nasal polyps or other blockages, tumors, or a . Conditions such as can also damage or deteriorate the nerves leading to the area of the brain that detects smell, causing anosmia. Diagnosing Anosmia Anosmia is often temporary, but if your sense of smell does not return after an illness, our otolaryngologists can help. When you come to the Anosmia Center, our physicians determine the cause of your smell disturbance through a thorough evaluation of your medical history and physical examination. To get a closer look at the inside of your nasal passages, your doctor uses a light and a hand-held instrument called a speculum. The speculum is used to gently widen the nostrils, so doctors can see the interior tissues and bone structure of the nose. Your doctor may also perform a nasal endoscopy, which is a diagnostic exam that provides a detailed view of the nasal passages. To perform this procedure, your doctor first sprays your nose with a decongestant to open up the nasal passages and a local anesthetic solution to reduce any discomfort. The doctor then inserts a thin fiber-optic instrument called an endoscope through each nostril. An endoscopy of the nasal passages and throat can reveal sources of any obstruction that could cause anosmia. This procedure takes only a couple of minutes and takes place in your doctor’s office. If your doctor needs more information, they may order an , which uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create images. MRI scans can detect whether there is in obstruction or deformity in the soft tissues of the head and neck causing anosmia. Once your doctor determines the primary cause of anosmia, they can develop a personalized treatment plan. For example, if you have sinusitis, medication can help restore your sense of smell. If a nasal polyp, tumor, or deformity is causing the anosmia, your otolaryngologist may recommend surgery to correct it. Post-COVID Anosmia Care If your loss of smell persists several months after recovering from COVID-19, our doctors may recommend smell retraining. Smell retraining involves repeatedly sniffing different smells while looking at a picture of each scent to help stimulate the olfactory system and establish a memory of that smell. Your doctor gives you a set of small glass jars with lids that each contain a small amount of an essential oil. The scents are often common smells that everyone can identify, such as grass, chocolate, lemon, mint, and coffee. At least two or three times a day, you smell the oil in each jar for 10 to 20 seconds while looking at a picture of the scent. While sniffing, you concentrate on your memory of the smell. After smelling each scent, you take a few deep breaths to clear your nasal passages and then move on to the next scent. Smell retraining is performed daily for about 12 weeks. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This experience, along with our focus on long-term COVID-19 symptoms , have given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance to regain your sense of smell. To schedule an appointment, please browse our Our team of ear, nose, and throat specialists are experts at treating anosmia. Maria W. Casey Megan M. Gaffey Marie T. Homsi Stephen G. Rothstein Sabrina Tarafdar Zahrah Taufique At NYU Langone’s Asthma Program, we provide comprehensive care to adults with and specialize in treating those whose disease is severe or difficult to control. We offer complete care to people with asthma that is caused by or related to other conditions, such as allergies, , or sinus disease. Our team works closely with other NYU Langone experts, including allergists, otolaryngologists, and gastroenterologists, to offer the most advanced, customized treatments available. Care in our program begins with a comprehensive medical history. During your first appointment, our experts spend time discussing your lifestyle, home and work environments, diet, allergies, and whether you have exposure to inhalants that irritate the lungs. We also conduct a physical exam and use pulmonary function testing to tailor a treatment plan to your specific needs and lifestyle. If your asthma is severe, our experts determine whether precision biologic therapy is appropriate for you. This type of treatment blocks inflammatory reactions in the body that lead to asthma symptoms and can be very effective for people with severe allergic or eosinophilic asthma. Our dedicated asthma educator, Tsering Tenzing, FNP-BC, counsels people about a range of asthma-related issues, from using an inhaler and exercising safely and comfortably to ways to avoid triggers. She helps you optimize asthma control so that you breathe easily and enjoy a full and active life. Our experts use the most advanced diagnostic techniques and treatments to care for people who have asthma. Francis Adams Gail E. Schattner