a leadless pacemaker in patients with normal sinus activity and complete heart block,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Translational Outlook If the early results from the MARVEL 2 trial hold up, Dr. Chinitz anticipates the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt leadless pacing technology. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in pacemaker technology. “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing.” “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing,” Dr. Chinitz says. Larry A. Chinitz, MD, is the Alvin Benjamin and Kenneth Coyle Sr. Family Professor of Medicine and Cardiac Electrophysiology, clinical director of the Leon H. Charney Divison of Cardiology, and director of cardiac electrophysiology and the Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests center on developing new techniques for treating cardiac arrhythmias. Our Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Team The team members at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center hold advanced degrees and board certification in their fields, publish in peer-reviewed journals, and lecture extensively worldwide. Our researchers have participated in task force and guideline panels and are known internationally for their expertise in musculoskeletal disorders. Marco Campello, PhD, PT, Director Dr. Campello is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU and also holds a New York State physical therapy license. Dr. Campello’s research interest is in the prevention and treatment of work-related musculoskeletal disability, with a special interest in multidisciplinary intervention and work-related health outcomes. Dr. Campello is a member of the North American Spine Society and the EUROSPINE, the Spine Society of Europe. Learn more about Dr. Campello Jeffrey Perry, DO, Medical Advisor Dr. Perry is board certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation and is a specialist in the nonsurgical management of musculoskeletal disorders and work-related injuries. Dr. Perry is a clinical instructor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine and Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Perry Sherri Weiser-Horwitz, PhD, Director of Clinical Services and Research Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a licensed health psychologist with more than 25 years of research and clinical experience in the field of musculoskeletal disorders. She is an expert on the biopsychosocial model of health and illness. She provides education and cognitive behavioral pain management to patients and trains health providers in psychological treatments. She is the recipient of federal research grant funding, has written numerous articles and chapters, and lectures extensively on this topic. Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a member of the North American Spine Society and a consultant for their Allied Health Committee. She is also a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Weiser-Horwitz Ali Sheikhzadeh, PhD, Director of Research and Education Dr. Sheikhzadeh is a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU. He is the program director of the graduate program of ergonomics and biomechanics offered by the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh is also the director and principle investigator for government funding grants for the Educational Research Center at NYU Langone, which is a part of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health–sponsored New York and New Jersey Education and Research Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh has conducted research extensively, focusing on ergonomics and biomechanics, with an interest in product evaluation and human performance assessment. He is a certified industrial ergonomist at the Oxford Research Institute, and a member of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. Learn more about Dr. Sheikhzadeh Hope Mowery, PhD, HSP, Psychologist Research Coordinator Dr. Mowery is a licensed psychologist with expertise in health psychology. She received her PhD in clinical psychology from Indiana University in 2010 and completed her internship and fellowship at Geisinger Medical Center in Pennsylvania in 2011. She has extensive experience in the practice of mindfulness and behavioral and cognitive behavioral therapies as well as multiple areas of health psychology. She has worked with diverse groups of adults with various health concerns and in several different settings, including primary care, inpatient consultation and therapy, outpatient clinics, and telehealth. She has trained in acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), cognitive processing therapy (CPT), motivational interviewing (MI), and dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). She evaluates the people she treats from a biopsychosocial perspective and provides education and evidence-based therapy. Dina Shah, PT, Clinical Specialist Ms. Shah graduated from Daemen College in 2001 with a bachelor's degree in physical therapy. Ms. Shah has more than 12 years of clinical orthopedic experience and is a licensed physical therapist in New York, New Jersey, and Canada. Ms. Shah is also a certified strength and conditioning specialist. Ka Hing Chow, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Chow is a staff physical therapist. She earned her doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University in 2010. The year before she was an intern in our clinic, where she was trained in interdisciplinary care and the biopsychosocial approach to prevent chronicity and disability. She is a New York State–licensed physical therapist. Zihao Du, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Du earned his doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University Brooklyn and graduated with a master’s degree in nutrition and food studies from New York University. He is highly motivated to continue developing his clinical, interpersonal, and social skills to deliver high-quality care and promote rehabilitation and wellness. Cindy Ozuna, Departmental Secretary Cindy is the front desk supervisor and is highly knowledgeable in the service standards of NYU Langone. Cynthia Reyes, Secretary I Cynthia assists patients at the front desk and has worked at NYU Langone for more than 23 years. Joel Toby, Rehabilitation Attendant As a rehabilitation attendant, Joel assists in the safety of our patients and the maintenance of the gym and gym equipment. The ergonomic product consulting services at provide usability evaluation for existing products as well as prototypes for product lines. Our research staff uses direct objective and indirect subjective methods for usability testing and to improve performance and design. Our experts have consulted with numerous firms for biomechanical and ergonomic product evaluation. Services we offer include the following: assessing force capabilities and excessive forces or identifying pressure on surfaces three-dimensional motion tracking to assess motion patterns and postural deviations electromyography testing to assess muscle activity in terms of onset, relative effort, and fatigue indirect measurements, such as interviews, focus group meetings, and surveys, to provide essential information for the development and evaluation of a product Our product design and evaluation service enables designers and small businesses to submit their products to high-quality testing. The results can be used to demonstrate adherence to safety guidelines and comfort, giving the product an edge in performance and marketing. An ergonomic assessment is also necessary for medical device approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and to adhere to functional performance criteria set by Section 508 under the Rehabilitation Act. Experts from can design a corporate ergonomics program to assist employers who want to improve the comfort and wellbeing of current employees and those returning to work after an injury or impairment. Employers participating in our corporate ergonomics program receive services designed to solve the ergonomic issues at their workplace. It’s a participatory approach—we bring together all appropriate stakeholders who work collaboratively with our team to assess what risks are more prevalent in the workplace and then choose the most effective and sound ergonomic solutions to mitigate or eliminate those risks. These solutions may include the following. Ergonomics Evaluation and Recommendation Our experts conduct evaluations to gain insight into different aspects of the work, from organizational culture to the breakdown of job tasks and activities. This process may include focus groups to better understand risk factors associated with injuries as well as a review of the company’s injury surveillance rate, if that data is available. If it is not, our team researches data from a similar industry or helps your company establish an injury surveillance system. Based on the needs identified from this information, our specialists can design an effective corporate ergonomics program. Education and Training Programs Our specialists can train and educate your safety and occupational health staff in the prevention of musculoskeletal injuries. Our programs encourage autonomy in educating your workforce. In collaboration with your staff, we prepare on-site training adapted to meet the needs of management, unions, and employees. We offer group lectures on a variety of topics, such as safety at work and psychosocial stressors in the workplace. Our programs also offer on-site training that covers topics such as ergonomic awareness and combine lectures, exercises, and discussions in an interactive, small group format to improve health and employee satisfaction. We can help you design, implement, and maintain ongoing injury prevention programs in your workplace. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH Despite the improved survival rate for patients with breast cancer over the past several decades, disparities in mortality rates between White and Black patients have not changed , and a significant gap still exists. Breast surgeon , is focused on eliminating this gap. Here, Dr. Joseph, who serves as clinical systems lead for NYU Langone Health’s co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program , reflects on how the recent updates to screening recommendations impact Black women and spotlights an often-overlooked tool: the early risk assessment. Changing Guidelines Prompt Questions The screening guidelines for mammograms have changed over the last few years. Can you share why you think these changes don’t go far enough? Dr. Joseph: Last year, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) lowered the age at which all women can begin breast cancer screening to 40. It’s great that the USPSTF lowered the screening age for all women, but the recommendation is still for screening every other year. Plus, the guidelines make no mention of risk assessment. If you have a family history, you’re not going to wait until 40, you may need to start screening earlier, you may need to get genetic testing, you may need additional breast imaging, such as an MRI. “All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer.” All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer so that they know when they should start screening. Primary Care Conversations Your research focuses on disparities in screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black women. What does this research tell us? Our research has found that Black women tend to be diagnosed with breast cancer at a younger age than White women and have a 42 percent greater risk of death from breast cancer than White women if diagnosed before age 50. They are also more likely than White women to get a diagnosis without having had a single screening exam. Before the guidelines changed, I and a group of breast surgical oncologists led a multicenter study Annals of Surgical Oncology that advocated that Black women needed to be screened earlier. Because Black women experience higher rates of breast cancer diagnoses before age 50, and are at greater risk for more-aggressive disease, initiating risk assessments and screening earlier can make a significant impact on closing those care gaps. “Primary care physicians must inquire about a patient’s family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community.” We also found there’s education that needs to happen with primary care doctors and obstetrician–gynecologists. Sometimes we see young women with breast cancer who have multiple family members with breast cancer but have never been referred for genetic testing. Primary care physicians must inquire about the family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community. Not initiating conversations with Black women about family history, risk, and screening opportunities perpetuates the current care gaps. Community Engagement to Improve Screening Your team is working to identify and educate underserved women who would benefit from breast cancer screening. Can you talk more about the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program? The program started as purely community engagement, but it morphed into something much bigger. We started by placing nonclinical patient navigators in the community , engaging women where they work, live, and socialize. The goal is to help educate women in the community on their risk and care options and then help them schedule appointments for mammograms and further diagnostic screening if needed. If they are diagnosed, that same navigator helps them along their entire cancer journey, including access to services if they are uninsured. As word spread among other community-based organizations, it became clear that some women who are diagnosed with breast cancer don’t have the means to travel in for treatment or deal with insurance issues. Now, we not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics in Brooklyn and Bellevue assisting patients with travel plans, insurance claims, and more. So far, we’ve had over 20,000 encounters. “We not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics.” Genetic testing and counseling are also part of the Welters Program; we felt it was important to have this available for all our patients, especially those who lack health insurance. We have two dedicated genetic counselors and a genetic counseling assistant as part of our program. If there’s one takeaway message from your work in this area, what would that be? Physicians should be vigilant about conducting breast cancer risk assessments for all women, but Black women are at an increased risk. It is important for them to not only get screened and examined annually beginning at 40, but they also need to have a risk assessment done no later than the age of 30. Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and population health, vice chair of diversity and health equity in surgery, clinical systems lead for the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, and co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on breast cancer screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black and other medically underserved women. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care Undetected hearing issues can result in poor communication between patient and provider and become an obstacle to care, says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. To assess the feasibility and potential benefit of one intervention, Dr. Chodosh and a team of researchers led a providing a simple hearing assistance device to patients age 60 and older who reported difficulty hearing during a Veterans Affairs (VA) emergency department (ED) visit. The researchers have now received VA funding to move forward with an expanded national study. “If a patient can’t hear well, they don’t always leave the ED with a good understanding of their problem or what they need after ED care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “When you’re using more cognitive effort to listen, that amount of effort is no longer dedicated to taking in, working with, processing, and encoding information—being engaged in the moment.” The Case for Personal Amplifiers HEAR-VA pilot study followed 133 veterans who presented to the ED of New York Harbor Manhattan VA Medical Center and were likely to be discharged to home. Enrolled patients either said that they had difficulty hearing or scored 10 or greater on the Hearing Handicap Inventory-Survey. Participants were randomized to no intervention or to receive a personal amplifier (PA), the Williams Sound Pocketalker 2.0, for use during their ED visit. Three short survey instruments were used: a Hearing and Understanding Questionnaire to gauge ability to understand without effort; a Care Transitions Survey to measure the patient’s readiness for discharge; and a Patient Understanding of Discharge Information survey. Following discharge, the researchers conducted surveys and post-visit phone calls to assess ED revisits. “There’s a critical qualitative piece to this,” Dr. Chodosh says. “We’ve had a lot of experiential and anecdotal evidence, but we want to find out if the PA device helps a patient interact with information in a more productive way.” Veterans with hearing difficulties reported improved ED experiences with use of PAs. Additionally, researchers found PAs might reduce the need to return to the ED within three days—suggesting a tangible improvement in patient outcomes as well as experience. “If you’re in the ED and you come back within three days, it may be because critical self-management information was not heard correctly, if at all. It’s easier to communicate with patients who are using amplifiers.” The VA as Study Site Dr. Chodosh explains why the team chose a VA medical center to conduct its research: “The VA has a history of geriatrics innovations; they place high importance on age-related care. Veterans are amazing—they are often easier to recruit as they have a high degree of volunteerism. In addition, audiology visits are among the most frequent visits for veterans outside of primary care.” One of the primary reasons many patients don’t pursue getting hearing aids is the cost, Dr. Chodosh adds. “The VA produces a great natural experiment because cost is no barrier—at least in some facilities, hearing amplifiers are a known commodity that can be ordered through the patient health record.” Validating the Pilot In the larger implementation trial, six national VA sites will roll out in phases over 40 months. The first phase is a repeat of the efficacy trial with a larger sample size: 400 veterans over a nine-month period of enrollment. “After the randomized efficacy period, anyone whose screening indicates hearing impairment will get an amplifier if they want it,” Dr. Chodosh says. With each progressive phase, the facilities will take on more responsibility for screening, distributing, and fitting hearing amplifiers. Research assistants will continue to conduct discharge surveys and will evaluate facility involvement. “Hearing is one of those things that we don’t see as healthcare-related in primary medical care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Geriatricians have an important educational role to play in making everyone aware of just how critically important it is to be able to hear, and the downstream negative consequences when you can’t hear without additional effort.” Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Palliative care addresses the challenges of advanced kidney disease through provision of expert symptom control, assistance with complex medical decision-making, and facilitation of advance care planning. Internationally, ambulatory kidney palliative care clinics report positive outcomes—yet this approach is rare in the U.S., and little data exists on its effectiveness. “Our program is one of the few of its kind in this country,” says , director of the Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Renal Disease Support) Program, an ambulatory palliative care clinic embedded in NYU Langone Health’s Nephrology Faculty Group Practice. “We believe this model can benefit many patients,” adds Dr. Scherer, who is double boarded in nephrology and palliative care, “but it’s essential to develop a set of best practices to guide practitioners in a wide range of settings.” Capturing the Value of Ambulatory Services In October 2021, a team led by Dr. Scherer published the first U.S. study of patient and caregiver experiences receiving ambulatory palliative care specific to kidney disease. The study, published in the American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Medicine , included semi-structured interviews with eight patients and three caregivers addressing two themes: 1) communication about the emotional and physical aspects of disease, and 2) filling gaps in care. Under the first theme, participants reported that empathic communication from clinic providers was effective in leading to a better understanding of the life changes associated with advanced kidney disease. Such communication also strengthened patients’ ability to cope with their illness, fostering optimism and a proactive approach to their own care. Under the second theme, participants identified gaps in their care that were addressed at the clinic—particularly, symptom management and engagement in advance care planning. The search for symptom relief was a primary factor influencing participants’ decision to attend the clinic. Improvements in pain management were noted by most patients; one reported that this change had “turned my life around.” Many participants engaged in advance care planning during clinic visits, often for the first time. The majority of patient respondents were age 65 or older, representative of the general clinic population. “End-stage renal disease is far more often a disease of aging,” says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care. “This research exemplifies the value of our integrated focus on improving symptom management and goals of care across geriatrics and palliative care patient populations—and identifying what may be unique needs of older patients.” The Road Ahead Dr. Scherer says that further research is needed to determine the optimal model of care for kidney palliative care in the U.S.—as well as how to dispel widespread misperceptions that palliative care pertains only to end-of-life care. In a future study, she and colleagues plan to focus on providing rigorous evidence for integration of palliative care through randomized controlled trials testing the effectiveness of this approach to care. Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S .” “Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S.,” Dr. Scherer observes. “I hope these data can be of value to other [health systems] seeking to develop more patient-centered models of care for those living with kidney disease.” Palliative Care, Nephrology Jennifer S. Scherer, MD, is medical director of the Lower Manhattan Dialysis Center and an assistant professor of medicine. Her clinical and research interests center on developing a model of care that effectively integrates palliative care and nephrology, with the goal of achieving improved quality of life, coordination of care, and patient-driven decision-making. Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Revolutionizing Brain Tumor Diagnosis Advanced optical imaging and AI combined could empower neurosurgeons to deliver a new level of care. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries An unprecedented system will accelerate insights for surgeons. Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice New research evidences benefits for patients with ≥25 brain metastases. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Patients who discontinued therapy due to toxicity and those with certain mutations were more likely to develop new tumors. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery At NASBS, surgical leaders make the case for teamwork as a critically important—and deliberate—practice to achieve optimal outcomes. Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth A multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. In a complex fetal surgery procedure performed at at NYU Langone, a multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. CHAOS is an extremely rare and serious birth defect that inhibits the child’s ability to breathe at birth. In this present case, a prenatal ultrasound scan at 24 weeks of gestation identified the complete blockage in the trachea. Without intervention, mortality is 100 percent. “The ultrasound revealed large, overinflated lungs, which can indicate CHAOS,” says , vice chair for clinical affairs–obstetrics and co-director of the . “As a result of the airway blockage, the lung fluid cannot escape the fetal mouth, causing the lungs to fill up immensely and swell.” The highly specialized delivery, known as EXIT (ex-utero intrapartum treatment)-to-airway, takes advantage of the uteroplacental blood flow and maternal-fetal gas exchange while the baby’s trachea is secured. Full delivery and ventilation followed. The mother, Yadi, had comorbidities—her BMI was 31, she had the Prothrombin gene mutation, and she was on 40 mg of Lovenox daily prior to the surgery. Yadi also had four subsequent miscarriages, polycystic ovary syndrome, and stage 4 endometriosis. “As the operation begins, the mother receives deep general anesthesia to achieve complete uterine relaxation,” says Dr. Roman. “Uterine flaccidity is necessary to preserve uteroplacental blood flow, although this poses the serious risk of severe hemorrhage in the event of placental abruption, so this is high risk to both mom and baby.” The EXIT Procedure The goal of the EXIT procedure is to establish an airway before the umbilical cord is cut, avoiding immediate crisis and allowing for a more stable transition from placental circulation to newborn circulation. Planning for EXIT treatment depends on early detection of the fetal anomaly. In this case, the procedure was scheduled for gestational week 35. Over 25 NYU Langone providers from maternal–fetal medicine, neonatology, pediatric surgery, pediatric ENT, and pediatric anesthesiology collaborated to plan the EXIT procedure. “CHAOS is an apt acronym for this condition; there is zero room for failure,” says , director of Children’s Surgical Services and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery . “As soon as we learned of the diagnosis, we initiated a multidisciplinary team to begin the months of preparation.” “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway.” While the fetus’ head and neck were extracted from the uterus, Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and co-director of the , first attempted rigid scope. With that method failing given the full blockage, a successful tracheostomy was performed. Baby Aydin Idris Martin was successfully delivered, but the care team discovered his lungs were inflated because of the airway obstruction. This put pressure on his heart, affecting its ability to function properly. Moments after the EXIT, neonatologists started to resuscitate Aydin, but it was clear his heart was not recovering. Dr. Fisher made the quick decision to initiate ECMO to support his heart and lungs. Aydin was transferred to the NICU in critical condition—still on ECMO, but with an assisted airway established. Family Commitment Is Key “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway,” says Dr. Rickert. “Every EXIT procedure can be a bit different. When you have one congenital abnormality, you may have others.” Family commitment is equally important to ensuring the baby’s optimal long-term outcome, adds Dr. Rickert. “Aydin has at least one more surgery necessary before he will be able to breathe completely on his own. We plan to keep monitoring his airway and do a reconstruction in the next few years when he’s grown a bit bigger.” Partial Delivery via C-section The baby’s head and shoulders were delivered by Cesarean section, leaving everything below the chest in utero. The mother was placed in low lithotomy position and ultrasound was used to map the fetus and placenta. The fetal head and one arm were delivered for continuous pulse oximetry, leaving the umbilical cord and placenta intact while pediatric surgeons worked to establish an airway. Because the mother had risk factors for deep vein thrombosis, every precaution was taken to prevent bleeding. Tracheostomy Needed to Bypass Airway Blockage The pediatric otolaryngology team completes a tracheostomy. One of the biggest challenges posed prior to Aydin’s birth was not fully understanding the extent of his airway blockage. Through in utero imaging, it was determined that the airway opening was completely blocked. Once Aydin was born, the pediatric otolaryngology team quickly bypassed the blockage by placing a tracheostomy, successfully providing the intervention to complete the delivery. ECMO Required to Support Heart Recovery ECMO support is initiated. Moments after the EXIT, it was clear the baby’s heart was not recovering. Examination revealed a pneumothorax. His belly was also expanding, creating pressure on the heart and lungs. The surgical team initiated ECMO to support cardiopulmonary function and laparotomy to relieve the pressure. Additional Surgeries Needed Aydin is wheeled into the NICU, where he will spend the next 169 days overcoming obstacles and hitting milestones. Once Aydin was stable, the team made a final discovery—Aydin had an anorectal malformation. The infant underwent several additional surgeries, including surgery to correct a congenital heart defect. Scott M. Rickert, MD, is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the Pediatric Aerodigestive Center. He is also an associate professor of pediatrics, plastic surgery, and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His interests include pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing, and the development of simulation software and devices. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries In one component of a landmark program to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) into clinical practice, neuroscientists will harness some of the world’s most powerful computing technologies. The AI computing platform, developed by neurosurgeon , will be unique among neuroscience departments in the United States. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days.” “The new system will yield 7-times higher performance gains compared to previous generation systems,” says Dr. Oermann. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days—we’re able to accelerate the time to insight.” A Next Generation System Leveraging servers and hardware that are a major leap forward over previous systems, the system will deliver unprecedented computational power, reliability, and a configurable graphics processing unit topology, says Dr. Oermann. Among other applications, his research team will use the enhanced support for data and algorithms to replicate parts of human brain function in silico The leap in computing power could have immediate impact supporting AI models to help global medical teams fight COVID-19 , says Dr. Oermann. The new system was fully implemented in December 2021. Dr. Oermann’s team partners together experts from mathematics, computer science, neuroscience, informatics, linguistics, and medicine, among a range of specialties. Clinical Applications The AI research directly augments Dr. Oermann’s clinical work in treating neurological disorders and cancer, showing how machine learning investigations can become machine learning-guided interventions. one project , his team is investigating the application of AI to surgical endoscopy. “A major drawback of early endoscopy was the lack of depth perception arising from two-dimensional (2D) vision,” says Oermann. While modern three-dimensional (3D) stereo endoscopes exist, they cannot be miniaturized to the same degree as 2D endoscopes and suffer from a smaller field of view , rendering them unusable for some surgeries, he says. Dr. Oermann’s team is now using 3D glasses or a head-mounted virtual reality display combined with a deep neural network to effectively recreate 3D depth perception for the operating surgeon. Based on promising early results, Dr. Oermann believes that the enhanced endoscopic imaging has the potential to further democratize minimally invasive surgery. “The use of advanced surgical technology could help to increase access to quality surgical care for poorer communities.” This is one of many advancements ahead, he says. “We anticipate that our findings will be transferable to a range of problems across medicine and other domains.” Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Aerodigestive Society leader discusses optimizing care for children with challenging conditions. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment New trial could offer evidence backing alternative to neck dissection. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Patients experience less synkinesis, better functional outcomes. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need While revision cochlear implant (CI) surgery has been relatively uncommon, occurring at rates ranging from 4 to 10 percent , it can be expected to increase in importance as more devices implanted over the past several decades age into failure. The most common indication is hard failure, but soft failures, infection and wound complications, improper initial placement, and electrode migration or extrusion can also require a revision procedure. “These are man-made devices, so the electronics can fail for various reasons. We are often talking about devices that were placed 30 or 40 years ago,” says Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery in NYU Langone Health’s Experts in the at NYU Langone Health have been performing revision surgery for decades. In a recent retrospective review of revision CI surgeries at the center (publication forthcoming), they found that the revision procedures led to similar clinical outcomes as the original implants. They reviewed 100 surgeries in 83 patients from 2011 to 2020. When available, intraoperative X-rays were independently reviewed by an experienced otologist to determine angular depth of insertion of the CI electrode. “Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away.” “One of the concerns in these revisions is that there may be significant fibrosis. Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away,” Dr. Jethanamest says. “We wanted to examine our surgery characteristics and evaluate the outcomes.” Importance of Surgical Imaging The center’s unique approach to surgical imaging developed over the years has been essential to its success with revision procedures, Dr. Jethanamest explains. “We take X-rays of the cochlear implant while we’re still in surgery. We try to capture the implant and its coil to ensure it is in the right position and it’s holding the right shape. Based on those X-rays, we can use a technique to calculate the angular insertion depth.” Before surgery, the surgical team establishes a comprehensive plan including technique, the best approach, and the appropriate device. “We have to remove the original device safely to ensure we don’t encounter any issues with local structures. Once we’ve replaced the electrode, we perform that X-ray and neurophysiologic tests to confirm that the implant is in position.” Choosing Replacement Implants Additionally, the team has found there are nuances in choosing a new CI device for revision surgery, notes Dr. Jethanamest. “We try to match up a modern device with one that has been working well, and we take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces. The patient’s brain has adapted to a particular device, sometimes since childhood. Is it easy to do it again many years later? We don’t know.” “We take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces.” Much of the new technology comes in the external pieces, Dr. Jethanamest says, and the manufacturers typically support their legacy devices. “For the most part, replacing a device with something similar seems to work out well, even if there is brand new technology and programming algorithms with the newer devices. Surgically, finding the right size and fit and getting the electrode back into position is our main goal.” Planning for an Increase in Patient Needs Dr. Jethanamest and his team aim to catalogue and review the different types of electrodes and how they perform over time, including new devices that continually become smaller and smarter. “For now, they are around 1 millimeter in diameter,” he says. “The question is, someday, when one of the slim ones fails, will we have even slimmer ones or different form factors altogether? Maybe something a little more rigid would help, but the flexible ones work