May 2023 1 New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment Template SECTION A. SUMMARY 1. Title of project Pediatric Congenital Heart Center move to 577 First Avenue 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Jenné Massie, DrPH, MS • Melissa Corrado, MBA • Sydne Ashford 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has nearly 30 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with 20 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is a professor and Chair of the Department of Urban Education at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health May 2023 2 equity. Jenné Massie is the Deputy Director of the Intersectionality Research Institute and a Faculty Senior Research Associate and Project Director for the MOCHA Lab at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She also serves as a Commissioner of the DC Department of Health Regional Planning Commission on Health and HIV and the Chair of the Community Engagement and Education Committee. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. Sydne Ashford is a Consulting Associate in CohnReznick’s Healthcare Industry Practice. She serves ambulatory care facilities, such as Federally Qualified Health Centers, hospitals, and mental health focused organizations, and specializes in Medicaid rate setting and cost reporting, financial and regulatory reporting, financial feasibility studies, and financial and operational performance. She also supports program development and strategic business planning efforts. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 04/17/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 06/18/2024 7. Executive summary of project (250 words max) The proposed project involves relocating all existing services of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to 577 First Ave, New York, NY, which is directly across the street of its current location. The current location is on the 7th floor of the main hospital. The new location will have the same services and be on the ground floor. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) May 2023 3 All patients and caregivers were in support of the move. They said moving the Center from a 7th floor location to a ground level space will reduce physical barriers and ease access to services. One of the groups most impacted by the proposed relocation are congenital heart patients and caregivers experiencing limited mobility, including those using wheelchairs, walkers, and strollers. Also impacted will be immunocompromised patients and/or patients awaiting surgeries. They will no longer be put at risk of possible infection or delays in surgeries if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by other patients needing to reach other floors. One stakeholder was concerned about how transfers to emergency services will be managed and related staffing. Other stakeholders wanted to ensure that appointment reminders communicate the new location to patients and caregivers and the availability of access to resources or supplies patients need during the visit. All these concerns are addressed in the monitoring and mitigation plan. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT For all questions in Section B, please include sources, data, and information referenced whenever possible. If the Independent Entity determines a question is not applicable to the project, write N/A and provide justification. STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area: Complete the “Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2” in the document “HEIA Data Tables”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance about what each Scoping Table Sheet requires. See Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2 in the “Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Scoping Sheets” document. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project: ❑ Low income people ❑ Racial and ethnic minorities ❑ Immigrants ❑ Women ❑ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people ❑ People with disabilities ❑ Older adults ❑ Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition ❑ Persons living in rural areas ❑ People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits ❑ People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage ❑ Other people who are unable to obtain health care May 2023 4 ❑ Not listed (specify): 3. For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? We leveraged the Applicant’s internal data and the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center’s direct knowledge of the patient population to identify the medically underserved groups that would be impacted by the project. While robust internal data is collected, it did not reflect immigration or disability status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Immigrants American Community Survey, 2022 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2022 • People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits American Community Survey, 2022 Overall, a combination of internal and external data sources was used to identify the medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project. 4. How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? The proposed project involves relocating the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a building directly across the street, where it will occupy a space on the ground level at 577 First Ave, New York, NY. This move will enhance the patient experience for patients and their caregivers in several ways. Moving the Center to a ground level space will reduce physical barriers and simplify the journey to care, which is often a stressful experience for patients and their caregivers. Based on stakeholder input, the groups most affected by the proposed move of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to the first floor location across the street are Congenital Heart Center patients and their caregivers who experience limited mobility as well as immunocompromised patients. Patients using wheelchairs, stretchers, medical equipment, etc. will have easier access to services since they will not have to navigate elevators and other barriers as they now must to access the current 7th floor location. May 2023 5 Immunocompromised patients and/or patients awaiting surgeries will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by patients needing to reach other floors. This is critical leading up to a child’s surgery because children need to be free of infection. If they are exposed to pathogens, their procedures dates may be pushed back. When the Independent Entity assessed the impact on patients, we also noted who comprises the patient population. As indicated in the response to question 5, almost half of patients are on Medicaid as their primary source of payment, and as Medicaid serves as a proxy for low incomes, low income people and people who are receive public health benefits will also be impacted by this move. Additionally, since over a third of patients identified as racial and/or ethnic minorities and as women, racial and ethnic minorities and women will also be impacted by the greater ease of access and reduced pathogen threat. The stakeholder engagement did not reveal any specific impacts for these medically underserved groups. Although we were unable to obtain input from them during the stakeholder engagement, the relocation may also have a positive impact on immigrants, especially those who might find large hospital buildings challenging to navigate due to language barriers or unfamiliarity with complex healthcare settings. 5. To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? Of the patients seen by NYULH’s Pediatric Congenital Heart Center within the service area in Fiscal Year 2023, relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment (with Medicaid as primary source of payment serving as a proxy for low income population), identified as racial or ethnic minorities, and identified as women. Although the Applicant expects that improvements to patient satisfaction and a more accessible facility will attract new patients to NYULH, the Applicant anticipates that the service utilization proportion among all medically underserved groups will remain constant following the relocation of Center. As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to immigrants and disabled populations. Therefore, the Independent Entity is unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to these groups. 6. What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? Within the service area, congenital heart centers/clinics (both pediatric and adult) are located (Source: respective hospitals’ websites): Hospital Location May 2023 6 The NewYork Presbyterian Congenital Heart Center at NewYork Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital and NewYork Presbyterian Komansky Children’s Hospital’s Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens Mount Sinai Children's Heart Center Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx Mount Sinai Adult Congenital Heart Disease Center Manhattan, Long Island Cohen Children’s Northwell Health Queens Northwell Health Adult Congenital Heart Program Manhattan, Long Island The Children’s Hospital at Montefiore Adult Congenital Heart Disease (includes Pediatrics) Bronx Cornell Center for Adult Congenital Heart Disease Manhattan 7. What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? According to volume data from SPARCS, in 2022, the Applicant’s Manhattan location held a market share in the service area, up from in 2021. For the purposes of this project, market share is defined as the pool of pediatric patients with cardiovascular surgery/cardiovascular disease within the project service area, which is defined as Kings, New York, and Queens counties. As Tables 1 and 2 demonstrate, between 2021 and 2022, pediatric cardiovascular disease patient volume increased by 0. in New York State and decreased by 2. in the service area. Facilities serving patients in the service area observed varied trends in patient volumes from CY21 to CY22, with some experiencing increases while others saw declines. NYU Langone Health increased patient volume by 8. in the service area during this period. It is difficult to project future market share because there are no publicly available data for clinic visits for which the Applicant can use as a baseline for market share assumptions. Additionally, market share assumptions are difficult to ascertain because a hospital’s market position in any given service line also will depend largely on the activities of other hospitals (e.g., strategic service line expansions/closures), which generally cannot be predicted. May 2023 7 Table 1: Volume and Percent Change in Pediatric Cardiovascular Disease Patients by NY State Area and Facility (2022 2023) Hospital SystemFacility Name2021 Volume 2022 Volume % DifferenceBronxCareBronx Lebanon Hospital Center Concourse Div108 20.Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center91122.St. Charles Hospital & Rehab Center110.St. Francis Hospital The Heart Center3433.Bellevue Hospital Center81137.Elmhurst Hospital Center107 30.Harlem Hospital Center550.Jacobi Medical Center97 22.Kings County Hospital Center98 11.Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center65 16.Metropolitan Hospital Center3Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center1MaimonidesMaimonides Medical Center3332 3.Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center3Flushing Hospital Medical Center220.Jamaica Hospital Medical Center5Montefiore Hutchinson Campus21 50.Montefiore Medical Center Moses Division13590 33.White Plains Hospital Center31 66.Mount Sinai Hospital10511610.Mount Sinai Morningside2Mount Sinai West1Richmond University Medical Center81137.South Nassau Communities Hospital24100.David H. Koch Center For Cancer Care1Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center163 81.Cohen Children's Medical Center176163 7.Forest Hills Hospital121958.Lenox Hill Hospital54 20.Long Island Jew ish Medical Center12100.Manhattan Eye, Ear, & Throat Hospital21 50.Nassau University Medical Center26200.North Shore University Hospital83 62.Northern Westchester Hospital1Northw ell Health Center for Advanced Medicine1Plainview Hospital24100.South Shore Amb Surg Center1Staten Island University Hospital1412 14.NYP Brooklyn Methodist Hospital121633.NYP Columbia2232449.NYP Cornell8882 6.NYP Law rence Hospital1NYP Low er Manhattan Hospital3NYP Queens319533.Long Island Community Hospital3NYU Brooklyn65 16.NYU Langone Medical Center10812414.NYU Long Island142792.NYU Long Island ASC1Ambulatory Surgery Center of Westchester1Blythedale Childrens Hospital2East Hills Surgery Center, LLC1Long Island Surgicenter Inc.1New York Center For Ambulatory Surgery1The Brooklyn Hospital Center2350.Wyckoff Heights Medical Center31 66.Stony BrookStony Brook University Hospital1633106.SUNYSUNY Dow nstate Medical Center990.WMC HealthWestchester Medical Center10483 20.1,2011,2050.MSKCCCHSHHCMedisys HealthMontefioreMount SinaiNorthw ellNYPNYUOtherGrand Total May 2023 8 Table 2: Volume and Percent Change in Pediatric Cardiovascular Disease Patients in the Service Area by Facility (2022 2023) 8. Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to NYULH, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit Hospital SystemFacility Name2021 Volume 2022 Volume % DifferenceBellevue Hospital Center6.09.050.Elmhurst Hospital Center9.07.0 22.Harlem Hospital Center4.02.0 50.Kings County Hospital Center9.08.0 11.Metropolitan Hospital Center1.0Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center1.0MaimonidesMaimonides Medical Center31.029.0 6.Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center3.0Flushing Hospital Medical Center2.02.00.Jamaica Hospital Medical Center5.0MontefioreMontefiore Medical Center Moses Division10.06.0 40.Mount Sinai Hospital56.055.0 1.Mount Sinai Morningside1.0Richmond University Medical Center1.0MSKCCMemorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center6.02.0 66.Cohen Children's Medical Center66.069.04.Forest Hills Hospital12.017.041.Lenox Hill Hospital4.02.0 50.Manhattan Eye, Ear, & Throat Hospital2.0Nassau University Medical Center1.0North Shore University Hospital3.0Plainview Hospital2.0Staten Island University Hospital2.0NYP Brooklyn Methodist Hospital12.015.025.NYP Columbia71.058.0 18.NYP Cornell65.056.0 13.NYP Low er Manhattan Hospital3.0NYP Queens2.018.0800.NYU Brooklyn5.05.00.NYU Langone Medical Center67.073.08.New York Center For Ambulatory Surgery1.0The Brooklyn Hospital Center2.03.050.Wyckoff Heights Medical Center3.01.0 66.SUNYSUNY Dow nstate Medical Center6.06.00.WMC HealthWestchester Medical Center1.01.00.465.0454.0 2.OtherGrand TotalHHCMedisys HealthMount SinaiNorthw ellNYPNYU May 2023 9 healthcare system, the Applicant’s stated mission above all is to provide the highest quality healthcare that patients deserve. The Applicant provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay and has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. In addition, the Applicant offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23. (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement the Applicant received for that care in FY23.) The Applicant’s Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). The Applicant’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Description of the number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in this facility compared to the total number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in the region. The Applicant is projecting that of visits at the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center will be for Medicaid patients in year one. (Total payor mix includes Medicare, Commercial, Medicaid, and other.) According to US Census data, at the New York state level, the payer mix in 2022 was 42. public health insurance coverage (19. Medicare alone or in combination and 28. Medicaid alone or in combination), 65. private health insurance coverage, and 4. uninsured. Description of how this compares to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents for this facility compared to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents in the region. N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 9. Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. Since there will be no changes to the services offered as a result of the project, the Applicant expects no negative impacts. That said, the Applicant will need to increase staff as patient volume increases. (They currently expect a increase in patient volume year over year.) The Applicant indicates that they will have a comprehensive recruitment plan in place well before the opening of the relocated Center. Their planning process includes evaluating patient volume trends and a care model that supports both inpatient and outpatient services. They regularly assess staffing needs based on patient volume and service demands to ensure they have the right number and type of staff. Additionally, they indicated that they engage in recruitment and retention initiatives, such as offering competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment, to attract and retain talent. This approach is in keeping with best practices in the healthcare field. May 2023 10As noted in the Meaningful Engagement sections, some stakeholders did say they were concerned about whether there would be adequate staffing and, for one staff stakeholder, if the move would require providers and staff to go back and forth between the new location and services across the street. The Applicant indicated they regularly assess staffing needs based on patient volume, service demands, and staff experience to ensure they have the right number and type of staff. Also, while there may be some necessary travel between locations to ensure continuity of staff for patients, that will be through planned and coordinated visits that focus on organized transitions of care, rather than urgent, unplanned movements. This approach is similar to that of other hospitals operating through multiple locations in an urban environment. 10. Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. Following is a summary of civil rights access complaints against the Applicant, including a summary of the complaint and the current status of the complaint. Note that these are not specific to Pediatric Congenital Heart Center. • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation: ▪ 1 related to disability access ▪ 2 related to gender discrimination • 11 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed ▪ 5 related to disability discrimination ▪ 1 related to national origin discrimination ▪ 2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color ▪ 1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation o 1 related to discrimination on the basis of disability, military status, national origin, domestic violence victim status, relationship or association, and opposed discrimination/retaliation is pending an open investigation 11. Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. The applicant has submitted CON 191204 HCH 7 Congenital Heart Program. This was submitted as a Limited Review CON application for relocating the Congenital Cardiac Ambulatory Care Program from the Fink Ambulatory Center located at 150 East 32nd May 2023 11Street to the 7th floor of the Kimmel Pavilion. The applicant received DOH approval for this project on 10/11/2019. In addition, the Applicant received Regional Office approval to occupy as of 10/22/21. Prior to the current location of the Center, the service was located at a site 3 blocks away. As a result of this project, the Applicant was able to expand access to congenital heart services to meet growing patient need. The project enabled the Applicant to see ambulatory patients for physician visits, diagnostic testing, pre and post surgical procedure visits, and education in a single location. The project facilitated patients’ access to necessary services, reduced the need to navigate multiple clinical areas, improved scheduling multiple appointments and coordinating continuity of care. Based on the project description, we assume it positively improved patient experience for all medically underserved groups, most likely people with disabilities who could more easily access services in a single location; immigrants who no longer had to navigate multiple locations and arrange for transportation and interpreter services; and low income people who no longer had to miss work and accrue additional expenses due to having to come to multiple visits. The Applicant is moving Congenial Heart services again to accommodate a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) expansion. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a. Improve access to services and health care b. Improve health equity c. Reduce health disparities The relocation of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a ground level space at 577 First Ave, New York, NY will increase access to healthcare services for all patients, including medically underserved groups. The move increase access to services by eliminating the need for patients and their caregivers to navigate through multiple levels, offering immediate access from street level. This will be beneficial for people with mobility issues who will no longer have to travel to the 7th floor and/or immunocompromised patients who will not have to risk exposure to pathogens riding in in elevators with other people. It will also be easier for people who find it difficult to navigate complex hospital layouts, such as immigrants and people with limited English proficiency. By removing physical and logistical barriers, the project will help ensure that all patients have equal opportunities to access care, supporting a more equitable healthcare environment. As the services and resources provided will remain the same, the Applicant expects no changes in health disparities. However, as the project is implemented, the Applicant will May 2023 12monitor outcomes, including assessing any health disparities that may arise and must be addressed. 2. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. Unintended Positive Impacts The relocation of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a ground level facility across the street will enhance physical accessibility, which is a positive impact for health equity. Immediate street level access will aid: • People with disabilities, who will benefit from not having to navigate multiple floors, thereby reducing physical strain and simplifying their access to care. • Patients who are immunocompromised and/or awaiting surgeries who will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by other patients needing to reach other floors. • Immigrants, who might otherwise find large hospital buildings daunting due to language barriers or unfamiliarity with complex healthcare settings, can now access the Center more directly. Unintended Negative Impact One stakeholder was concerned that being outside of the main hospital would delay or limit access to emergency services for patients who are identified as needing life saving support when at the Center. The Independent Entity verified that the Applicant has a standard process that they have regularly used to transfer patients between locations for emergencies to the hospital. It includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. In the past 12 months at the Center, there have been zero cardiac arrests or code resuscitations. Because some transfers are billed services, the Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are unable to pay. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) Other stakeholders expressed concerns about obtaining supplies needed to support families with infants (e.g., breast pump, formula, diapers) during lengthy visits at the Center, which are currently accessible from other departments within the hospital; however, the Independent Entity verified that these resources and supplies, as with all currently available resources and supplies, will be available at the new location. 3. How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. May 2023 13Upon evaluation of the Applicant’s projected budget and operational forecasts, it is anticipated that the amount of indigent care currently provided by the Applicant will increase proportionally with the growth factor of volume of . The Center’s relocation and subsequent operational adjustments are designed to maintain existing service levels. Therefore, we do not foresee any change in the provision of indigent care due to this project. The Applicant covered approximately $93 million in charity care in FY23. 4. Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant’s service(s) or care if the project is implemented. The access by public and private transportation is expected to remain unchanged by the proposed project. As the project will move Center locations to across the street (less than ~600 feet away), it is anticipated that patients will use the same public transportation options to get to their appointments. Some patients may take public transportation such as subway, bus, and ferry, and some use Access A Ride Paratransit Services, provided by the MTA. For those taking the subway, the closest MTA Subway station will remain the 6 train at 33rd Street. The M34 and M34A Select Bus Service stops at 34th Street and 1st Avenue, in close proximity to both the current Center sites and the hospital campus. The buses also make a stop at the East 34th Street Pier, which can accommodate travelers from the New York City ferry. 5. Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. There are no architectural barriers in the current facility, as Kimmel Pavilion, inclusive of the 7th floor, was built under the 2008 NYC Building Code including Chapter 11 Accessibility, and as such is compliant with the ICC A117.1 (Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities.) ANSI A117.1 is consistent with both ADA regulations and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines, and, as a publication by the International Code Council (ICC), it is compatible with the International Building Code. The relocation is not related to mitigating any existing barriers. The new space at 577 1st Ave will also be built per all current ADA regulations. 6. Describe how implementation of the project will impact the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services, as that term is used in Public Health Law § 2599 aa, including contraception, sterility procedures, and abortion. How will the project impact the availability and provision of reproductive and maternal health care services in the service area? How will the Applicant mitigate any potential disruptions in service availability? May 2023 14N/A. The project has no impact on the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services. Meaningful Engagement 7. List the local health department(s) located within the service area that will be impacted by the project. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH) 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? We reached out to our contacts at NYC DOHMH who spoke with us for the previous HEIA we conducted and were informed of their new protocol for requesting an interview for an HEIA. We submitted their online intake form for the current HEIA providing them with the following information: • CON applicant name, operating certificate number, applicant type, and type of project indicating this is a change in location of services with the Congenital Heart Center being relocated • Zip codes served by the facility; no change to zip codes served as a result of this project • List of medically underserved groups that will be impacted • Description of the project However, they no longer will consider being interviewed without also receiving the bulk of the completed HEIA. We declined to provide the additional materials since they are not the entity to whom we are required to submit the HEIA, and there is no guarantee that they will agree to be interviewed. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders: Complete the “Meaningful Engagement” table in the document titled “HEIA Data Table”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance. See Meaningful Engagement table in HEIA Data Table attached. 10. Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern the project or offered relevant input? Based on stakeholder input, the groups most affected by the proposed move of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to the first floor location across the street are May 2023 15congenital heart patients experiencing limited mobility, immunocompromised patients, or patients awaiting surgeries. Patients using wheelchairs, stretchers, medical equipment, etc. will have easier access to services since they don’t have to navigate elevators and other barriers to getting to the current 7th floor location. Immunocompromised patients or patients awaiting surgeries who will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by patients needing to reach other floors. Stakeholders expressed four main concerns about the move. The first was that the new location being outside of the main hospital would delay access to emergency services for patients who are identified as needing life saving support when at the Center. The next concern was ensuring supplies needed to support families with infants (e.g., breast pump, formula, diapers) during lengthy visits at the Center are still available, which are currently accessible from other departments within the hospital. Both staff and patients were also eager to know if there would be sufficient medical and support staff (both their clinical care team and social workers/child life specialists) to accommodate the new location. Additionally, one patient had a security concern about the move to a first floor location and if that would make visitors to the Center vulnerable to individuals not associated with the hospital walking in more easily off the street. These concerns are described in greater detail with supporting quotes in Question 11. 11. How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? As part of our meaningful engagement of stakeholders, we: • Conducted stakeholder interviews • Conducted a survey • Reached out to local community based organizations We contacted 13 patients and caregivers for interviews. Of those, four agreed to be interviewed and completed the interviews. Of the four patients and caregivers we interviewed, three are members of racial and/or ethnic minorities. We also interviewed one social worker who works with patients and caregivers served by the Center. Given the difficulties securing interviews, we also developed and released an online survey, available in English and Spanish. We posted flyers in English and Spanish with a QR code directing patients to the survey in the waiting area of the Center. The survey was live for 17 days. Three patients completed it. We also reached out to two local community based organizations to elicit their thoughts on the move; however, we did not get a response from either group after multiple attempts to reach them. May 2023 16From those stakeholders we engaged, we heard that the proposed move of the Center to have both positive and negative impacts on patients and their caregivers. When asked about the move, survey respondents (N=3) reported that they “liked it a lot” or “liked it a bit.” None of the survey respondents reported concerns about the move. Our stakeholder interviews revealed specific ways the move could benefit or introduce burden to the patient experience and care received. All patients were in support of the move. Caregivers recognized the benefit of a first floor location with the proposed move in terms of ease and convenience and also for eliminating exposure to pathogens in elevators. Caregivers described that it can be stressful leading up to a child’s surgery when they need to be free of infection to have to take elevators where they may be exposed to pathogens that would risk having the procedure date pushed back. “I love the first floor because it’s like you could get easy in and out. You don’t have to go through security or all of the nicks and crannies...I mean especially for younger moms who have strollers or other things. And during this COVID or post COVID era where people are coughing in elevators and different people around, and you’re trying to make sure they’re [the patient] not getting sick before your next surgery. And, you’re like, have to protect you because you don’t want them to get sick. Then they postpone it [the surgery] another couple of months.” (Caregiver of patient) The concept of ease of access was reinforced by survey participants. Two of the 3 respondents reported that