of Ophthalmology. Her clinical and research focus is on developing new ways to predict, diagnose and treat diseases of the retina. In addition to individualized physical therapy programs at , we can bring our expertise directly to your entire company. Our licensed physical therapists are available to work on-site to provide in-depth rehabilitative services. We have served a long list of clients, ranging from utility companies to financial institutions. Our physical therapists have advanced degrees in orthopedics, ergonomics, and biomechanics and are specially trained to work with people who have all types of musculoskeletal problems. A therapist can be available full or part time, depending on your company’s needs. Our services range from staff education and awareness, implementation of injury prevention programs to the development of on-site treatment interventions. , we can also tailor our medical services to meet the needs of your corporation. Our board-certified medical advisor works with the company’s medical services and safety departments on an ongoing basis to provide the highest quality care for employees. Corporate on-site medical services may include training the medical staff in the evidence-based care of people with musculoskeletal disorders, setting up a triage care system, providing informational seminars to managers and employees, and providing independent medical evaluations. Through our Corporate Stress Management Program at , our team assesses stress levels among company employees through observation or standardized questionnaires. It can then make recommendations for improving overall work satisfaction and productivity. We can work with a company’s medical and human resources departments to identify teams of workers or those in a particular department who might benefit from stress management. We can then provide customized group seminars in the workplace. As part of the Corporate Stress Management Program, we offer the following services: education about the relationship between stress and physical, psychological, and behavioral problems self-assessment and monitoring techniques to enable workers to chart their progress relaxation techniques cognitive coping techniques problem-solving strategies Sessions may also include information about time management and social skills training, when appropriate. We encourage the development of programs that your organization can maintain, and our professional staff is prepared to train select personnel in various aspects of cognitive behavioral education, so that they can serve as resources within your organization. Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 RECOVER: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery. The RECOVER study has four main questions: What does the spectrum of COVID-19 recovery look like? Who continues to have symptoms, or develops new symptoms, after acute infection? What causes post-acute sequelae? Does SARS-CoV-2 trigger biological changes that increase the risk of other conditions? ADAPTED FROM: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( RECOVER RECOVER’s Clinical Science Core oversees all national cohort sites, including 15 adult, 8 pediatric, 2 maternal–fetal medicine, 7 autopsy, and 2 electric health record sites, plus more than 200 clinical sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Funding to NYU Langone Health comprises $52 million for infrastructure and more than $400 million for allocating to sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health In February 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced the Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( ) initiative to study the growing number of suspected, and in many cases potentially severe, post-acute sequelae of COVID (PASC). That May, NYU Langone was chosen as the project’s Clinical Science Core (CSC), responsible for leading and integrating the research activities of over 200 clinical sites and 40,000 study participants nationwide. The grant to NYU Langone represents one of the largest in NIH history. The CSC is helmed by co-principal investigators , the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics; , director of the Center for Healthcare Innovation and professor of Population Health and Medicine; and Andrea B. Troxel, ScD , director of the Division of Biostatistics and professor of Population Health. In consultation with more than 100 researchers from 35 institutions, as well as patients with PASC, the CSC designed the study protocols for RECOVER’s five cohorts. By January 2022, enrollment was underway for the adult, maternal-fetal medicine, autopsy, and electronic health record cohorts, with the pediatric cohort expected to follow later in the year. “We’re asking basic questions about the pathophysiology, symptomology, and epidemiology of PASC. The answers will be crucial to solving a public health crisis affecting millions of people around the world.” Heart Failure, Cardiology Stuart D. Katz, MD, is the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics and director of the Heart Health Failure Program. His research interests focus on developing new treatments to enhance exercise capacity and quality of life in heart failure patients. Leora Horwitz, MD, is director of the Division of Healthcare Delivery Science and the Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science, as well as a professor of population health and medicine. Her research interests center on healthcare redesign and health system transformation. Biostatistics, Population Health Andrea B. Troxel, ScD, is director of the Division of Biostatistics and a professor of population health. Her research aims to develop statistical methods for longitudinal data and the design and analysis of randomized clinical trials. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Mark V. Sherrid, MD and Daniel G. Swistel, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In a study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association , researchers including cardiologist Mark V. Sherrid, MD describe a previously unreported syndrome of reversible cardiogenic shock and left ventricular (LV) ballooning in obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). A group of patients with HCM developed this syndrome, which superficially resembles an acute coronary syndrome associated with Takotsubo syndrome. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology,” Dr. Sherrid observes. “In cases of LV ballooning, obstructive HCM may be overlooked because of the dramatic presentation, because the septal thickening is mild, and because obstruction may be latent. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” Affected patients had distinctive anatomical and physiologic characteristics that set them apart from Takotsubo patients. When their treatment was tailored to the underlying etiology, it was associated with favorable outcomes. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” A New Etiology for LV Ballooning The latest study built on earlier research by Dr. Sherrid, that examined electronic health records of 44 patients diagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome. In that study, imaging showed that 30 percent of this cohort had undiagnosed obstructive HCM, indicated by abnormalities of the ventricular septum and mitral valve with systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM) and high LV outflow gradients. Observations of this group suggested that acute LV outflow tract obstruction may cause ballooning. In the new study, Dr. Sherrid and his team analyzed 14 patients who were admitted with obstructive HCM and abrupt presentation of cardiogenic shock with LV ballooning. These patients received treatment addressing their HCM and outflow tract obstruction rather than that typically administered in Takotsubo cases. Shock management included intravenous phenylephrine, norepinephrine, beta blocker, and vasopressin. A subset of patients in refractory shock received urgent relief of obstruction by myectomy (n=5) or alcohol ablation (n=1). Despite the typically poor prognosis for cardiogenic shock, all patients survived, with full recovery of systolic function A Dangerous Masquerade In cardiogenic shock associated with LV ballooning in HCM, medical therapies commonly administered in Takotsubo syndrome—such as dobutamine, nitrates, or ACE inhibitors—are contraindicated. The efficacy of surgical intervention in cases of refractory cardiogenic shock also distinguishes the new syndrome from Takotsubo, in which ballooning occurs in the absence of underlying anatomical defects. “This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention,” says Daniel G. Swistel, MD , a coauthor of the most recent study. “Decisions must be made in hours, and misdiagnosis of the true pathophysiology can result in fatal missteps.” This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention.” The Importance of a Trained Eye Dr. Swistel notes that the clinical definition of HCM has recently expanded to include patients who have mild or normal LV thickness, yet have outflow tract obstruction at rest or after exercise responsible for typical heart failure symptoms. These patients have mitral leaflet elongation, papillary muscle abnormalities, and SAM, but their HCM may go undiagnosed due to the lack of obvious septal thickening. The finding that the condition can be associated with LV ballooning and cardiogenic shock “underscores the need for clinicians to familiarize themselves with the many anatomic variants found in HCM,” he observes. “This is a huge discovery on Dr. Sherrid’s part,” Dr. Swistel adds. “It’s a real leap forward in diagnosis.” Mark V. Sherrid, MD, is director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and an associate professor of medicine. His research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Daniel G. Swistel, MD, is surgical director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and a professor of cardiothoracic surgery. His research focuses on advancing surgical and other therapies for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and associated valvular disorders. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart Nader Moazami, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The first successful human implantation of an artificial heart took place in 1982. Forty years later, just one such device is available in this country—the SynCardia Total Artificial Heart (TAH), approved in 2004 by the Food and Drug Administration as a bridge to transplantation. Although a lifesaver for some patients with irreversible biventricular failure, the device is only a stopgap. Researchers have long struggled to develop a TAH capable of permanently replacing a natural heart, and several groups now claim to be close to that goal. Whether they will succeed, however, remains an open question. , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, is an internationally recognized expert on circulatory assistive devices. We spoke with him about the state of the TAH—and its future. “As an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent.” Overcoming Engineering Challenges A permanent artificial heart has been a holy grail of cardiac surgery since at least the 1960s. Why has it taken so long? The engineering challenges are mind-boggling, ranging from miniaturization to biocompatability to the need to prevent clotting and hemolysis. But as an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent. The need for a permanent TAH is primarily driven by patients with end-stage biventricular heart failure who aren’t eligible for transplantation. But the same technology could benefit transplant-eligible patients as well, by providing better alternatives to the TAH available today. The SynCardia TAH has been implanted in about 1,700 patients since its introduction—just over 100 per year. What are its strengths and limitations? As a bridge to transplant, the SynCardia works reasonably well. But it’s based on technologies and concepts that were current in the 1980s—a pneumatic driver moving a diaphragm to create a pulsatile flow. It has a high rate of complications. It requires a complex anticoagulant regimen. It’s bulky and noisy. It’s not something that people can live with long term. For all these reasons, the device continues to have a limited application. Should next-generation TAHs adopt the continuous-flow model? There are some strong arguments for doing so. As we’ve seen with left ventricular assist devices (LVADs), continuous-flow (CF) rotary pumps provide increased mechanical reliability, smaller size, and better overall patient outcomes than volume-displacement pulsatile-flow technology. However, CF LVADs are also associated with complications such as arteriovenous malformations, bleeding, and hemmorhagic infarcts in some patients. This may reflect the fact that all our organs—the gut, liver, kidneys, brain— evolved to respond to pulsatile flow So in my opinion, the jury is still out on continuous-flow TAHs. Assessing Next-Generation TAH Candidates Several experimental TAHs are in the running to become the first permanent artificial heart. What should we know about them? The three candidates that have gotten the most attention are those developed by the Cleveland Clinic, Carmat, and BiVACOR. The Cleveland Clinic TAH was one of the earliest CF artificial hearts; it’s been around for about 10 years. I was involved in testing it preclinically before joining NYU Langone Health, but it has not yet reached the stage of human trials. BiVACOR is another CF TAH. Its sole moving part is a magnetically suspended spinning disk that acts as a centrifugal pump. The design is meant to enhance durability and reliability, as well as reduce its size. Another unique feature is that this TAH can be programmed to mimic pulsatile flow; it will be interesting to see if that modification improves patient outcomes. But this device, too, is still in the animal-testing stage. The Carmat TAH is a pulsatile flow device, which uses a hydraulic pump and pressure sensors to regulate blood flow according to patients’ physical activity. European regulators approved it in 2020 as a bridge to transplant, and it entered clinical trials in the United States in 2021. Again, it’s too soon to say whether one of these candidates is the front-runner. “For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. But for end-stage heart failure patients who aren’t candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend.” A Solution to the Donor Heart Shortage? Some advocates suggest that permanent TAHs could provide an alternative to biological hearts, helping to relieve the persistent shortage of organs for transplantation. How realistic is that expectation? I’m skeptical. For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. As long as TAHs need an external drive line, they raise a variety of concerns: infection, difficulty taking a shower, the danger of accidentally tugging on the cable. If these devices can someday be internalized, that might change the equation. Until then, the most effective way to address the shortage of transplant organs will be to increase the supply of usable donor hearts. NYU Langone Health has been at the forefront of that effort, first by pioneering the use of hepatitis C-positive organs , and more recently by using donation after cardiac death organs. We’re also looking into xenotransplantation of genetically modified pig hearts, building on the Transplant Institute’s recent work with kidneys candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend. When an appropriate device becomes available for human testing, we expect to be one of the leading centers investigating it clinically. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy The retrospective study compared 173 patients monitored using paper-based blood glucose logs and 360 patients managed through a remote patient monitoring platform. The remote monitoring group had an increased rate of maternal glycemic control at the time of delivery and decreased rates of preeclampsia and neonatal hypoglycemia compared to the standard paper glucose log group.For data shown, p<0.001. ADAPTED FROM: Oral presentation at SMFM Annual Pregnancy Meeting; February 11, 2023. Diabetes is one of the most common medical complications in pregnancy with gestational diabetes impacting an estimated 2 to 10 percent of pregnancies in the United States. Poor glycemic control increases the risk of congenital malformation, pregnancy loss, and perinatal morbidity and mortality. Studies have demonstrated that optimal glycemic control during pregnancy can reduce these complications, but pregnant patients are faced with the challenges of attaining proficiency in diabetes surveillance and management in a very short time frame. In February 2020, the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, in collaboration with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) team, implemented the use of a remote patient monitoring (RPM) platform for at-home monitoring of patients’ glucose blood sugar levels. Eight months later, the division also launched the Postpartum Blood Pressure Remote Monitoring Program to conduct at-home blood pressure monitoring after delivery. In a retrospective study of 533 patients managed through the Diabetes in Pregnancy Program, director , associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist, and colleagues compared the outcomes of 173 patients previously monitored via paper-based blood glucose logs with those of 360 patients managed through RPM tools after their program’s launch. “Leveraging remote patient monitoring technology for management of diabetes in pregnancy reduces obstetric complications and improves neonatal outcomes.” The study found that during their pregnancies, those who monitored blood sugar levels through the RPM platform were significantly more likely to achieve glycemic control in the target range at the time of delivery, and achieved target range sooner than patients managed with the paper logs. The RPM patients had lower rates of preeclampsia, and their infants had lower rates of neonatal hypoglycemia within the first 24 hours of life. Based on the combined results, Dr. Heo and her colleagues concluded that RPM for managing diabetes during pregnancy is superior to the traditional paper-based approach. Maternal–Fetal Medicine and Physician Informatics Hye J. Heo, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist in Health Informatics with MCIT. She serves as the director of the Diabetes in Pregnancy and Maternal–Fetal Medicine Fellowship Program, both at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. She also serves as the System Physician Informaticist for the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients Dan G. Halpern, MD and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As more patients with adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) age into adulthood, care teams must address evolving needs for patient-centered support, says ACHD program director . Dr. Halpern and his colleagues in the Congenital Heart Program are partnering with young adult patients to understand what new services can best support their goals for independence in their careers, lifestyle regimens, and relationships as they manage chronic heart disease. “We have to learn how to address all of the clinical—and social—aspects of how to transition a kid into an adult. We are responsible for more than their cardiac care. These are young adults that strive to live well-rounded, fulfilling lives,” Dr. Halpern says. As a tertiary care center and first New York state-accredited comprehensive ACHD center, the Congenital Heart Program—which includes two ACHD transition clinics—is charged with offering a full range of clinical and social services for patients navigating challenging life transitions, including entering adulthood. “In their 20s, patients still come with their parents and a phone book of medical records. By 25 or 30, these young adults come by themselves and are learning to navigate their own life,” says Dr. Halpern. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of… There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Hearing Unique Anxieties For young adults with ACHD, unique anxiety and stress can stem from activity limitations that may be unclear. “You have to be a bit parental, the adult in the room who can help adjust their expectations while letting them live their lives,” Dr. Halpern says. The NYU Langone Health program includes an ACHD social worker to help address concerns of patients caught between pediatric and adult worlds. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of. Just this morning, one of my patients asked me for a hug in the hospital. There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Recently, COVID-19 has revealed how external factors fuel unique concerns for ACHD patients. In a survey of 100 adults with ACHD, Dr. Halpern and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP , “found an immense amount of anxiety, depression and fear of COVID-19.” Their concerns weighed heavily despite the fact that NYU Langone Health researchers have helped determine COVID-19 mortality in ACHD patients is commensurate with the general population. “Something jumped here and it spurred us. We redesigned the clinic flow to take care of oxygen saturations, medications, and mental health through carefully scheduled video visits,” says Dr. Halpern. Letting Patients Reveal Their Needs Dr. Halpern and colleagues, including , have been holding virtual information sessions where ACHD patients of all ages are invited to learn and share about care-related topics. Some of the first sessions focused on COVID-19-related anxiety, exercise regimens, healthy diets, and scars. Dr. Halpern says they are surfacing unexpected insights about the needs of young adult patients. “The diet one, although nicely done, did not generate much interest,” Dr. Halpern laughs. “Then, everyone was so enthusiastic about the one on scars. They were advising each other about how to tell a new significant other about a sternotomy scar. That seemed to interest them more than the surgery itself.” Based on this feedback, the ACHD team built a scar initiative with dermatology. Three months after an ACHD surgery, patients are now referred for specialty treatment to minimize scarring. Creating Peer Community Dr. Halpern’s team is considering strategies for offering peer-to-peer matching for ACHD patients. The goal is to introduce patients with a specific congenital heart defect—tetralogy of Fallot or single ventricle with Fontan palliation, for example—to each another. “A lot of patients live in silo. It’s unbelievable how so many patients are eager to speak to people with the same condition.” The idea evolved out of NYU Langone Health’s collaboration with the Adult Congenital Heart Association. “That group includes MDs and volunteers who themselves have CHD,” Dr. Halpern says. Looking forward, Dr. Halpern envisions the demand for comprehensive support services within the ACHD community—and how innovative programs can offer those services—will continue to take new directions. “ACHD patients are perhaps among the most clinically challenging patients that require life-long follow up. We are committed to accompanying them during their journey,” Dr. Halpern says. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Multidisciplinary pelvic floor expertise guides successful restoration of rectal-vaginal structures. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis A complex case involving atypical uterine presentation reveals the aggressive nature and symptomatology of leiomyomas. Surging Interest in Specialized Fertility Care Providers advocate that rising demand warrants more individualized counseling and lowering barriers to care. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing Most women younger than 38 when their eggs were frozen, or who thawed at least 20 eggs, achieved live births. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation Catheter ablation has long been recognized as an effective treatment for a wide variety of cardiac arrhythmias, but the therapy runs a risk of damage to surrounding tissues. Pulsed field ablation (PFA) is emerging as a novel, non-thermal energy source that may offer a safer alternative to conventional catheter ablation technologies. PFA delivers ultrashort, high-voltage pulses to create lesions on targeted tissue. This mechanism is also known as electroporation because it causes temporary pore-like openings in cell walls, leading to death by apoptosis. The frequency of the pulses can be adjusted to target specific proteins within cell membrane, leaving other types of tissue unharmed. “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” “With traditional energy sources, we spend much of our time trying to avoid collateral damage to the nerves, blood vessels, lungs, or esophagus,” says . “PFA offers the hope for an energy source that is instantaneous, efficacious, and specific to the heart.” Investigating PFA for Atrial Fibrillation Previously used in oncology to destroy specific types of tumors or to increase tumor permeability to chemotherapy drugs, PFA has recently been adapted for catheter ablation by a number of manufacturers. European regulators approved the first such device in January 2021, but the technology remains investigational in the U.S. NYU Langone is currently conducting clinical trials of three different PFA cardiac ablation devices in patients with atrial fibrillation. “There are many ways to deliver this energy,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “We’re trying to find out the best way to do it.” Numerous questions about the new technology remain, including how durable are the lesions that PFA produces, the safety compared with conventional counterparts, and which of the available catheters is optimal for a given application, such as paroxysmal versus persistent atrial fibrillation. Across the three trials testing devices developed by Medtronic, Farapulse, and Biosense Webster, primary outcomes include primary adverse events such as atrial-esophageal fistula and cardiac tamponade/perforation within 7 days, and freedom from documented atrial arrhythmia, atrial tachycardia, or atrial flutter for up to one year. Secondary outcomes include the number of patients who achieve acute procedural success, defined as confirmation of entrance block in targeted atrial pulmonary veins after adenosine/isoproterenol challenge, and change in quality of life after ablation. Ripple Effect Across Cardiac Ablation If the early results from the PFA trials hold up, Dr. Chinitz expects the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt the devices. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in transformative treatments. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically.” “Many feel that PFA will replace radiofrequency and cryoablation as the premier energy source for cardiac ablation,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Eventually, it could be adapted beyond atrial fibrillation to other arrhythmias, including those involving the ventricles. “It’s still too soon to know whether this technology will live up to those expectations. If it does, it’s likely to change the field of catheter ablation dramatically,” Dr. Chinitz says. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy Specializing in obstetric care for transgender patients, , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses best practices for inclusive care, the need for education and studies that capture the diverse concerns of patients, and initiatives he and his team are pursuing to reduce the inequities experienced by the transgender and gender-diverse community. Providing Affirming Care for All Transgender, nonbinary, and gender-expansive people often face discrimination in healthcare settings. What are some important considerations for obstetric care? The language and culture around pregnancy is highly gendered, and obstetric care largely caters to cisgender women. Fortunately, there has been growing awareness about the importance of providing care for all people. That means recognizing that people with diverse gender identities have pregnancies and give birth. “Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care.” Our goal is to create a system that is affirming of all gender identities so that people feel comfortable coming here for care. We want to affirm people’s identities during the entire pregnancy—from prenatal care, to delivery, to postpartum. What elements are important when planning for pregnancy? Some people with reproductive potential are taking testosterone. This important medication can have a remarkably positive impact on a person’s quality of life. Unfortunately, testosterone cannot be used during pregnancy. Patients should stop taking testosterone before pregnancy or as soon as they find out they are pregnant. While the idea of stopping hormone therapy and experiencing pregnancy with all its gendered connotations can be difficult, we help our patients embrace pregnancy while affirming their unique identities. Most of the care during pregnancy for transgender and gender-expansive patients is the same as for cisgender patients. Some of the unique elements of care include creating a dialog around talking about pregnancy that affirms someone’s unique identity, screening for depression, building an individualized birth plan, and ensuring a smooth transition to a team of affirming gynecologists and primary care doctors once pregnancy is over. New Frontiers in Medical Education You’ve been involved in several educational initiatives designed to improve knowledge on the provision of health services to transgender and gender-expansive patients. How do you see education and training advancing? Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care. As public awareness increases and more programs prioritize education around LGBTIA+ care, I hope that transgender and gender-expansive people will find affirming doctors and feel comfortable seeking care. “Educating future physicians and trainees is key to expanding access to inclusive obstetric care.” I recently completed my term on the Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Workforce committee. We published a statement that affirmed the society’s commitment to excellence in obstetric care, research, and education for people with diverse sexual and gender identities. In collaboration with the society, I’m currently working on a follow-up publication. I’m hopeful that this paper will provide more practical guidance on how clinicians can employ gender-inclusive practices in obstetrics and maternal–fetal medicine. Some people have concerns about erasing women from pregnancy. To be clear, I want to advocate for an inclusive approach that ensures that all people—cisgender women, transgender men, and everyone with birthing potential—are included. The expansion of inclusive practices does not take away from the need to address sexism and other challenges that cisgender women face. We need to remember that people with diverse gender identities and birthing potential face sexism, too. Pursuing Inclusive Research What current issues in research are you focused on addressing? People with diverse gender identities have been historically excluded from research. While professional societies recommend the use of inclusive language in research, fewer than half of obstetrics and gynecology journals require gender-inclusive research practices in their author submission guidelines. There is also a lack of data about gender-inclusive research practices in obstetrics and gynecology. I’m very interested in how we can employ more inclusive research practices and promote their use. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access As the availability of next-generation sequencing (NGS) becomes increasingly critical to the treatment of gynecologic cancers, persistent underutilization and inequitable access to genetic testing remain significant barriers to care for many patient populations. , director of gynecologic oncology research and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office , discusses the specific challenges of universal access to genetic testing and tumor sequencing in these cancers, and how these barriers can be overcome to increase access to the latest clinical trials and treatment options. Genetic Insights Inform New Guidelines Dr. Pothuri, your research focuses on NGS in endometrial cancer. How common is the use of this tool as a standard of care? Dr. Pothuri: Here at NYU Langone, we now perform NGS on all patients with endometrial cancer right at the time of diagnosis. The entire field is moving in this direction, and we now recognize four distinct molecular subtypes, correlated with prognosis. In fact, the information from NGS has become so important that it will change the staging of some endometrial cancers, and it may also affect treatment. For instance, a stage 1A uterine serous cancer with p53 alteration will be a stage 2 in the soon-to-be adopted Federation in Gynecology and Oncology (FIGO) staging system. Escalating or De-Escalating Care How is NGS helping to inform treatment in endometrial cancer? We know from my own research that there is a high rate of pathogenic germline variant detection in those patients who undergo NGS. We have marker-directed immunotherapy options to offer these patients, so undergoing tumor sequencing becomes critical to matching the right patients with appropriate therapies. “This is a culmination of all of my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce its burden and save lives.” Conversely, under the new staging classification, these insights can actually help us to de-escalate treatment in patients considered low-risk, such as those with POLE -mutated cancers. In Europe, they have already adjusted ESGO/ESTRO/ESP guidelines so that adjuvant treatment is no longer recommended in some patients with stage 1 or 2 cancers that are completely resected. Disparities Limit Universal Testing Despite the recognized benefits of genetic testing, there’s evidence that it’s underutilized. Why? It’s true that even before diagnosis, patients at risk for hereditary cancers are not being referred appropriately for genetic testing. We reported a stark example of this, where the vast majority of patients who met National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) criteria for BRCA only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer . That is a tremendous missed opportunity when we have effective preventive strategies to offer these patients. As gynecologic oncologists, we see patients once they’re already diagnosed, so education is needed at the primary care, internist, or obstetrician and gynecologist level to flag those patients whose family history meets criteria for genetic testing referral. “The vast majority of patients who met NCCN criteria for genetic testing only underwent testing after diagnosis of a -related cancer. That is a tremendous missed opportunity.” Notably, we also found that compared to those with private health insurance, publicly insured or uninsured patients were three times more likely to undergo testing after cancer was already diagnosed. We reported significant racial/ethnic inequity in testing referral in our endometrial cancer study as well. These findings point to the broad issue of access and implicit bias affecting cancer treatment and participation in clinical trials. Ensuring Access to the Best Treatments What are the repercussions of access inequality when it comes to clinical trials? There’s the obvious negative impact on outcomes for patients who could benefit from a trial but aren’t referred. Importantly, we now have evidence that this dynamic is likely also impacting trial results. For example, we examined data from patients with advanced or recurrent uterine serous carcinomas who received NGS testing and found that Black patients comprised nearly half of this population . Furthermore, 38 percent of Black patients had cancer with CCNE1 amplification, which is associated with poorer outcomes, while no White patients had this alteration. If a clinical trial of a therapy targeting amplification under-enrolls Black patients, not only will it result in a negative trial, it will miss the opportunity to treat those patients most likely to be affected by the condition—those who experience worse outcomes and need the treatment. You also serve as director for diversity and health equity in clinical trials for the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) Foundation. Going forward, what changes can help ensure needed diversity in this space? Removing implicit bias from the clinical trial selection process can help diversify enrollment. In our research, when a pre-screener examined medical charts without seeing patients, we increased enrollment in a trial by threefold in six months; patients enrolled before implementation of pre-screening were all non-Hispanic White, while patients enrolled subsequently were either non-Hispanic Black or Hispanic White. We also need to require mandatory implicit bias, anti-racism, and cultural humility training for all involved in clinical research. Applying ASCO-ACCC’s Just ASK training will be important, as we know that