develop a precision protocol for each patient.” The challenge is these patients are becoming more complex. Many of them have had previous surgeries, which come with blood transfusions. This includes mechanical circulatory support, most commonly left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) Millennials are the first group of adults that have survived complex congenital heart disease and received homografts for repair. That foreign tissue has often been there for 20 or 30 years causing extremely high levels of these antibodies—it’s rare that we can treat these patients. Pregnancy is the most common sensitizing event, and why women are affected disproportionately. If you have a patient who’s had three previous pregnancies, an LVAD, and multiple blood transfusions, suddenly you can get very high levels of HLA antibodies. Immune Response to Foreign Human Leukocyte Antigen Can you briefly describe how the immune response works in HLA sensitization and what is unique about your approach to desensitization? Exposure to foreign HLA can initiate a complex set of immune reactions which results in a short-term “effector response”—driven by B cells and short-lived antibody-secreting cells, the production of long-lived bone marrow plasma cells that sustain antibody secretion over decades, and the establishment of B and T cell memory . As a result, HLA antibodies are either detectable or, in the absence of detectable HLA antibodies, the presence of cellular memory exists. “The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control.” The problem is the immune system is smart; it evolves. The cells that become plasma cells—B cells—will begin multiplying again. This is why we added a second agent, a costimulation blockade, to mitigate this response. How do you test for HLA antibodies? Are there any particular signals that you look for in those assays? HLA antibody detection is most commonly done using the Luminex single antigen bead assay. What I’m interested in is how high the antibody levels are, and this requires a bit more work. As an indirect measure of antibody levels, we work with an immunogeneticist to perform antibody titrations until we determine that the antibodies no longer exist. This helps us gauge how many cycles of desensitization will be needed. Designing and Implementing the Protocol What is the core framework for your desensitization protocol and how do you adapt it for different patients? Therapeutic decision-making must consider the patient’s specific needs. My group is building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient. The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control. We use a multi-drug regimen to target both arms of the immune response; this has been successful in allowing us to transplant several highly sensitized patients. “Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different ‘layers’ of the immune response.” A transient proteasome inhibitor (multiple myeloma drugs bortezomib or carfilzomib) is used to deplete plasma cells, combined with maintenance costimulation blockade with belatacept—a high-affinity variant of CTLA-4-Ig that limits T cell–B cell crosstalk—to prevent the generation of new antibody-secreting cells. Any closing thoughts about the future of heart transplant and desensitization? As we’ve discussed, drug repurposing holds promise for precision-based desensitization; clinical trials are ongoing of daratumumab and other immunomodulatory therapies. Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different “layers” of the immune response. Here at NYU Langone, clinicians and scientists work in close collaboration to evaluate each case and develop precision strategies. Through an iterative and integrative approach, we hope to refine our protocols and use these promising tools and treatments to their full potential. Marlena Habal, MD, is a heart failure specialist in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her translational research focuses on understanding the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients and prepare them for transplant. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery , a board-certified pediatric surgeon who specializes in bariatric surgery, discusses the role of surgery in adolescents with obesity—a highly prevalent condition that has more than tripled in the past three decades. In the wake of the pandemic, anxiety and stress have also hindered efforts to address obesity. Working with a multidisciplinary team, Dr. Tashiro gives teens the tools they need to achieve and maintain a healthy weight through the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program, where he serves as surgical director Impact of the Pandemic on Obesity Trends How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected weight management and care of adolescents with obesity? Dr. Tashiro: According to a recent study from the CDC , the rate of increase in children and teens’ body mass index (BMI) approximately doubled in 2020—obesity was an epidemic already, but the pandemic has made it much worse. With schools closed and gym classes cancelled, kids lost their normal routine. Although this was necessary for public health, we don’t talk enough about the importance of a structured school day for children—their entire world involves interacting with friends, and if you take that away, and only put them in front of a screen, it’s not the same. Weight Management Care for Youth The Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at NYU Langone provides a care experience with unique benefits to young patients. Can you tell us more about it? There are many weight loss programs available to patients, but most surgical procedures are not performed by pediatric surgeons subspecialized in bariatric surgery. , all of our pediatric patients receive specialized care from initial consultation through to treatment and follow-up. We employ a multidisciplinary care team, including pediatric obesity medical specialists, nutritionists, psychologists, social workers, and subspecialized pediatric surgeons. We ensure that our patients are treated as teenagers—15-year-olds should not be talked to and treated the same way as adults. A children’s hospital can offer a unique care experience for teens. Our program is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program as a comprehensive center providing high-quality, patient-centered care. The Proven Benefits of Surgery There is accumulating evidence suggesting that bariatric surgery is safe and beneficial for teens with obesity. Have you published any recent research on this topic? We recently published the results of a retrospective analysis evaluating the impact of parental history of bariatric surgery , as well as age at time of operation, on adolescents who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Interestingly, when all patients were compared by age at operation, either over the age of 16 or under, there were few differences in outcomes. Our results showed that patient age should not be a barrier to weight loss surgery, especially among patients with a parental history of obesity. By intervening at a younger age, the long-term metabolic effects of obesity may be reduced. Giving Surgery Careful Thought What are your considerations when counseling patients about potential weight loss surgery? Achieving a healthy weight can be challenging, especially for young people who have experienced significant weight gain that is affecting their physical and mental health. All teens in our program start with medical weight loss interventions. If those efforts prove unsuccessful, we may recommend surgery. This process starts with an evaluation by a psychologist, who determines if the teen is fit for the procedure. We want to ensure the teen fully understands how it will impact their life and is committed to making lifelong changes to maintain weight loss. We provide gastric sleeve surgery, also known as sleeve gastrectomy, for teens aged 13 to 17 who have a BMI of 40 or higher, or a BMI of 35 or higher and at least one accompanying risk factor, such as diabetes. This procedure reduces the size of the stomach, which helps teens eat less and feel full faster. Research shows that bariatric surgery helps teenagers lower their BMI and reverse or significantly reduce their risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease. By reducing the risk of these obesity-related disorders earlier in life, surgical treatment can help prevent illness in teens and lead to better health as adults. Reaching More Patients What are your future plans for program expansion? We plan to expand our coverage area for outpatient visits to include more of the New York metropolitan area as it’s easier for patients if they don’t have to travel so far. We also plan to provide educational materials for all pediatricians in the tri-state area. Many pediatricians don’t know bariatric surgery is a safe and effective option for adolescents with obesity. Jun Tashiro, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of surgery and surgical director of the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. He specializes in performing minimally invasive bariatric surgery in children and adolescents with obesity. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Nuclear cardiologist , is medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology and director of nuclear cardiology at NYU Langone Health. In January 2024, Dr. Phillips stepped into the role of president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology (ASNC), bringing with him a wealth of leadership experience from his more than 15 years at NYU Langone. Here, Dr. Phillips shares his goals as president—with a top priority being equitable access to imaging education—and looks ahead as expanding applications, hybrid techniques, and artificial intelligence (AI) create shifting landscapes in the field. Drawn to the Field Congratulations on your new position leading the ASNC. Reflecting on your training, what drew you to the field and prepared you for this role? Dr. Phillips: When I was doing my cardiology fellowship, I was attracted to nuclear cardiology for its unique role in patient evaluation and management. At that time, the major way to look for ischemic heart disease using a noninvasive approach was nuclear stress testing. Nuclear stress tests are one of the most common diagnostic tests performed in the United States, especially as people mature in years. As I realized the importance of the interplay between diagnosis, treatment, and imaging, over time I began to focus more on nuclear cardiology. Then, when I joined NYU Langone in 2008, the mentorship I received as an early career attending was foundational in getting me even more involved in the field. NYU Langone has a long history of leadership in imaging, including multiple areas of cardiac imaging, with a former director of nuclear cardiology, Dr. Jennifer Mieres, having served as the national president of ASNC in 2009. I’ve been lucky to be very supported over these last 15 years and to have this current opportunity as president. New Paradigm of Imaging Education What do you see as the key objectives for the organization during your term? The ASNC is made up of cardiologists at every level of experience, from trainees in cardiovascular disease to physicians who have been in practice for many years. Although they are a diverse group, one key commonality is that all nuclear cardiology clinicians are still learning. One of the most exciting parts of focusing on nuclear cardiology today is the rapidly expanding knowledge and techniques in the field. We want every specialist in nuclear cardiology to be able to learn the latest skills and learn them in a way that can readily be translated into patient care. So one of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum. “One of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum.” We know that a trainee in one program might not have the same imaging education opportunities as someone in a similar program elsewhere in the country. Our goal is to help raise the bar for all trainees by providing resources that can be integrated into any training program in the country. What this allows us to do is make sure we have a standard where everyone is looking at an image in the same way—that translates into optimization of patient-centric clinical care. This will also be helpful in continuing education. Nuclear cardiology techniques and procedures are exploding, and we’re seeing new disease states where nuclear cardiology is going to be key in diagnosis and treatment. For patient care, we want to make sure that the physicians already involved in nuclear cardiology have the opportunities to learn new skills, imaging techniques, and lab modernization. Strategic Plan for Artificial Intelligence What is your vision for the role of AI in nuclear cardiology? AI is a tremendously hot topic. One of the first initiatives that I launched at the beginning of this year was the creation of a task force on AI and machine learning and their impact in nuclear cardiology. When considering AI in imaging specifically, we’ve learned that with focused attention we can significantly improve the ability of AI to detect small details in an image and assist with diagnoses. But the new wave will be using AI to better determine how a test result can impact patient care. The ability to utilize the large volume of data available in a patient’s electronic medical record as well as the pixel-level data of cardiac imaging is going to open up knowledge that has not existed previously. With thoughtful investment in AI technologies, I’m confident we’ll expand our ability to offer high-quality care. Over the next year, my goal for the task force is to create a strategic plan for how we move forward in nuclear cardiology using the power of AI and machine learning. Expanding the Impact Can you tell us more about how nuclear cardiology techniques are expanding into other disease states? What we’ve found through a lot of research, including research by colleagues here at NYU Langone, is that for many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease, and that nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis. “For many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease. Nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis.” Another disease state where we’re seeing tremendous diagnostic progress utilizing nuclear cardiology is in the evaluation of cardiac amyloidosis. Years ago, this disease was thought to be much rarer, but thanks to the application of nuclear cardiology techniques, diagnoses have increased tremendously—including here at NYU Langone, where we have a dedicated Amyloidosis Program Similarly, our management of sarcoidosis has seen significant growth, with nuclear cardiology playing a key role both in diagnosis and monitoring response to treatment. Finally, there’s been notable progress in the evaluation of cardiac infections, such as endocarditis, and the ability to use nuclear techniques to make a diagnosis where it might otherwise be unclear. Emergence of Hybrid Techniques How do you see the role of nuclear cardiology expanding over the next 5 to 10 years? As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role. As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role.” We’re seeing a lot of focus on hybrid imaging already. One of the areas of greatest progress is in the evaluation of coronary calcium while at the same time looking at nuclear perfusion. When you combine the two techniques, it provides an extremely informative window into a patient’s disease state, with simultaneous functional and anatomic data. I’m excited to see other hybrid approaches be developed. Lawrence Phillips, MD, is the medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology, director of nuclear cardiology, and assistant clinical director for strategic affairs in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. A comprehensive cardiologist, he treats patients across the heart disease spectrum, including early prevention, ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, and valve disease. His research focuses on using cardiac imaging for diagnosing heart disease and monitoring response to tailored therapies. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Imaging showing placement of the implanted valve. TAVR Expertise Treats a High-Risk Pregnancy A woman’s advanced aortic stenosis detected during pregnancy was successfully treated with transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) by specialists at NYU Langone Health. The maternal-fetal medicine team, led by , a nationally renowned expert in high-risk pregnancies, quickly identified the case to be more severe than initially described at referral, permitting time for a well-planned second-trimester procedure. “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR. It was pretty magic.” “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR,” says Dr. Roman. “It was pretty magic.” Aortic stenosis is one of the more feared cardiac abnormalities during pregnancy, notes Dr. Roman. The impairment makes it difficult for the body to adjust to the increases in heart rate and blood volume necessary to support a growing fetus. With these changes largely occurring in the last three months of pregnancy, timing TAVR for the second trimester helped minimize the risk of the mother experiencing cardiac failure. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option compared to surgery.” Dual-trained in cardiac surgery and interventional cardiology, , performed the TAVR. Despite the unique case, he emphasizes the straightforward nature of the procedure itself due to his team’s extensive experience with advanced transcatheter technology. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option to fetus and mom compared to surgery,” says Dr. Williams. Exercise Intolerance: An Early Warning Sign Chest CT angiography revealing the patient’s advanced aortic stenosis. A 38-year-old pregnant female was referred to maternal-fetal medicine specialists at NYU Langone for care of her critical aortic stenosis. Born with a bicuspid aortic valve and asymptomatic throughout her life, the patient experienced exercise intolerance early during pregnancy. TAVR at 21 Weeks The patient’s multidisciplinary care team offered TAVR as a lower-risk alternative to open heart surgery. The procedure was performed while the patient was 21 weeks pregnant, with local anesthesia and minimal radiation to the fetus, and the patient was discharged the following day. A Healthy Mom and Newborn The patient and newborn following delivery. PHOTO: Bella Baby Photography While not required, the patient elected for cesarean delivery, with a team in place monitoring her heart condition. The patient recovered well from the birth, and she and the baby were discharged without any complications. Ashley S. Roman, MD, is the Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, vice chair for clinical affairs—obstetrics and gynecology, and service chief of obstetrics. Her research interests include biomarkers for preterm birth and the impact of omega-3 fatty acids on pregnancy outcomes. Cardiac Surgery, Interventional Cardiology Mathew R. Williams, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery, director of the Heart Valve Center, chief of the Division of Adult Cardiac Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital, and co-director of NYU Langone Heart. He specializes in the treatment of heart valve disease using minimally invasive procedures and advanced transcatheter approaches. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons join international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–13. AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation New AI-driven QTc algorithm could generate clinically useful estimations. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in the landmark ISCHEMIA-EXTEND trial. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony The small, self-contained devices are having a transformational effect on the lives of patients with complex arrhythmias. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD Surgical team takes a unique approach for a patient with transposition of the great arteries. Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Holistic care from a dedicated center benefits all patients—including those who have failed prior treatment. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery A renowned leader advances excellence and innovation in his field. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation Infertility specialist Dr. James Grifo discusses advances in elective egg freezing and practices for holistic care. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations , an assistant professor of medicine and medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, dedicates a large part of her career to education. As content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module, she is helping to design new training initiatives that adopt innovative materials, a more case-based model, and stronger connections between lectures and clinical rotations. Here, Dr. Sum expands upon these experiences and her view that advancing education in the pathophysiology of endocrine and metabolic disease—even for those not specializing in the field—is critical to better management of these complex disorders. Drilling Home the Basics Dr. Sum, in your role as content director for the preclinical endocrine module, what are your main learning directives for students? Dr. Sum: Our biggest focus is to provide first-year medical students with foundational knowledge in physiology and an early introduction to the pathophysiology of the endocrine disorders and metabolic diseases they are going to encounter. Additionally, we’re working to add more focus on prevention. “We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular.” We’ve also undergone significant restructuring to adopt interactive, peer-to-peer, symptom-based learning. This is part of a school-wide initiative to shift away from lectures focused on isolated organs and systems. We prompt students with how a patient would present in clinic with symptoms like fatigue and weight gain rather than known problems like “thyroid disorder.” Then they create differential diagnoses using critical thinking across the organ systems and propose workups to identify the diagnosis, and we discuss pathophysiology and treatment. One of the new training materials you’ve helped develop is virtual flashcards. Tell us about their origin and success We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular, and we now use them across all the different modules, using even more sophisticated software. The goal was to enhance the pharmacologic information that our students have access to, with flashcards serving as a mode to deliver spaced repetition learning. The flashcards have details regarding mechanism of action, indication for usage, and common side effects. Some flashcards also feature illustrations for visualizing the mechanism of action. Templates as a Guide You’ve helped create templates that assist students as they navigate some of their first patient visits. Can you tell us more about their design and how they can be used? The goal is for medical students or residents to use these templates to enhance their toolbox as they join in on the endocrine clinical rotations. This time is very learning intensive with direct patient interaction. These learners are synthesizing all the knowledge they’ve learned during our course or during their own medical school course as they’re meeting with patients and figuring out the diagnoses and treatment plans. For a seasoned physician, this comes naturally because of honed knowledge on questions to ask and internalized illness scripts. For someone in the learning phase, they have all the foundational information, but it still needs to be put into neat categories for them to make sense of the patient case in front of them. “Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders.” To assist with the categorization of information, I created templates tackling the most common endocrine disorders that learners will encounter both on the inpatient and outpatient side, such as diabetes and thyroid disorders. That way, when meeting with a patient with diabetes, for example, the learner is armed with the right questions to ask from the onset to later synthesize the correct diagnosis—whether it is type 1, type 2, or medication-induced diabetes—and then to develop a targeted and comprehensive treatment plan. You mentioned you are researching their effectiveness. Yes, this is an IRB-approved project. We are giving templates to a subset of learners and, through surveys given after the endocrine rotation, we’ll evaluate whether the templates helped learners better understand and integrate the workup and diagnosis of endocrine disorders. Signs of Success How has the feedback you’ve received so far informed your educational vision? The feedback is typically very positive. Students really enjoy learning endocrinology, which is what I hope to inspire. Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders. For common disorders like diabetes and obesity, it’s important for anyone within the healthcare field to know the basics of treatment and prevention. But even for uncommon disorders, like acromegaly and endogenous Cushing syndrome, these patients can present to doctors in almost any specialty, and the diseases can sometimes be insidious in onset and hard to diagnose. Recently, a medical student told me that she helped diagnose an acquaintance with acromegaly after learning about it in our endocrine course! It was extremely gratifying to see our students helping patients so early in their training. Working with AI You’re interested in artificial intelligence (AI) applications for medical education and endocrine training in particular. Where are you at in exploring the emerging technologies? AI is certainly poised to change the course of work in medicine and education. NYU Langone is already positioned as a leading institution for advancing AI technologies, including being one of the few—if not the only—top academic medical centers with its own dedicated, HIPAA-compliant instance of ChatGPT. Within the medical school, we recently held a lengthy brainstorming session about the use of AI in medical education and how it could be helpful in organizing vast troves of information and creating content—both for learners and educators. We’re now actively planning how to use these new tools with such a big capacity for information delivery into our modules, starting with basics such as generation of more practice questions, and beyond. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update Dr. Valerie Peck, MD, discusses the current state of research on bisphosphonate use and AFFs. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment New research and provider education could avoid harmful delays in management. Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy An expert in transgender endocrinology discusses the state of research and the clinical needs of diverse patients. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars An enhanced approach builds on the benefits of transoral surgery. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Discovery shows how lipid accumulation may fuel eruptive xanthomas, other cutaneous conditions. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures Retrospective review finds similar risk of postoperative complications in patients treated before or after 24 hours. New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays The simple method safely reduces overall radiographic imaging for suspected fractures without missing any injuries. Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs Patients report better functional outcomes with a primary biceps tenodesis than with a secondary revision after a failed SLAP repair. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in San Francisco February 12–16, 2024, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk , the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism , have been collaborating over the past several years to study macrovascular disease in diabetes. Now, with new funding from the NIH, their research focus is expanding. Here, Dr. Goldberg discusses how the funding will be used to assess whether LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction corrects platelet, white blood cell, and endothelial cell abnormalities associated with type 1 diabetes, and ascertain whether these changes parallel those found with type 2 diabetes. He also highlights their interim findings, emphasizing multidisciplinary collaboration as a key driver of long-term success. Building Upon Previous Knowledge Dr. Goldberg, tell us about your work with Dr. Berger and how the new funding is allowing you to expand this focus. Dr. Goldberg: Three years ago, Dr. Berger and I received funding from the American Heart Association for the Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Type 2 Diabetes (CHORD) trial . In this study, we’re investigating risk factors for heart disease and stroke, including platelet activity, inflammation, and blood vessel wall function in patients with type 2 diabetes and elevated LDL-C, and how these measurements are impacted when LDL-C is reduced by about 75 percent. With our new funding, we’ve launched a follow-up trial, Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Diabetes, Type 1 (CHORD1) , which is a prospective, interventional, cohort study that will be carried out at five sites within the New York City area. The purpose of the study is to analyze the effect of reducing cholesterol levels on the same risk factors as outlined in CHORD, but for patients with type 1 diabetes. We plan to compare the results of both studies. “In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes.” In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes. Convincing Early Research What early research led to the initiation of CHORD and CHORD1? Studies have shown that marked reductions in non-HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), and to a lesser extent triglycerides, associate with plaque regression. While observational data has linked HDL-C and triglycerides to risk of cardiovascular disease, such studies have a limited role in elucidating the causal risk conferred by these lipid fractions because of confounding by correlated metabolic syndrome traits. Our earlier findings show that LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides are independently associated with coronary artery disease, suggesting that each of these factors are biologically active at the level of the arterial wall. Patients with diabetes have greater platelet aggregation, altered white blood cells, and more vascular inflammation—pathological processes that are improved by LDL-C reduction in unaffected individuals. Research into ApoB-Lp You’re also involved in a new project investigating apolipoprotein-B–containing lipoprotein (apoB-Lp) biogenesis and catabolism. Tell us about this work. This program project award, led by Mahmood Hussain, PhD , will explore how changes in adipose tissue lipolysis, liver assembly of apoB-Lp, and plasma clearance of lipids affect circulating levels of atherogenic apoB-Lp. My project will develop methods to block lipid movement out of the circulation and into the arterial wall where it can cause atherosclerosis. We have received five years of funding for this project from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Drawing on a Well of Expertise You’ve led several multidisciplinary clinical trials. How does collaboration play a role in your research productivity and success? NYU Langone has a strong history and well of expertise that’s relevant to endocrinology and lipid disorders. By collaborating with other investigators, I’ve been able to foster relationships with experts that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with diverse perspectives and different areas of research. Ultimately, I believe that this has been a major reason for our success. Endocrinology, Lipid Disorders Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression Pandemic-related mental health issues in healthcare workers were detected by applying AI to teletherapy transcripts. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Renowned ADHD expert Dr. Lenard Adler details the latest evidence-based assessments and interventions for adults. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health psychiatrists joined international colleagues in San Francisco, May 20–24. We have several convenient locations across Manhattan. NYU Langone’s general pediatric care team offers several convenient locations across Manhattan to provide the best treatment possible for children, whether they live Uptown, Downtown, or somewhere in between. Our team of pediatric experts provide both well and sick visits, immunizations, annual examinations, and more. Together, we aim to partner with you to discuss everything from your child’s growth and developmental milestones to behavioral and emotional progress, nutritional needs, and more so that you can feel confident in the care your child receives. Our pediatric care teams offer services for children from birth through age 18 across Manhattan and are available across a wide variety of days and hours to best meet your and your child’s needs. , we have direct access to pediatric experts who can provide specialized care for your child, if needed. Come see our providers in the Financial District at , in Greenwich Village at , and on the Upper East Side at Our pediatric experts provide the best care possible for children with conditions ranging from minor to more complex illnesses. Andrea Brescia Pediatrician Bruce Brovender Michaela B. Domaratzky Genevieve Ferrier Eric P. Gibbs Niloufar Gidfar Lisa Hughes Robin S. Jacobson Christine Lambiris Joseph C. Licata Debra Mesnick Palmo Pasquariello Vicki M. Porges Camille Senzamici Ayala Wegman Anna Zhivotovsky National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis NYU Langone Health-led trial is key component of research evaluating preventive intervention, biomarkers. Jose U. Scher, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Of the estimated 3 percent of the United States population with psoriasis, roughly 25 percent will develop psoriatic arthritis, with psoriasis of the nails or scalp disproportionately increasing the associated risk. The link between the two conditions has given researchers at NYU Langone Health a unique opportunity to study pre-clinical disease with a specific biomarker that could clarify how the inflammatory process progresses from skin to joints. “We can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis … But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” “In patients with latent disease, we can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis, and our available medications all have limitations,” says . “But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” Dr. Scher and colleagues are leading a major multicenter study, Preventing Arthritis in a Multicenter Psoriasis At-Risk Population (PAMPA) , that has been years in the making. The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis or other risk factors, such as a first-degree relative with psoriatic arthritis. “We are focusing on the earliest treatment phase, before patients even develop joint pain,” says Rebecca Haberman, MD , the trial’s associate lead. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” The study, conducted in collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, will test if a prolonged and unresolved skin inflammation, coupled with entheseal and synovial abnormalities detected via musculoskeletal ultrasound, will increase the risk for a transition to psoriatic arthritis. Comparing Rates of Progression In one arm, 100 at-risk patients will receive a subcutaneous injection of the drug guselkumab for 24 months. In a second arm, another 100 patients will be similarly randomized and begin the intervention or placebo after a 6-month delay. In a third arm of 150 patients who don’t wish to be treated, the researchers will use the non-biologic standard of care as a negative control. “We’ll compare the rate of progression