cancer cribiform morular thyroid cancer lymphoma that appears in the thyroid poorly differentiated and anaplastic carcinoma, two of the most aggressive forms of thyroid cancer Types of Hyperthyroidism We create treatment plans for all types of hyperthyroidism, including the following: Graves’ disease thyroiditis, which is transient hyperthyroidism due to sudden inflammation or disruption of the thyroid amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism pregnancy-related hyperthyroidism toxic autonomous thyroid nodules thyroid-stimulating hormone secreting pituitary tumors Types of Hypothyroidism Our doctors see patients who have the following types of hypothyroidism: Hashimoto’s thyroiditis postsurgical hypothyroidism amiodarone-induced central or pituitary-related checkpoint inhibitor therapy induced pregnancy-related hypothyroidism Types of Thyroiditis We manage several types of thyroiditis, which is inflammation of the thyroid gland: subacute (painful) lymphocytic (silent or painless) postpartum amiodarone-associated Whatever thyroid condition you may have, our doctors can create the right treatment plan for you. Support the Future of Health We can do incredible things with you on our team. Your gift empowers NYU Langone Health to overcome challenges and impact lives worldwide. 11.3M outpatient visits a year 100 full-tuition MD scholarships a year 162 endowed professorships 247% increase in NIH research funding since 2017 Make a Difference Raise Funds With Us and Make An Impact Rally your community. Donate your birthday, celebrate a special occasion or honor someone you love. Gather Your Friends For An Athletic Fundraiser Push the limits of what's possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Celebrate Our Frontline Heroes Nurses are the heart of NYU Langone Health. Support them this Nurses Day and everyday. Mar 9, 2022 Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Emily Scher Jan 9, 2025 9:21 pm EST What Our Supporters Say Push the limits of what’s possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Mar 9, 2022Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Jan 2, 20253:00 pmEST Modal Box modal- Click here to edit the “modal-box” settings. This text is only for editing and will not appear after you publish the changes.							Preview			modal- Homepage Read Inspiring Stories “I gave a donation to NYU Langone in honor of my son Dimitrios. He is in remission now…. Susan M. Family Member of Patient “15 years ago my twins were born 2 months early in the middle of the night. We didn’t… Bryan S. “My husband is a cancer survivor who was a patient of Dr. Chachoua’s. It has been 17 years… Suzanne R. 212-263-7311 Our experts diagnose and create tailored treatment plans for , a group of symptoms that result from the narrowing of the space between the first rib and the collarbone. This narrowing compresses nearby arteries, veins, and nerves, causing pain, swelling, numbness, skin discoloration, and blood clots in the neck, shoulder, arm, or hand. Thoracic outlet syndrome typically occurs from overuse of the arm from repetitive overhead movements at work or from certain sports, such as swimming or baseball. Sometimes a malformed first rib or a cervical rib—an extra rib located above the others—may compress surrounding blood vessels and nerves, contributing to symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program, patients receive personalized, advanced care from our team, which includes vascular surgeons, , neuromuscular medicine specialists, , and pain management specialists. Treatment plans, which are tailored to the type of thoracic outlet syndrome a person has, may include , or minimally invasive treatment. Innovative, Minimally Invasive Surgical Approaches NYU Langone surgeons are among the most experienced at providing minimally invasive surgical options if other treatment methods do not provide relief. Options include robotic-assisted first rib resection , which involves removing the top rib to relieve compression of area blood vessels and nerves, and angioplasty or venoplasty , which uses a catheter-based approach to open compressed vessels. Our doctors are experts at managing thoracic outlet syndrome. Michael Zervos Our doctors help diagnose and manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Thoracic surgeons are an integral part of the care team for thoracic outlet syndrome. Physical and occupational therapy may be part of your treatment plan. NYU Langone Neurology Associates Neuromuscular specialists at NYU Langone Neurology Associates help manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Our specialists manage discomfort caused by thoracic outlet syndrome. We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and on Long Island. To make an appointment, please contact one of our thoracic surgeons. Excellence in Lung Cancer Surgery We have a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection, and our surgical volume and length of hospital stay are better than the national average. Our doctors have more than 30 years of experience and have performed more than 5,000 thoracic surgery procedures. ’s “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone is tied for No. 1 in the nation for pulmonology and lung surgery. NYU Langone’s thoracic surgeons specialize in using robotic-assisted surgical techniques to manage even the most complex cancers and other conditions that involve the lungs, esophagus, trachea, diaphragm, and mediastinum, as well as the surrounding chest area. Robotic-assisted surgery is a minimally invasive technique that allows for smaller incisions that result in faster recovery time, shorter hospital stay, and less postoperative pain. We were among the first to use robotic-assisted surgery to treat cancers and diseases of the chest, and our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world in using these methods. Thoracic surgeons from around the world regularly come to NYU Langone to learn how to master these techniques. Thoracic surgeries are usually complex, so our surgeons collaborate with pulmonologists and specialists in medical oncology, radiation oncology, and radiology from NYU Langone’s . Working together, your care team develops a treatment strategy targeted to your needs. Innovators in Thoracic Care to find newer, better treatments for lung cancer and mesothelioma. We are currently exploring new treatments that combine surgery with chemotherapy and immunotherapy, and are part of a clinical trial to determine the effectiveness of radiation mesh that is surgically placed on the lungs to shrink cancerous growths. Advances in Thoracic Surgery Our surgeons are researching new ways to improve care for people with lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other thoracic conditions. We are also exploring advanced surgical technology, including single-port robotic-assisted surgery, which requires only one incision, and navigational bronchoscopy, which combines imaging and robotic-assisted surgery to precisely remove smaller nodules of affected tissue instead of larger sections of lung. NYU Langone has received a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection. This achievement, the highest rating possible, puts NYU Langone among the very best hospitals for general thoracic lung cancer surgery. In addition, our surgical team is one of the most experienced in the country, performing more surgeries than the national average. Our patients also go home sooner than average, with 90 percent of people who had lobectomy and 95 percent of people who had segmentectomy to remove a portion of the lung discharged within 24 hours. Our thoracic surgeons are leaders in the surgical treatment of , lung metastases from other sites in the body, , chest wall tumors, and , as well as all conditions that affect the chest area. These include , and tracheal stenosis. Our doctors perform the following thoracic surgery procedures, in most cases using robotic-assisted techniques: resection—including lobectomy, segmentectomy, and airway and pulmonary artery sleeve resection, to remove part of the lung—and pneumonectomy, to remove an entire lung surgery to remove tumors that spread to the chest wall, including Pancoast tumors mediastinal tumor surgery esophageal cancer surgery and surgery for benign esophageal disease airway surgery, including treatment for tracheobronchomalacia, which causes the windpipe to soften and collapse, and surgery to remove tracheal tumors , through our lung volume reduction surgery to treat emphysema, , and other conditions that affect breathing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension We also use video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), a minimally invasive surgical technique, to treat lung cancer or drain fluid around the heart and lungs. Related Programs & Centers We specialize in minimally invasive surgical approaches, including robotic-assisted first rib resection. Learn More About the Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Our experts perform highly specialized surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Learn More About the CTEPH Program Robotic thoracic surgery is available for airway, breathing, and lung conditions. Learn More About the Robotic Surgery Center Our doctors develop individualized treatment plans for people with lung cancer and mesothelioma. Learn More About the Lung Cancer Center We offer lung transplants for people age 12 and older who have advanced lung diseases. Every person’s skin has a unique tone, texture, and color that requires tailored treatment. Many skin conditions may appear differently, and can be more or less severe, depending on a person’s background. Diagnosing and treating these conditions in different skin types requires a well-trained eye. Our team of exceptional board-certified dermatologists provides comprehensive treatments for any and all skin conditions in people of color. Our dermatologists are trained to diagnose and treat a variety of conditions affecting skin of color. We are one of the few dermatology divisions in the United States dedicated to advancing and promoting care for skin of color. The conditions we treat and the surgical and cosmetic procedures we utilize for care are as diverse as our patients. Skin of Color Conditions We Treat Our dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting skin of color, including the following: cosmetic concerns, including skin aging and wrinkles keloids and hypertrophic scars dermatosis papulosa nigra, which are small, dark bumps that commonly appear on the face and neck , including central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia and traction alopecia hidradenitis suppurativa, a condition in which painful boils and scars form in skin folds skin discoloration, such as melasma hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation irritation of the skin and hair follicles, including conditions such as pseudofolliculitis barbae and acne keloidalis nuchae and other Our doctors are experts in advanced treatments including laser procedures, minimally invasive cosmetic procedures, surgery, phototherapy, liquid nitrogen treatments, and steroid injections. Our Skin of Color Team We specialize in providing dermatologic services for skin of color. Prince Adotama, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services, Skin Autoimmune Disorders Lisa O. Akintilo, MD Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Avrom S. Caplan, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Daniel Gutierrez, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Nayoung Lee, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Whether you’re playing pickleball, picking up a toddler, or hoisting a suitcase into the overhead bin, life can be tough on your joints and muscles. If you experience pain or stiffness when you move, you may need to see an orthopedic doctor. Specialists at offer nonsurgical treatments, including medications and injections, to relieve acute and chronic conditions of the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. When surgery is needed, our renowned team of specialized orthopedic surgeons provide excellent outcomes in joint replacements and surgical treatment for fractures, spinal disorders, and sports injuries. With the right care plan, our specialists will help you manage your orthopedic condition or injury and get you back to the activities you enjoy. Before seeing us, you may need to schedule an appointment with a primary care doctor or other provider for a referral to the right type of specialist for your symptoms. You can also explore our team of specialists to schedule an appointment directly . Some subspecialists, such as our spine surgeons, require a referral and imaging tests before an office visit. When to Consider Seeing an Orthopedic Doctor You may want to see an orthopedic doctor if you have: muscle, joint, or bone pain in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, shoulders, or back instability when walking or standing loss of range of motion in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, or shoulders a loud pop or popping sensation in your knees or shoulders severe pain that keeps you from participating in an activity, even just walking swelling of your joints back pain plus other symptoms, such as loss of bladder or bowel control, fever, chills, or night sweats a broken bone from traumatic injury sports-related injuries Which Type of Orthopedic Specialist Will You See? The type of orthopedic specialist you see at NYU Langone depends on your symptoms and what other providers, if any, you have already seen for treatment. Back Pain Relief , your primary care provider may refer you to initially for physical or occupational therapy at NYU Langone’s . If this approach does not provide adequate relief or if your symptoms are more complex, your doctor may order imaging exams and refer you to a with specific training in treating the conditions that cause back pain, including If you have shoulder or elbow stiffness or pain, your primary care provider may refer you to one of our specialists in . Advanced training allows our doctors to manage conditions such shoulder sprains and strains . Medications, injections, physical or occupational therapy, or surgery may be part of your treatment plan. Help for Hips and Knees Hip pain may be a symptom of , while knee instability or pain may be a sign of an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear . When medical treatment or physical or occupational therapy are no longer effective, our hip and knee reconstruction specialists can determine whether joint replacement surgery is necessary, and offer minimally invasive and other advanced procedures as part of your plan. Rheumatoid Arthritis Relief If you have joint pain in many joints in your body, your primary care doctor may refer you to a who specializes in , a condition that causes the immune system to mistakenly attacks healthy joints. If you need further treatment, your rheumatologist may refer you to an orthopedic surgeon for joint replacement surgery. Specialty Care for Everyday Athletes If musculoskeletal pain is keeping you from participating in your favorite sport or activity, your doctor may refer you to a sports medicine doctor . These orthopedic specialists treat everyday athletes with all types of sports-related injuries, such as sprains, strains, tears, and breaks—with or without surgery. At NYU Langone, sports medicine doctors work as a team with highly trained physical therapists, nutritionists, and other support specialists, who take the time to understand how your pain impacts your life and goals, and how they can help you achieve them. Pediatric Dermatology Services At NYU Langone, our pediatric dermatologists provide expert and compassionate care for children of all ages. Our pediatric dermatology team treats children in our outpatient offices and through , which allows for seamless coordination among parents, patients, and physicians. Our pediatric dermatologists treat all skin conditions for children and adolescents, including rare or complex conditions. As part of one of the oldest pediatric dermatology practices in the country, our doctors have extensive experience evaluating and treating all skin conditions, as well as hair and nail disorders. Our doctors routinely treat common disorders such as , as well as uncommon birthmarks and rare genetic or inflammatory skin disorders. Our experience allows us to bring advances in the field to the bedside to provide the most up-to-date approach to caring for your child. NYU Langone’s pediatric dermatologists are deeply committed to creating a nurturing and educational environment for children and their families. We strive to understand your child’s skin condition within the context of their overall health, happiness, and wellbeing. We also pride ourselves in taking the time to educate families about their child’s skin condition. Our doctors are recognized leaders in their fields, routinely lecturing at local, national, and international dermatologic meetings. They are also active members in the American Academy of Dermatology and the Society for Pediatric Dermatology. Our Pediatric Dermatology Specialties Our pediatric dermatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating skin diseases that affect children and adolescents, including the following: , including moles, vascular anomalies such as port-wine stains, and hemangiomas atopic dermatitis and eczema and hair diseases, such as alopecia areata genetic skin disorders pigmentation disorders, such as skin infections, including warts, molluscum, and fungal infections Our Pediatric Dermatology Team Our pediatric dermatologists are board-certified in both dermatology and pediatric dermatology, and have specialized training that allows them to make the most sophisticated decisions for treatment options. 212-263-5250 212-263-1003 Dermatology Services Our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions Learn More About Dermatology Services The Skin and Cancer Unit of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology , founded in 1872 as the New York Skin and Cancer Hospital, is an outpatient dermatology teaching center located at NYU Langone’s Ambulatory Care Center East 38th Street Patients at the Skin and Cancer Unit, with its 150-year history of combining outstanding patient care with world-class medical education, are seen by both a physician undertaking advanced dermatology training, called a resident, along with an NYU Langone physician, known as an attending physician. The resident and an attending physician collaborate to provide diagnostic and treatment services for virtually all skin diseases in adults, adolescents, and children. These range from common conditions such as warts, acne, and eczema, to more complex medical conditions such as connective tissue disorders, pigmented lesions, skin allergies, and skin cancers. Our services include clinics dedicated to the following conditions: bullous (blistering) diseases like pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid complex medical dermatology problems connective tissue diseases and skin lupus genetic and congenital skin disorders hair and scalp problems leg ulcers nail problems pediatric and adolescent dermatology pigmented lesions skin sarcoidosis For people who need further treatment for skin cancer, we work closely with our experts at . We also collaborate with the Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit, which performs clinical trials and studies of drugs and medical devices aimed at treating disorders of the skin, hair, and nails. Orthopedic Conditions We Treat , our doctors have the experience and expertise to manage a wide range of conditions affecting the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. Blount Disease in Children Elbow Strains and Sprains Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease in Children Spina Bifida in Children Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. When you have a brain or spine condition, you want the best care from the top specialists. Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are leaders in their field, and specialize in treating the most complex brain, spinal cord, and nervous system disorders in both adults and children. Our renowned team of experts brings people from around the country to NYU Langone, ranked as the No. 1 hospital for neurology and U.S. News and World Report From common neurologic conditions, such as to the most complex, such as , our team uses the latest technologies to make a diagnosis and create a customized treatment plan that is tailored to each individual. We offer advanced medical and surgical treatment options, and our doctors are guided by a simple philosophy: our patients always come first. We deliver the highest survival rates in the country for neurosurgery, with our experts using virtual reality to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and artificial intelligence to inform real-time decisions during surgery. Our unparalleled commitment to the best outcomes drives our neurologists and neurosurgeons to advance the standard of care for brain, spine, and nervous system conditions. Our experts use Gamma Knife radiosurgery for noninvasive brain surgery. Our surgeons perform ultra-minimally invasive procedures to treat several conditions of the neck and lower back. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory. NYU Langone Health’s Research at ASCO 2024 Clinical Trial Tests Noninvasive Glioblastoma Treatment Healthcare Leadership Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Ilseung Cho, MD , a gastroenterologist, has served as Assistant Chief Quality Officer and now Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health during a remarkable era for the hospital system. From its moment of near-collapse in the mid-2000s, NYU Langone’s Manhattan campus has transformed into a national beacon of care quality and innovation while the hospital system has grown substantial new footprints in Brooklyn and Long Island through major hospital mergers. Today, the fully integrated NYU Langone Health hospital system holds a nearly incredible set of accolades— ranked #3 in the country and #1 in New York U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals while receiving an “A” top-safety rating from Leapfrog ; a five-star CMS rating for quality, safety and patient experience; and Vizient’s #1 Quality ranking. Still, Dr. Cho explains that NYU Langone’s “secret sauce” for growing while advancing highest-quality care lies beyond all of the metrics in a unique ethos focused on providing only the best to each patient, their loved ones and communities. Here, Dr. Cho discusses his vision as Chief Quality Officer and what initiatives are on the horizon for the hospital system. Embracing Care Quality as a Mission Physician Focus: What motivated you to take on the work of a Chief Quality Officer? Dr. Cho: This work is very personal for me, just as it is for our patients and their families. I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation. It felt like something being said to make the surgeon feel better, rather than my family member. Metrics and rates are important for how the hospital runs, but to someone who suffered a complication of care, their personal rate is 100 percent. What I took away from that experience is that each of the quantitative measures we consider represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. That is why the journey to constantly improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. We should continually strive to reduce mortalities, reduce preventable harm, and improve the experiences that our patients have when they interact with our health system. “I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation.” How do you implement that personalized, patient-centered focus on quality in a complex and growing health system that runs, by necessity, on the capture of metrics and data? NYU Langone’s leadership has made an exceptional commitment to developing a culture where all clinicians and staff are encouraged to be open about communicating their challenges and successes. In my role, the most valuable information I receive often comes from the clinical leaders, both providers and nurses, who are frequently at the bedside. In a way, my job is to amalgamate all of the qualitative insights that come from our bedside nurses, NPs, PAs, residents, and others. For example, a recent conversation I had with one of our transport staff in an elevator uncovered opportunities to improve their workflow and efficiency. It was one of the most important discussions I had that week. That is why I say that even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care. “Even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care.” Righting a Flagship Hospital, Building a Quality-Driven Health System Looking back, how would you distill the strategy that has allowed NYU Langone to transform the fate of our main Manhattan hospital, which appeared to be very dire around 2007, while adding two other major hospitals with their own challenges to our system—and now achieving the same top quality and outcomes measures across the board? In my opinion, the change we’ve seen over the past 15 years has been driven by two primary components: culture and data. Culture defines what is important or not to an organization like ours. And we have planted our flag around providing the highest quality of care. Our culture reflects that. Our work to become a high-reliability organization reflects that. Every member of this organization from the senior leadership down understands that we are aiming to provide the highest quality of care because it is ingrained in our culture. Along with that, we have been very innovative about the use of data, metrics, and goal-setting. We’ve created a remarkable system to measure the quality of care, to identify whether we are adhering to our processes, and to share that data transparently with our teams in the form of dashboards. This is vertically integrated from our hospital leadership to our staff as well as horizontally across our entire healthcare system. Fundamentally, we expect that the quality of care delivered at each of our sites is the same. We have set the expectation that all our patients receive the same high quality of care, regardless of whether they come to us in Manhattan, Brooklyn, or Mineola (Long Island). This expectation of high-quality care holds as we engage in hospital mergers— a recent JAMA article highlighted our success in bucking the national trend of diminished care quality that often accompanies health system growth. “We have set the expectation that all of our patients receive the same high quality of care.” rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals. This is, frankly, different from the way many other health systems operate, where they report only on their “flagship” hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Advancing the Vision of a Healthier NYC What are your top priorities ahead to continue advancing quality and outcomes? Equity and healthcare disparities is the next challenge that we must and will overcome. We should be transparent about the fact that healthcare in this country has provided disparate and inequitable care for a long time. We have a moral obligation to address this and to eliminate biases wherever we uncover them, whether they relate to race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. This is a challenge but I’m confident that, given the commitment of our leadership and staff, we can and will do better. Lastly, would you agree that in many ways the unique experiences of New Yorkers have shaped how NYU Langone embraces the model of a high-risk organization and the ability to adapt quickly and effectively to challenges? What health system has weathered events like the blackout of 2002, Hurricane Sandy in 2012, and the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020 with such strength and resilience? Not a day goes by that I’m not in wonder and grateful for the people we have here at NYU Langone. There is no hospital system better suited to take care of New York City. Our hospitals reflect what is incredible about New York, and our teams bring incredible energy and innovation drawn from the rich diversity of our communities. Our work ethic mirrors the grit that we see in our families and friends. Thank you for your time, Dr. Cho. Share This Copied to clipboard! Featured Experts Ilseung Cho, MD, is an associate professor of gastroenterology and Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health. His research interests focus on the gut microbiome (the community of bacteria that live in the gastrointestinal tract) and how it affects health and disease. Specifically, he focuses on the effect of the colonic microbiome on metabolism as well as in the development of colorectal cancer through epigenetic mechanisms. Subscribe to Physician Focus Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at NYU Langone Health. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging Josef Coresh, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. An estimated one in five Americans will be older than 65 by 2030, a major benchmark in an accelerating demographic trend that is fueling a surge of research on how to promote better aging. Getting older is inevitable, but biomedical research is suggesting that many of its consequences can be prevented or delayed. NYU Langone Health’s Optimal Aging Institute , which launched in 2023 under the leadership of Josef Coresh, MD, PhD , a professor in the Departments of , adds a powerful new force to the growing research focus. The institute aims to help advance the science of aging, identify the mechanisms that underlie optimal health and can become dysregulated with age, and translate its insights into improving health and prolonging lives. Here, Dr. Coresh discusses the institute’s focus and future. The Lifelong Process of Optimal Aging Dr. Coresh, how would you define optimal aging, and why is it important? Dr. Coresh: Optimal aging is trying to retain more function and then decline more slowly and live longer, with better health and quality of life. It pertains to quality of life, with an emphasis on prevention and health lifelong, rather than thinking of aging as just what we do at the end. “One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan.” One example is that one of the protective factors for dementia is more education from childhood. One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan. What do you see as the institute’s principal goals? The goals for the institute are to connect—to become a hub that connects excellence—and then to incubate ideas and innovation to create what I might call actionable research results. We have a very talented team that is highly collaborative across disciplines. I think to have global impact, you need to be globally connected as well. So by no means are we going it alone: we’re coordinating our activities with other universities and leaders and really working as part of an international effort. Our goal is to start with observations in people and then get the right kind of resources so that our answers are definitive enough that they can advance health and can become translated into clinics, populations, and policies. Addressing the Growing Burden of Dementia The institute is focusing on conditions like dementia, vascular disease, and hearing loss. Why are these so important? We try to focus on the most compelling public health and aging problems of our time, and in doing that, dementia rises to the top. Interestingly, dementia is very connected to vascular disease, where heart disease and stroke are leading causes of death. In between them is blood pressure control and vascular health. We’ve known for a long time that people who have a big stroke have a high risk of dementia, but people with high blood pressure can still have ischemic damage throughout the brain that may contribute to cognitive decline and dementia. Also, in collaboration with colleagues in otolaryngology, we’re planning to study hearing loss as a risk factor for dementia and assess how improving hearing may improve all of healthcare for older adults. Hearing loss can contribute to social isolation and other risk factors for dementia, and we’ve already demonstrated how a hearing intervention can reduce cognitive decline in older adults with hearing loss. NYU Langone is a lead institution for the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. How does ARIC further the institute’s aims? The ARIC cohort has been funded by the NIH since it started in 1987. More than 35 years later, the study participants are all over the age of 80. We’re currently looking at risk factors for dementia and integrating proteomics, genetics, blood pressure and vascular risk factors, hearing loss data, and other behavioral risk factors. We’ve had some major publications, including one showing the connection of high blood pressure in midlife to dementia later in life . We’re working on the lifetime risk of dementia and have shown an interconnection between vascular and Alzheimer’s dementia. In collaboration with Dr. Morgan Grams Division of Precision Medicine , we are hosting all the cohort data since inception. We are gathering raw imaging data for artificial intelligence (AI) analysis and building a hub with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) to promote global collaboration. The Benefits of Controlling Hypertension Can you talk more about the role of blood pressure control in dementia prevention? Blood pressure control clearly reduces the risk of stroke and heart attacks. For dementia, the challenge has been that we think it might take decades to have the full effect. Often, the populations in trials haven’t been old enough to see that effect. But recent trials are showing that even starting in your 60s and even treating blood pressure for as short as four years may result in a significant reduction in dementia risk. “Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection.” That adds another compelling reason to treat what is the leading risk factor for mortality globally. Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection. Integrating Demographics, Wearables, and More What’s next for the institute? We’re going to recruit a demographer next because I think understanding demographic trends is important. We’re going to do a lot more with hearing loss, because I think that’s very addressable. Next, we’re going to work with precision medicine and AI to get more information from our clinical tools. We’re also looking heavily at wearables. Particularly in older age, there may be a lot of information that sensors can get us that people may or may not be aware of or able to self-report, like sleep, which has become a very important topic. The key is to address all of these in ways that can create synergies with diverse scientists and make a difference. Josef Coresh, MD, PhD, is the founding director of the Optimal Aging Institute and a professor of population health and medicine. He is an international expert in aging and vascular disease epidemiology of the brain, heart, and kidney. Latest in Geriatrics Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia The Optimal Aging Institute expands research on vascular risk factors for age-related decline with a $31 million NIH award. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert Dr. Joshua Chodosh discusses the public health response to ADRDs. Bridging the Care Gap: A Role for Geriatric Outpatient Clinics How integrated consultative care clinics can help expand access to specialized geriatric services. Tiny Human, Giant Steps The patient was born at 22 weeks and 5 days of gestation, weighing barely a pound and hovering at the cusp of viability. Prior to arriving at NYU Langone Health, he spent six weeks in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at another hospital, where he battled several complications of extreme prematurity—including chronic lung disease, bilateral retinopathy, and a grade 3 intraventricular hemorrhage. Like many babies who survive such difficult beginnings, he was left with profound developmental delays. After his release from the NICU, in the summer of 2020, he was referred to a local hospital for feeding therapy. His disabilities also entitled him to state-funded early intervention services, but the COVID-19 pandemic had brought the system to a standstill. “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress.” Megan Conklin, PT, DPT “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress,” says Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, associate director of pediatric therapy services at NYU Langone. “This baby was clearly not getting the help he needed.” Shortly before the child’s first birthday, the patient was referred to . There, a multidisciplinary team of specialists launched a program targeting his impairments in strength, posture, range of motion, balance, endurance, communication, feeding, swallowing, and cognitive skills. It would continue for the next two years. A Long, Hard Climb When the patient entered treatment, in early 2021, he was 11 months old; his developmental age, accounting for his preterm delivery, was