at equipment connections. Base of drip legs to be provided with separate blowdown valves. c. Ensure all components of the details are installed (unions, shutoff valve, check valve, etc.) d. All piping from coils shall be pitched to the inlet of the condensate pump (no trapped piping). e. Drip legs shall be provided periodically for long runs of pipe at intervals between 100 to 125 feet. f. Drip legs shall be no less than half the size of the pipe it serves. g. Blow off valves to be provided at all drip legs and at the base of all risers. h. Flash tank trap shall be located 6 inches above the water level of the tank. Flash tanks to be provided with F&T trap. i. Test t shall be provided on all condensate piping downstream of steam trap and upstream of condensate shut off / check valve. j. Warmup bypass shall be provided for all steam valves 6 inches and larger. k. High pressure steam shutoff valves at the incoming service to each building shall be provided with two shutoff valves for safety purposes. l. All steam piping shall be insulated. m. Condensate pumps and flash tanks shall be vented to atmosphere. n. Condensate piping exposed to the outdoors shall be heat traced. o. Outdoor steam and condensate piping shall have two layers of insulation. p. High pressure steam shutoff valves shall be high performance OS&Y valves (not butterfly valves). q. Prior to startup A/E team and construction team shall review NYULH Steam Insulation Quality Control Checklist obtain checklist from Facilities Management. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 454 2024 52.51. Strainers Strainers installed on horizontal steam piping shall not be installed in the vertical direction (facing towards ground). Steam strainers shall be installed to be in line with the horizontal piping such that when looking at the pipe and strainer, the clean out shall be facing directly towards you. Dielectric fittings nipples shall be installed between all dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Fabrotech b. Hoffman c. McAlear Mfg. Co. d. Metraflex e. Mueller f. Sarco g. Titan h. Yarway 53.52. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality. In all MERs, pipe insulation and conduits shall have colored PVC jacketing per the colors below. Colored PVC jacketing shall be installed on all piping 2” and above. Approved PVC Jacketing Manufacturers: a. Johns Manville b. Proto c. Speedline d. P.I.C. Plastics Chilled Water PrimaryLight Cyan Chilled Water SecondaryLight Cyan CompressorsLight Gray Condenser WaterYellow Domestic Water ColdPea Green Domestic Water HotMedium Gray ElectricalBlue FansDark Green GlycolOff White RefrigerantWhite Reheat WaterMedium Green Sprinkler and StandpipeRed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 455 2024 SteamMarigold Steam CondensateRed Orange Floor GuardDark Gray Hot Water HeatingYellow Valves and TrimBlack Waste LineDark Brown Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded as follows: Fire Quenching Liquids White on Red TEXT Toxic and Corrosive Fluids Black on Orange TEXT Flammable Fluids Black on Yellow TEXT Combustible Fluids White on Brown TEXT Potable, Cooling, Boiler Feed and other Water White on Green TEXT Compressed Air White on Blue TEXT Steam Black on Yellow TEXT Chilled Water White on Cyan TEXT Hot Water / Reheat Hot Water White on Red TEXT Condensate Black on Orange TEXT Fuel Oil White on Brown TEXT Duct Labels shall be installed every 20 feet and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 4 inches high. Outside Air White on Blue TEXT General Exhaust Black on White TEXT Toilet Exhaust Black on Orange TEXT Return Air Black on Yellow TEXT Supply Air White on Green TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 456 2024 Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 inch diameter or square, brass, aluminum or stainless steel. Lettering shall be viewable from a distance of 10 feet. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. 54.53. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) Refer to the Miscellaneous subsection within the Architectural section for all engineering requirements. 55.54. Unit Heaters Unit shall be supplied with a unit mounted thermostat. Approved Manufacturers: a. Electric 1) Berko 2) Brasch 3) Chromalox 4) Indeeco 5) Dayton b. Steam/Water 1) Modine 2) Rittling 3) Sterling 56.55. Valves Dielectric fittings nipples shall be installed between all dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. For Manhattan Main Campus: All campus primary chilled water valves to be 300lb rated. Secondary chilled water valves shall be designed based upon their designed system pressure. 2” and above Primary CHW service and steam service shall all be full bore stainless steel ball valves. PCHW service valves up to and including 2” shall be brass/bronze full bore ball valves. All system pressures shall be specified on design drawings. For services other than PCHW in the Manhattan main campus, steam service and all other sites other than Manhattan main campus; Bball valves (2 ½” maximum) must be used for manual isolation on all chilled water, secondary water, reheat water and radiation water systems. Butterfly valves are to be used on larger piping (3” and above). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 457 2024 All valves and piping systems shall be designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves 3” and larger shall be pressure checked and bench tested at the factory. Factory shall provide a certified ANSI pressure report based on testing. Testing shall show that valve can hold rated pressure based on atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. Any valve that is above 7 feet shall be provided with a chain wheel for manipulation of valve from the floor. All high pressure steam isolation valves shall have manual warmup valves for startup. High Pressure steam valves shall be high performance OS&Y gate valves butterfly valves are not allowed. Valves shall be rated to 500 degrees F. Isolation valves shall be installed before and after control valves on chilled water and low pressure steam lines that service Air Handling Units . Isolation valves shall be same pressure class as control valve and vice versa. Approved Manufacturers: a. Balanced Check 1) Fabrotech 2) Hager 3) Mueller b. Balancing Valves (Water) 1) T & A 2) Armstrong 3) Autoflow 4) Flow Design 5) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 6) Bell and Gosset c. Ball Type 1) Apollo 2) Jamesbury 3) Milwaukee 4) Rockwell 4)5) Belimo (control) d. Butterfly 1) DeZurik 2) Flow Seal 3) Bray 4) Jamesbury 5) Keystone 6) W.K.M. 6)7) Belimo (control) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 458 2024 e. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each expansion tank, plate and frame heat exchanger or any pressurized water vessel, and as required by Code. Relief valve shall match maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment. Relief piping shall be sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to floor not floor drain. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Consolidated 3) Farris 4) Fulflo Specialties Co. 5) Kunkle 6) Lunkenheimer 7) Watts 8) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 9) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) f. Soft Seated 1) Bray 2) DeZurik 3) Keystone 4) Milwaukee g. Swing Check 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Powell 6) Rockwell Nordstrom 7) Stockham 8) Walworth h. Globe Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Nordstrom 6) Powell 6)7) Belimo (control) i. Plug Valves (Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 3) Nordstrom 4) Walworth NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 459 2024 j. Plug Valves (Non Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Homestead 3) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. k.i. Solenoid Valves 1) ASCO j. Combination Valves Combination valves which have a ball valve as a balancing valve cannot be used unless stops are provided with locks. 1) Victaulic 1)2) NuTech l.k. Gate Valves 1) Crane 57.56. Variable Air Volume Variable Air Volume Boxes shall have pressure independent control. All VAVs shall have a local disconnect switch. All VAVs shall be marked with individual equipment ID’s. This shall be specified on design drawings as well. Design drawings equipment schedule for VAVs shall be specific and general based on size. Supply boxes with reheat coils shall have an access door upstream and downstream of the coil for cleaning purposes. Supply boxes without reheat coils shall have an access door for the damper. Exhaust boxes shall have an access door upstream of the cross flow sensors for cleaning purposes or be supplied with a removable velocity wing sensor. There shall be a maximum of 4 rooms per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the contractor can install flex hoses to circulate and then remove so that there is no possibility of leaving a bypass open. The hose bibs can also be used for high point vents or drains. The hot water return piping shall have an isolation ball valve downstream of the balancing valve. All reheat coils shall be supplied with union connections. Inlets to VAV at medium pressure ductwork shall not exceed 0.2” ESP or 2,000 FPM. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 460 2024 Removable velocity wing sensor shall be provided if Anemostat is selected as the VAV box. Mutlitap transformers are not allowed in the control enclosure. Enclosures shall all be low voltage. Ensure enclosures are adequately size for BMS controllers. Approved Manufacturers Non Critical Applications: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus Approved Manufacturers Critical Applications: a. LCS 58.57. Variable Frequency Drives See Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) subsection 59.58. Variable Refrigerant Flow System (VRF) If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Outdoor Unit (Condenser) All variable refrigerant flow system (VRF) components shall be of the same manufacturer. The unit shall be factory assembled and prewired with all necessary electronic and refrigerant controls. The unit internal controls shall interface with the base building, building management system (BACnet, Modbus, etc.). All refrigerant and gas lines shall be insulated with Armorflex (1/2” or more). The unit shall be provided with a minimum of the following safety devices; high pressure switch, control circuit fuses, crankcase heaters, fusible plug, overload relay, inverter overload protector, thermal compressor protectors, thermal fan motor protectors, overcurrent protection for the inverter and anti short cycling timers. In the event of power failure the system shall store all settings and programs so reprogramming is not required. The system shall automatically restart operation after power failure. The compressor shall be hermetic digital scroll and the inverter shall permit a capacity control range from to . The outdoor fan shall be direct drive variable speed propeller type and configured for vertical discharge airflow. The fan motor shall have inherent protection and have permanently lubricated bearings. The condenser coil shall be copper tubes with mechanically bonded aluminum fins and aluminum end casings. The coils shall be applied with a corrosion resistant coating. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 461 2024 Ensure refrigerant piping is brazed (do not use flux when brazing copper to copper refrigerant piping) Branch Controller The branch controller shall have sufficient number of ports as required for connection to zoned equipment. The unit shall contain piping, valves, and controls to divert refrigerant controlling each port to operate in either a heating or cooling mode. Units shall be completely factory assembled, internally piped and wired. Branch controllers shall have factory installed control boards that interface with the VRF equipment controls and shall perform all functions to effectively and efficiently control simultaneous heat and cooling. Isolation valves shall be field supplied and installed for ease of service to the branch controller without evacuating the entire system refrigerant charge. Indoor Fan Coil Units The indoor fan coil unit shall be factory assembled, wired and run tested. Contained within the unit shall be all factory wiring, piping, electronic modulating linear expansion device, control circuit board and fan motor. The indoor fan coil unit shall have an auto restart function. Indoor fan coil unit and refrigerant pipes shall be charged with dehydrated air before shipment from the factory. The indoor fan coil unit shall be direct drive type with a minimum of three (3) fan speeds. The fan motor shall be ECM type. A condensate drain and pan shall be installed under the coil with leak detection device (in instances where condensate cannot be piped to drain). Provide a factory installed / wired condensate pump with integral check valve. Provide wall mounted programmable thermostat for each indoor fan coil unit (unless multiple units will be grouped and control to one (1) thermostat). Ensure all indoor fan coil unit DIP switches (local at each unit) are set to monitor room/space temperature (ceiling mounted units typically set to read return air temperature). Approved Manufacturers a. Daikin b. Mitsubishi c. Toshiba d. LG NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 462 2024 60.59. Vibration Isolators Vibration isolators are to be installed on all rotating equipment including fans, air handling units, chillers, cooling towers, pumps, etc. Piping shall have braided vibration isolators unless piping is isolated with spring type isolators within a minimum of 50 feet of pump. All piping in a mechanical plant shall be isolated with spring type isolators. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Amber Booth c. Kinnetics Noise Control, Inc. d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings and Controls 61.60. Water Filtration Sand filtration shall be installed on Condenser Water. All other systems shall have pot feeders. Sand filters shall have backwash capabilities. All water filtration to be capable of filtering a minimum of of total flow. Pot feeders to have 5 micron filtration with a coupon rack. All water filtration shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ameri Water b. Chemworks c. Diamond Water Systems, Inc. 62.61. Waterproof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Link Seal b. Zurn 63. Water Source Heat Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. AAON b. Carrier c. Mitsubishi 64.62. Water Treatment/Cleaning Open loop systems shall have an automatic chemical feed with integral controls. Closed loop systems shall have a manual bypass feeder system. All chemicals are to be recommended by the water treatment system manufacturer. Chemicals shall be compatible with the piping system and components. A water analysis shall be performed to determine quality of water. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 463 2024 Any new equipment or piping needs to be pre cleaned to remove the oils of manufacture, which can be accomplished with an alkaline phosphate cleaner supplied by the water treatment supplier. It is necessary that all valves and fan coil units in the system be opened to flow during the cleaning process. The cleaning process shall be as follows: • All coils shall be bypassed for the first two hours of a flush and then opened to flow through the coils for the rest of the flush. • System shall be filled with fresh water and then circulated with all process and booster pumps running. • Alkaline phosphate detergent shall be added following the manufacturer’s instructions concerning the correct dosage. It may be necessary to add de foamer in some instances. • System shall be circulated for a minimum of four hours, and hourly flushed all low point drains to remove any suspended solids that may have been displaced. • Upon completion of the cleaning, system shall be drained and refilled with fresh water. Fresh water shall be circulated for 20 minutes and then bled heavily until the water is clear and free of foam. Flushing shall continue until the ortho phosphate level is within 1 PPM of that of the city water and the conductivity is close to that of the make up water. If the flushing occurs over an extended period in time (more than 24 hours), the flush water should be treated water. • The system shall be immediately sterilized by maintaining a minimum of 1 PPM as free halogen for one hour and then treated to passivate the clean metallurgies. Systems containing copper should be treated with azole levels of 20 PPM as a minimum. Molybdenum should be used to passivate mild steel piping by achieving a minimum of 50 PPM. The recommended inhibitor levels must be maintained for 24 hours. Systems that are having piping added that cannot be isolated for alkaline phosphate cleaning must have a surfactant added for 48 hours. Systems that are having galvanized towers added must undergo a white rust passivation step for the first 90 days of operation. Flushing and cleaning is allowed through new construction house pumps. Flushing and cleaning is not allowed through existing house pumps. It shall be the responsibility of the flushing and cleaning contractor to provide a pump sized properly for the system to be flushed. The engineer shall write into the project specifications for the flushing procedure to indicate locations of all hose bypasses or permanent piped bypasses on a drawing and attach to the report. After flushing is completed there shall be a sign off sheet indicating the flushing contractor, CM/GC and the CxA have walked every bypass location and confirmed the hose has been removed and the valves are closed. This sign off sheet shall also be attached to the report. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 464 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. G. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Remove low pressure duct leakage testing. 2 Remove requirement for each coil to have a freeze stat in multiple coil units and only provide one long freezestat in all non Article 28 spaces. 3 Allow triple duty valves in off site locations. 4 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 5 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF MECHANICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 465 2024 3. ELECTRICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. I. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the New York StateLocal Building Code and New York CityLocal Electrical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. All connections to be done with double hole lugs (long barrel) and utilize compression type copper connectors. If this is not possible, the design scheme shall be discussed and approved by Facilities Operations. II. Emergency Power a. Emergency Power shall be provided per NFPA Standards, Joint Commission Standards, CMS Standards and New York City Electrical Code requirements. Emergency power to be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. III. Design criteria for sizing power risers and (connected load) electric panels a. Administration/Office: 5.0 W/sq.ft. b. Clinical Office/Exam: 5.0 W/sq.ft. c. Storage: 1.5 W/sq.ft. d. Laboratories (Basic Research): 50 W/sq.ft. e. Support Areas: 12.5 W/sq.ft. f. Technology Rooms: 50 W/sq.ft. g. Procedure Rooms: 30 W/sq.ft. h. Specialty Rooms: 3 W/sq.ft. i. Offices: 6 W/sq.ft. j. Seminar and Classrooms: 4 W/sq.ft. k. Lobby: 6 W/sq.ft. l. Mechanical Rooms: 2.5 W/sq.ft. (Lighting and Small Power) m. Lounge/Waiting Area: 4 W/sq.ft. n. Café/Cafeteria: 15 W/sq.ft. o. Kitchen: 20 W/sq.ft. IV. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 466 2024 b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Technology spaces shall have a color temperature of 4000K. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. excess attic stock shall be provided for integrated, architectural LED fixtures (i.e. fixtures that need to be replaced entirely after failure). V. Distribution a. All power loads, such as elevators, motor control centers, etc., shall operate at 480/277 volts and shall be connected to distribution switchboards with single or multiple conduit and cable feeders. b. Unless serving specialty equipment/lighting, receptacles as well as fluorescent and incandescent lighting shall be wired to 120 or 277 volt circuits. c. All conduits shall be run concealed in finished areas and exposed in Machine Rooms and Electrical Rooms. d. All lighting circuits shall emanate from lighting panels and power circuits from power panels. Lighting and Power circuits shall not be mixed in the same panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 467 2024 C. Electrical Naming Convention COORDINATE NOMENCLATURE WITH NYU LANGONE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER PRIOR TO LABELING OR RE LABELING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATIONS. I. Generator Panel Naming Scheme Example: PPH G4 HCC CE1 PPH G4 HCC CE1Panel #LocationN,S,E,WA,B,C,DFloor LevelBuilding NameEB Energy BuildingSB Science BuildingKP Kimmel PavilionTH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care CenterSKB Skirball660 660 1st AveGBH Greenberg HallSML SmilowMIL MilhauserGenerator PlantG0 Reserved for Future UseG1 Kimmel PavilionG2 SkirballG3 Science BuildingG4 HCCG5 SmilowG6 Energy BuildingG7 660G8 GBHG9 Outpatient Surgical CenterG10 VZ 30th StreetPanel TypeDPH Distribution Panelboard480V / 277VPPH Power Panel480V / 277VLPH Lighting Panel480V / 277VLP Lighting Panel120V / 208VPP Power Panel120V / 208VRP Receptacle Panel120V / 208V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 468 2024 II. Normal Power Panel Naming Scheme Example: SS PES HCC CE1 SS PES HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery Primary Electric Service Normal Panel Type SSH Service Switchboard 460V / 265V DPH Distribution Panelboard 460V / 265V LPH Lighting Panel 460V / 265V PPH Power Panel 460V / 265V SS Service Switchboard 120V / 208V DP Distribution Panelboard 120V / 208V LP Lighting Panel 120V / 208V PP Power Panel 120V / 208V RP Receptacle Panel 120V / 208V BD Bus Duct DESS Double Ended Substation NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 469 2024 III. UPS Naming Scheme Example: TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B1 TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B 1 Panel # System A or B Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street UPS System Number 1 HCC Cellar 2 Smilow Ground Floor Telephone Switch Room 3 Tisch Ground Floor MUX Room 4 Tisch Ground Floor Communications Room 5 Energy Building 6 Kimmel Pavilion 7 South TER/DR 8 Science Building UPS Panel Types TDP Technology Distribution Board 120/280V TPP Technology Power Panel 120/280V TDPH Technology Distribution Panel 480/277V MDSH Medical Distribution Switchboard 480/277V MDPH Medical Distribution Panel 480/277V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 470 2024 IV. Emergency Panel Naming Scheme Example: LS PP G4 61 HCC CE1 LS PP G4 61 HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street Panel Type DPH Distribution Panel 480/277V PPH Power Panel 480/277V LPH Lighting Panel 480/277V LP Lighting Panel 120/208V PP Power Panel 120/208V RP Receptacle Panel 120/208V Panel System LS Emergency (Article 517 Life Safety) in Patient Care Buildings and Life Safety in Non Patient CR Patient Critical (Article 517) EM Standby (Includes Article 517 Required Mechanical Loads) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 471 2024 V. Bus Duct Naming Scheme Example: BD KP CR 1B2 BD KP CR 1 B 2 Panel # Location A,B,C,D Starting Floor Type N Normal CR Patient Critical EM Equipment LS Life Safety Building Name KP Kimmel Pavilion SB Science Building Bus Duct D. Various I. The following is a list of electrical gear that shall have heat runs/burn ins performed prior to turnover. All burn ins/heat runs shall be at rated load (full load). Infrared scanning shall be provided during the entire burn time. a. Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) 12 hour burn in b. Uninterruptible Power Supply Rack Type 30 minute burn in c. Automatic Transfer Switch (ATS) 4 Hour Burn In d. Static Transfer Switch (STS) 12 hour Burn In e. Generator 12 hours f. Power Conditioner 8 hour burn in II. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel. 1) Generators 2) Medium Voltage Transformers 3) Paralleling Gear 4) Uninterruptable Power Supply (30kVA and above) 5) Double Ended Substation 6) Power Conditioner 7) Static Transfer Switch 8) Medium Voltage Switches 9) Transformer 1,000 kVa or higher III. Proper wire color schemes shall be used for all panels. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 472 2024 IV. Isolated Ground (IG) receptacles are not allowed. If project team deems IG receptacles are necessary, engineer to discuss with Facilities Management. V. All emergency power shall be in conduit. VI. All boxes (splice, pull, etc.) shall be labelled with source and load. VII.VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. VIII.VII. All grounding to building steel shall be exothermically welded. VIII. Insulation resistance testing shall be required on 2 AWG and larger. Readings shall be taken every 15 seconds for one minute using an AEMC 1060 tester or equivalent. Infinity values shall not be accepted. IX. Aluminum feeders are not allowed. E. Equipment 1. Automatic Transfer Switches Depending on application, ATS shall be bypass isolation type with load shedding capabilities. Non bypass isolation is an option on a case by case basis. This shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. A full monitoring package on all phases, KW, Voltage and Amperage shall be designed. All ATS connected to cogeneration shall be delayed transition type. Each ATS must include communication package that can communicated with sitewide CPMS. Each ATS must also allow for the acceptance of a permissive signal for retransfer to be received from the cogeneration plant. Engineer to add specifications testing section: • 4 hour full load burn in. One hour each for the following: Normal, Normal Bypass, Emergency, Emergency Bypass. i. At 30 minute intervals, record voltage, frequency, load current. ii. Provide resistive load bank and all necessary temporary cables and connections for full load test. • Simulate Power Failure Approved Manufacturers: a. Asco 2. Busway and Accessories Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric "Spectra Series" b. Siemens NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 473 2024 3. Cable Pulling Lubricants Cable pulling lubricant shall not be used on isolated power systems. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Polywater Corporation Type "J" b. Electro Compound Company "Poly Ease" or "Y ER Ease" c. Ideal Industries "Wire Lube" 4. Cable Tray and Fittings Approved Manufacturers: a. Atlas b. Burndy c. Cooper B Line Systems d. M.P. Husky Corp. e. P W Industries f. Legrand 5. Clocks In procedure areas clocks shall be wireless, synchronized, digital, and power over Ethernet. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sapling NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 474 2024 6. Dry type Transformers Factory testing shall be provided on medium voltage transformers and shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Hammond Power Solutions c. Jefferson Magnetek d. Siemens e. Rex Transformers f. ABB 7. Electric Heating Cable Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. Chromalox b. Raychem 8. Electrical Conductors, Copper, 600 Volt or Less All shall be UL Listed. All conductors shall be true color through entire length. Wrapping in color tape at terminations is not allowed. MI