new press fit technologies that have shown promising initial results. A state wide quality improvement registry was used to analyze the effect of this fixation shift on outcomes in Michigan. Methods: Data from 2017 through 2019 was analyzed to determine the incidence, distribution, and survival outcomes of cemented vs. uncemented TKAs. CPR was calculated yearly based on fixation method (cemented vs uncemented), including the patella. The primary endpoint was time to first revision using Kaplan Meier survival curves. Sub analysis based on age, gender and implant type was also performed. Confidence intervals were set to . Results: Between 2017 and 2019, uncemented TKAs increased from 7. to 11. in the state. Uncemented TKAs were more likely to be male, younger, heavier and smokers. At 3 years, uncemented TKAs demonstrated a higher CPR of 3.33 (2.60, 4.25) vs. cemented (2.27; 2.07, 2.48). Females had a higher CPR at 3 years with uncemented TKA (3.35; 2.52, 4.44) as compared to cemented (1.96; 1.77, 2.16). Patients over 70 had lower revision hazards with cemented knees (HR 0.969; 0.962, 0.975) as compared to uncemented. Survivorship variations existed between different implants. Conclusion: Despite the increased use of uncemented TKAs, this analysis suggested uncemented knees had an increased risk of revision compared to those that were cemented. Outcomes should be tracked closely as the findings appeared to be both patient and design dependent. Registries should, when possible, report results by implant and fixation method in attempt to distinguish implant design and patient demographics that may portend more successful outcomes. This data supports continued investigation regarding the appropriate utilization of uncemented TKA technologies.NotesPaper #16Uncemented Knee Survivorship Varies by Age and Sex in MARCQIBrendan J. Comer, MD, Dexter T. Powell, MD, Brian R. Hallstrom, MD, Huiyong Zheng, PhD, Richard E. Hughes, PhD, David C. Markel, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program34Paper #17Randomized Clinical Trial of Cementless Tantalum Tibial Components: Durable and Reliable at 10 YearsEmmanuel Gibon, MD, PhD, David G. Lewallen, MD, Dirk R. Larson, MS, Michael J. Stuart, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD, Matthew P. Abdel, MD Introduction: Cementless fixation is gaining popularity for primary total knee arthroplasties (TKAs) largely due to innovations in implant design and surgical technique. We previously reported the 5 year results of our randomized clinical trial (RCT) that included 3 different tibial designs (traditional modular cemented tibia, cemented porous metal tibia and cementless porous metal tibia) and found no differences. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the 10 year results in the same cohort.Methods: Between 2003 2006, 389 patients (389 knees) underwent a primary TKA and were randomized into three groups: traditional modular cemented tibia (132), cemented porous metal tibia (128) and cementless porous metal tibia (129). Implant survivorship (via intention to treat analysis), Knee Society scores (KSSs), range of motion (ROM), complication and radiographs were compared between groups. Mean age at TKA was 68 years, were male and mean BMI was 32 kg/m2. The median follow up was 11 years.Results: The 10 year survivorship free of any revision was similar between all 3 groups at , and (p=0.5) in the cemented traditional tibia, cemented porous metal tibia and cementless porous metal tibia groups, respectively. In addition, the most recent KSSs were similar between all 3 groups at 74, 75 and 79, respectively, as were ROM (104°, 106° and 108°, respectively) and complications. However, traditional modular cemented tibia had significantly more non progressive radiolucent lines below the tibial tray in zones 1 and 4 on AP radiographs (, , , respectively). Conclusion: Cementless porous metal tibial components have excellent implant survivorship (), clinical outcomes and knee motion with less radiolucent lines when compared to cemented modular and cemented porous metal tibial components in a randomized clinical trial at 10 year follow up.Noteswww.AAHKS.org/Meeting35Introduction: While cemented total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has been the gold standard, newer uncemented implants have yielded positive initial results. However, concerns about early failure in older populations persist. We hypothesized that early outcomes and revision rates would be similar using a modern implant, even in older patients. As such, the 90 day outcomes and 2 year revision rates of uncemented TKAs in patients over 75 years were compared to an age matched cohort of cemented TKAs. Methods: A statewide arthroplasty registry was queried for all primary TKAs (01/2016 05/2020) performed in patients >75 years by a single practice in a single hospital. This yielded 150 cementless TKAs that were matched to 150 cemented TKAs for age and sex. The same implant was used in all cases. 90 day ED visits, readmissions, return to the OR and 2 year revision rates were compared. Fisher's exact and Chi squared tests were used for categorical data, and paired t tests for continuous data. Log rank was applied for survival analysis. Results: Cementless TKA had significantly less 90 day post operative events (ED visits, medical readmissions, return to OR) vs cemented (123/150 vs. 104/150; p=.011). There were more deep vein thromboses in cemented TKAs (0 vs. 5, p=.024). There were 5 total revisions in each cohort. The uncemented cohort had 2 fractures requiring revision and 3 periprosthetic joint infections (PJI). The cemented cohort had one TKA revised for pain/stiffness, 3 PJI, and one TKA revised for unknown reasons. The survival analysis yielded no difference between cohorts at 2 years (p=.431). Conclusion: Cementless TKAs performed as well or better than a matched cemented cohort in patients >75 years old for 90 day outcomes and 2 year (early) revision rates. The data supports continued investigation regarding optimal indications and patient selection when utilizing uncemented TKA technologies.NotesPaper #18Cementless TKA in Patients Over Seventy Five: A Single Practice Review Using Statewide Registry DataBrendan J. Comer, MD, David C. Markel, MD, Michael Fry, MD, Dexter T. Powell, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program36Introduction: Aseptic loosening persists as one of the leading causes of failure following cemented primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Surgical factors, specifically cement technique, may impact implant fixation. We hypothesized that there is significant variability in TKA cement technique amongst arthroplasty surgeons. Methods: A 28 question survey regarding variables in a surgeon's preferred TKA cementation technique was distributed to 2,791 current AAHKS members. Descriptive statistics were performed. Results: Questions that demonstrated the most consensus included vacuum mixing of cement (80.), the use of two packages (76.), tibial implant first (95.), cementing all implants in a single stage () and compression of the implants in extension (92.). While the use of a tourniquet was common (82.), there was significant variability in the duration and timing. Low viscosity cement represented the lowest use (22.) compared to medium and high viscosity (38. and 36. respectively). Finger pressurization was the most common (77.) and often based on consistency or timing of cement curing (72.). Of interest, while the tibial implant was commonly precoated, 2. of respondents reported not precoating the tibial implant compared to only 0. with the femoral component (p=0.016). The tibial bone was more commonly fully precoated (73.) compared to the femur which was most commonly partially precoated (67.) (p< 0.001). Conclusion: There appears to be substantial variability in cemented TKA technique amongst arthroplasty surgeons. We noted relative consensus (>) with regards to vacuum mixing of cement, order of cementation and two batches. Greater variation was present in cement viscosity, application to bone and implant, bone preparation, tourniquet use and steps taken prior to cement curing. Further studies that look at the impacts of variable techniques on outcomes may be warranted. NotesPaper #19Variables in TKA Cementing Technique Amongst Arthroplasty Surgeons A Survey of the AAHKS MembersChristopher E. Pelt, MD, Michael J. Archibeck, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc, Gregory G. Polkowski, MD, J. Ryan Martin, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting37Introduction: Up to one third of patients undergoing primary elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) report symptoms of psychological distress. The Veterans RAND 12 Item Health Survey (VR 12) mental component score (MCS) is a patient reported outcome measure quantifying mental health problems, vitality and social functioning. To date, a quantifiable risk threshold for baseline VR 12 MCS has not been developed. We aimed to determine 1) VR 12 MCS distribution for patients undergoing primary THA; and 2) thresholds that predict higher healthcare utilization and 1 year patient reported outcome measures (PROMs).Methods: A prospective cohort of 4,194 primary THA patients (January 2016 December 2019) were included. Multivariable and cubic spline regression models were used to test for associations between preoperative VR 12 MCS and postoperative outcomes including: 90 day hospital resource utilization (non home discharge, prolonged length of stay[LOS](i.e.≥3 days), all cause readmission), attainment of Patient Acceptable Symptom State(PASS) at 1 year postoperative, as well as Substantial Clinical Benefit (SCB) in the Hip Disability, Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS) pain, and HOOS physical short form ( PS).Results: Lower VR 12 MCS was independently associated with older age (p< 0.001), obesity (p< 0.001), Black race (p< 0.001), females (p< 0.001) and smokers (p< 0.001). Preoperative VR 12 MCS< 20 was associated with more than twice the odds of non home discharge (odds ratio [OR]:2.31, confidence interval [CI]:1.00 4.94) and prolonged LOS (OR:3.46, CI:1.72 6.80). VR 12 MCS >60 was associated with increased odds of achieving PASS (OR:2.00, CI:1.52 2.68), and SCB in HOOS JR (OR:1.16, CI:1.00 1.35). Spline regression models demonstrated that starting VR 12 MCS ≤40 there were exponentially higher odds of poorer outcomes. Conclusion: Low preoperative VR 12 MCS, specifically less than 40 (or >1 standard deviation away from the mean of the general population), may predict increased healthcare utilization. Further, preoperative VR 12 MCS>60 predicts greater overall satisfaction at 1 year as well as achieving SCB in HOOS JR. Quantifiable thresholds for VR 12 MCS may aid in shared decision making and patient counseling in setting expectations or may guide specific care pathway interventions to address mental health during THA.NotesPaper #20Preoperative VR 12 Mental Composite Score >60 Associated with Increased Satisfaction Post THAAhmed K. Emara, MD, Daniel Grits, BS, Melissa N. Orr, BS, Pedro J. Rullan, MD, Trevor G. Murray, MD, Carlos A. Higuera, MD, Viktor E. Krebs, MD, Robert M. Molloy, MD, Nicolas S. Piuzzi, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program38Introduction: Previous studies have shown lower morbidity and mortality rates during total hip arthroplasty (THA) at academic teaching hospitals. This study sought to determine the relationship between hospital teaching status and PROMs following primary THA using the American Joint Replacement Registry (AJRR) data.Methods: Using AJRR data from 2012 2020, 4,447 primary, elective THAs with both preoperative and one year postoperative HOOS, JR scores were analyzed. This study was powered to detect the minimal clinically important difference (MCID). The main exposure variable was hospital teaching status. Three cohorts were formed based on hospital teaching status as defined by the American Hospital Association (AHA) Data Survey Fiscal Year 2015: major teaching hospital, minor teaching hospital and non teaching hospital. Mean preoperative and one year postoperative HOOS, JR scores were compared.Results: Preoperative HOOS, JR scores (non teaching: 49.69±14.42 vs. major teaching: 47.68±15.10 vs. minor teaching: 42.46±19.19, p< 0.001) were significantly higher at non teaching hospitals than at major and minor teaching hospitals, and these differences persisted at one year postoperatively (87.40±15.14 vs. 83.87±16.68 vs. 80.37±19.27, p< 0.001). Both preoperative and postoperative differences in HOOS, JR scores were less than the MCID at both time points. In multivariate regression, non teaching and minor teaching hospitals had similar odds of MCID achievement in HOOS, JR scores compared to major teaching hospitals.Conclusion: Using the HOOS, JR score as a validated patient reported outcome measure, undergoing primary THA at an academic teaching hospital did not correlate with higher postoperative HOOS, JR scores or greater chances of MCID achievement in HOOS, JR scores compared to non teaching hospitals. Further study is required to determine the most important factors leading to the greatest degree of improvement in patient reported outcomes following THA.NotesPaper #21Hospital Teaching Status and Patient Related Outcomes Following Primary THA—an AJRR StudyChristian T. Oakley, BS, Jerrt Arraut, BS, Simon Lalehzarian, MD, Jeremiah Thomas, BS, Vinay K. Aggarwal, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc, Joshua C. Rozell, MDwww.AAHKS.org/Meeting39Introduction: Various socioeconomic disparities exist in total hip arthroplasty (THA) patients; however, most studies on this topic contain small sample sizes and few control for confounding variables. This study aims to evaluate postoperative outcomes and survivorship after THA in patients of different races and is the first to our knowledge to analyze these rates with a large scale multivariate regression analysis.Methods: Patients who underwent a primary unilateral THA were identified in the New York Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) database with ICD 9/10 PCS codes, excluding patients with hip fractures or oncologic diagnoses. Patients were stratified into four groups based on race: white, black, Hispanic, or Asian. Categorical variables and continuous variables were compared, and revision free survival was calculated using Kaplan Meier survival analysis. Multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression was used to calculate revision hazard ratios. Results: In total, 203,443 white, 19,282 black, 11,669 Hispanic and 2,179 Asian patients were identified. Across races, the most common indication for surgery was osteoarthritis. Length of stay, discharge disposition, postoperative anemia, blood transfusions, three month inpatient readmission and emergency room visit rates, and three and 12 month periprosthetic joint infection rates were all worse in minority races (p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p< 0.001, p=0.014, p=0.003, respectively); however, twelve month mortality rates were similar. Regression analysis demonstrated that black race had a slightly lower risk of revision than white patients (HR: 0.90, CI: 0.82 0.98, p=0.021). There were no significant differences across all races in the cumulative revision event rate up to 10 years postoperatively. Conclusion: Primary THA patients of minority race are more likely to have worse short term outcomes and complications. However, the overall rates of revision are similar across races, with a slightly lower rate of revisions in black patients after controlling for confounding factors.NotesPaper #22Does Race Predict Outcomes and Revision Rates after Primary Total Hip Arthroplasty?Jaclyn A. Konopka, MD, Utkarsh Anil, MD, Charles C. Lin, MD, Claudette M. Lajam, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program40Introduction: In patients with concomitant hip and lumbar spine disease the questions of which surgery, total hip arthroplasty (THA) or lumbar spine fusion (LSF) should be done first has not been adequate answered. Previous investigations have noted increased risk of dislocation after THA in patients with LSF but it is not clear if the risk is decreased if the LSF is delayed. We aimed to evaluate risk of dislocation after THA in patients with LSF within one year prior to or after THA. Methods: A retrospective review was performed (Medicare Standard Analytical Files from the PearlDiver database) by querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision (ICD 10) procedure codes for LSF in the year prior to (LSF first group) or in the year after THA (THA first group). We identified post operative hip dislocation as our primary outcome variable. Demographic data collected included age, sex and obesity. Risk of dislocation was described as a proportion of the cohort with chi square tests. Results: We identified 312,947 patients with THA from 2012 2019. Of these, there were 1,593 in the LSF first group and 755 in the THA first group. There was no difference in age, sex or obesity between the LSF first and THA first groups. No difference in rate of dislocation was noted comparing rates of dislocation in the LSF first 77/1,593 (4.) to the THA first groups 36/755 (4.), p=1). Conclusion: There was no difference in the risk dislocation after THA if a LSF is performed prior to or after THA. This can help surgeons as they counsel patients with concomitant lumbar spine and hip degeneration. Additionally, this suggests that decreased spine mobility leading to increased risk of dislocation is likely present in lumbar degeneration and not caused by surgical fusion.NotesPaper #23No Difference in Risk of Dislocation with Lumbar Spine Fusion Prior to or After Total Hip ArthroplastySebastian Welling, MD, Ryland P. Kagan, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Travis C. Philipp, MD, Jung Yoo, MD 41www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Risk for dislocation after total hip arthroplasty (THA) is increased with prior lumbar spine fusion (LSF), potentially related to decreased spine mobility. However, prior LSF patients also have elevated rates of opioid use. We aimed to evaluate the influence of opioid use at the time of THA and the risk of dislocation in patients with prior LSF.Methods: A retrospective review was performed (Medicare Standard Analytical Files from the PearlDiver database) by querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision procedure codes for LSF and THA. Patients with post operative hip dislocation were identified, and patients were stratified to opioid use within 90 days prior to THA. Multivariate analysis with adjusted ORs evaluated the association of opioid use and dislocation after adjusting for demographic characteristics: age, sex, obesity.Results: We identified 312,947 patients with THA from 2015 2020. 16,864 had LSF prior to THA, 9,341 with opioid prior to THA and 7,523 without. In patients with prior LSF there was increased odds for dislocation for opioid use at THA (aOR = 1.82, CI 1.75, 1.89, p< 0.00001) compared to those without. There was no difference in odds for dislocation in LSF patients without opioid at THA compared to THA patients without prior LSF, (aOR = 1.10, CI 0.85 1.41, p 0.456).Conclusion: There are increased odds for dislocation in patients with prior LSF if opioid use was present at time of THA. However, LSF patients without opioid use at time of THA have similar risks for dislocation to patients without LSF. This suggests that the increased risk of dislocation in LSF patients is not fully explained by decreased spine mobility and factors such as pain or altered sensorium related to opioid use should be considered.NotesPaper #24Blame the Opioid not the Spine Surgeon: Dislocation After Total Hip Arthroplasty with Prior Lumbar SurgeryRyland P. Kagan, MD, Sebastian Welling, MD, Travis C. Philipp, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Jung Yoo, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program42Introduction: The purpose of this study was to investigate metal ion levels in patients at a minimum five year follow up after dual mobility (MDM) total hip arthroplasty (THA) implantation. Specifically, we analyzed: (1) Overall blood and urine cobalt levels; (2) Overall blood and urine chromium levels; (3) Cobalt levels stratified by length of follow up and various implant related metrics (i.e., offset, cup size, stem, and neck angle); as well as (4) Chromium levels stratified by length of follow up and these various implant related metrics. Methods: Cobalt and chromium serum and plasma, blood, as well as urine levels of 41 MDM THAs were obtained. Additional parameters analyzed included: head material and size, stem offset, cup size, as well as stem neck angle. Results: Concentrations of cobalt were low as the mean blood and urine levels for all patients were 0.6ug/L (normal< 1.8ug/L) and 0.8ug/L (normal< 2.8ug/L), respectively. One patient had minimally elevated blood cobalt level by 0.1ug/L. These levels were not substantially different when subgroup analyses were performed for ceramic and cobalt chrome heads. Mean chromium levels in blood and urine were also found to be low for all patients as values were 0.8ug/L (normal< 1.2ug/L) and 1.2ng/mL (normal< 2ng/mL), respectively. Similarly, only one patient had a very slightly elevated blood chromium level of 1.3ug/L. Additionally, analyses of ceramic or cobalt chrome heads separately did not demonstrate differences in blood or urine levels. Blood cobalt or chromium concentrations had minimal changes with longer lengths of follow ups, or with different stem offsets, cup sizes, stems or neck angles. Conclusion: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate low levels of metal ions at longer than four year follow up. These data may be of importance to surgeons deciding on the appropriate implants to use for their high risk patients.NotesPaper #25Are Metal Ion Levels Elevated After Dual Mobility Acetabular Systems: Minimum Five Year Analyses Steven F. Harwin, MD, Zhongming Chen, MD, Nipun Sodhi, MD, Michael A. Mont, MDwww.AAHKS.org/Meeting43Introduction: Modular dual mobility (DM) articulations are increasingly utilized during total hip arthroplasty (THA) to enhance construct stability. However, concerns remain regarding the potential for adverse local tissue reactions secondary to metal ion release. The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of metal artifact reduction sequence magnetic resonance imaging (MARS MRI) abnormalities in asymptomatic primary THA patients with DM articulations and correlate these findings with serum metal ion levels. Methods: All patients with a pain free primary elective THA, DM articulation and >2 year follow up were screened for inclusion. Patients underwent MARS MRI of the operative hip and had serum cobalt, chromium and titanium levels drawn. Patient satisfaction, Oxford Hip score and Forgotten Joint Score 12 (FJS 12) were collected. Fellowship trained musculoskeletal radiologists blinded to serum metal ion levels read each MARS MRI. Results: Twenty two patients (24 hips) with a DM articulation were included with average age of 67.6±8.1 years and average BMI of 29.7±4.8 kg/m2. At mean follow up of 3.7±1.0 years (range: 2.1 5.8), mean patient satisfaction was 4.9/5, Oxford Hip Score was 44.0±3.7 (range: 35 48) and FJS 12 score was 81.5±17.6 (range: 43.2 100.0). Three patients (12.) had serum cobalt levels >1.0 μg/L (range: 1.4 3.4 μg/L). Of these, two patients had abnormal periprosthetic fluid collection on MARS MRI with associated serum cobalt levels >3.0 μg/L. Another two patients (8.) were noted to have greater trochanteric bursitis on MARS MRI, both with serum cobalt levels <1.0 μg/L. Serum cobalt levels were <1.0 μg/L in 16/17 remaining patients (94.) without MARS MRI abnormalities; the final patient had a cobalt level of 1.4 μg/L. One patient (4.) had serum chromium level >3.0 μg/L with associated abnormal periprosthetic fluid collection. None of the patients had serum titanium levels >5.0 μg/L. Conclusion: Approximately 1 in 12 well functioning patients with DM articulations had elevated serum cobalt levels associated with abnormal fluid collections identifiable on MARS MRI.NotesPaper #26MARS MRI Abnormalities in Asymptomatic Primary THA Patients with Dual Mobility Hip Prostheses Nathanael D. Heckmann, MD, Brian C. H. Chung, MD, Xiao T. Chen, MD, Luke R. Lovro, MD, Eric White, MD, Alexander B. Christ, MD, Donald B. Longjohn, MD, Daniel A. Oakes, MD, Jay R. Lieberman, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program44The moderator will conduct a poll of the membership using an audience response system with real time display of results and commentary and will ask the audience a series of questions about their current practices in perioperative and intraoperative management of primary THA and TKA. The audience will respond using the audience response system and results will be displayed immediately. The moderator will weave in comparison of the current year's responses to data gathered in previous years to demonstrate areas of practice evolution. The symposium will place emphasis on areas of rapid practice change. Learning Objectives:1.Identify what AAHKS peers are currently doing for perioperative management of primary THA and TKA and how this has changed in the key areas in the past two years.2.Identify what AAHKS peers are currently doing with respect to intraoperative decisions, choices, and practices in primary THA and TKA and how this has changed in the past two years.Outline:IntroductionPrimary THA: Perioperative management Primary THA: Intraoperative decisions/choices/practices Primary TKA: Perioperative management Primary TKA: Intraoperative decisions/choices/practicesDiscussionNotesSymposium IVPractice Norms in Primary Hip and Knee Arthroplasty: What is Everyone Else Doing? Moderator: Daniel J. Berry, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting45Introduction: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a life changing event. Many patients stop smoking prior to their elective surgery as part of preoperative optimization. However, it is unknown how many of these patients relapse to smoking after their surgery. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of smoking relapse and its association with periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) in a large non select cohort of patients. Methods: We conducted a multicenter study and retrospectively identified patients who underwent primary TKA between 2000 and 2020. Patients were stratified into four groups: current smokers (A), former smokers (B), ceased smoking for the procedure (C), and nonsmokers (D). Patients were followed for at least two years and the relapsed cases were identified. The association between smoking status and PJI was investigated using multivariate regression analysis. Results: 16,322 patients were identified who underwent 19,986 total knee arthroplasties during the study period. Of these patients, 1,352 (8.) were current smokers, 4,522 (27.) were former smokers, 3,575 (21.) ceased smoking for their procedure and 6,873 (42.) were nonsmokers. Current smokers were significantly more likely than nonsmokers to undergo reoperation for infection (OR:2.12[CI:1.42 3.25];p=0.04), and former smokers were at no increased risk (OR,1.12[CI,0.63 1.45];p=0.71). Of group C patients only 1,258 (35.) had relapse within two years after surgery. The rate of infection was significantly higher in patients who returned to smoking compared to those who didn’t (5. vs. 0.; OR:2.1[ CI, 1.53 2.44]).Conclusion: Majority of patients who stopped smoking did not have a relapse within two years after surgery. It appears that TKA not only can improve patients’ functionality but also is a turning point that prevents future smoking in majority of patients. Smoking is a major risk factor for PJI and patients who return to smoking are at a higher risk.NotesPaper #27Total Knee Arthroplasty Can Save Lungs Alisina Shahi, MD, PhD, Ali R. Oliashirazi, MD, Matthew L. Brown, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program46Introduction: The optimal administration of dexamethasone for postoperative pain management and recovery following primary, elective total knee arthroplasty (TKA) remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of a second intravenous (IV) dose of dexamethasone on postoperative pain scores, inpatient opioid consumption and functional recovery after primary elective TKA. Methods: A retrospective review of 1,951 patients who underwent primary elective TKA between May 2020 and April 2021 was conducted. A total of 399 patients who received two perioperative doses (2D) of dexamethasone 10 mg IV were propensity matched 1:1 to a control group of 399 patients who received one perioperative dose (1D) of dexamethasone 10 mg IV. To assess the primary outcome of opiate consumption, nursing documented opiate administration events were converted into morphine milligram equivalences (MMEs) for consecutive 24 hour postoperative intervals. Postoperative pain and functional status were also assessed using the Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) for pain and the Activity Measure for Post Acute Care (AM PAC) scores, respectively. Results: A total of 798 patients were included in the analysis (1D = 399, 2D = 399). Compared to the 1D control group, the 2D group demonstrated significantly lower overall inpatient opiate consumption (33.4±59.3 vs. 54.2±119.0 MME; 38. decrease, p=0.004) and lower VRS pain scores at 36 48 hours (4.70±2.03 vs. 5.27±1.84; p=0.021) and 48 60 hours (4.71±2.07 vs. 5.50±2.08; p=0.020) postoperatively. The 2D cohort also had a shorter hospital length of stay (1.61±1.21 vs. 1.87±2.34 days; p=0.048) than the 1D control group. AM PAC scores did not significantly differ between cohorts. Conclusion: The administration of a second perioperative dexamethasone dose significantly decreased opioid consumption in the immediate postoperative period. Length of stay and inpatient opioid administration can be significantly reduced while maintaining a comparable functional recovery and superior pain control.NotesPaper #28Second Dose of Dexamethasone Reduces Opioid Consumption, Pain and Length of Stay in Primary TKA Jerry Arraut, BS, Christian T. Oakley, BS, Mark Kurapatti, BS, Omid S. Barzideh, MD, Joshua C. Rozell, MD, Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MSc www.AAHKS.org/Meeting47Introduction: Recent data suggest that aspirin may be as effective at preventing venous thromboembolism (VTE) as other commonly utilized agents such as warfarin. However, all data to date is limited by selection bias as many surgeons who use aspirin selectively give high risk patients alternative agents. Therefore, this study aims to compare rates of VTE in patients who received aspirin compared to warfarin while accounting for surgeon selection bias using instrumental variable analysis (IVA). Methods: The Premier Database was queried to identify patients undergoing primary elective total knee (TKA) or total hip arthroplasty (THA) from 2015 2020. Patients who underwent THA or TKA by surgeons who used aspirin in > of their patients were compared to patients whose surgeon utilized warfarin in > of their patients. Patients were grouped based on their surgeon allocation regardless of the regimen they received. Univariate and multivariate analysis was performed to assess the 90 day risk of pulmonary embolism (PE), deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and bleeding complications. IVA was performed to account for surgeon selection bias using surgeon preference as an instrument. Results: Overall, 175,707 patients were identified in the aspirin surgeon cohort and 39,681 patients in the warfarin surgeon cohort. In the aspirin surgeon cohort, 93. received aspirin and in the warfarin surgeon cohort, 96. received warfarin. Rates of DVT (0. vs. 0., p=0.336) and PE (0. vs. 0., p=0.180) were not significantly different between cohorts. IVA demonstrated an increased risk for DVT (OR 1.07, p=0.018), decreased risk of transfusion (OR 0.70, p< 0.001) and no difference in the risk of PE (OR 1.01, p=0.798) associated with the aspirin cohort compared to warfarin cohort. These findings were consistent on multivariate analysis. Conclusion: After accounting for surgeon selection bias, aspirin use was associated with an increased risk for DVT but decreased risk for transfusion compared to warfarin. These