determined that to facilitate care decisions, it would be prudent to incorporate contemporary “Grade Group” categorizations (Gleason 6 = Grade Group 1; Gleason 3+4 = Grade Group 2; Gleason 4+3 = Grade Group 3; Gleason score 4+4 = Grade Group 4, and Gleason score 4+5 = Grade Group 5) that were recently validated and endorsed by USCAP and WHO, as a cornerstone of subcategorizing the intermediate risk group into “favorable” and “unfavorable” intermediate risk group categories (Table 3).11 13 Accordingly, the Panel has defined favorable intermediate risk as those patients having Grade Group 2 cancers and PSA < 10 ng/ml, whereas unfavorable intermediate risk is comprised of men with either Grade Group 2 cancer with PSA = 10 20, or any Grade Group 3 with PSA <20 (Table 3). Alternatively, it has been proposed that men with more than one unfavorable risk feature (Grade Group 2, cT2b c, PSA 10 20 ng/ml, or > positive cores) should be considered unfavorable.10 Evidence that > positive cores has consistent prognostic validity is less robust than evidence supporting the distinction between Grade Group 2 and 3, or the evidence of differential outcomes based on PSA less than or greater than 10ng/ml; therefore, the Panel opted not to include percentage positive biopsy core in the subcategorization of intermediate risk cancers. Similarly, there was concern that in the unusual scenario of a man with cT2b or cT2c and a PSA between 10 and 20 ng/ml, but Grade Group 1, this may not represent unfavorable risk either, though this also requires formal validation in future studies. As such, unfavorable intermediate risk was defined as Grade Group 3 or Grade Group 2 and either a PSA between 10 and 20 ng/ml and clinical stage cT2b or cT2c. The Panel did not substratify high risk patients into high risk and very high risk (as has been proposed by the NCCN). The rationale to not further substratify high risk men is not based upon differences in outcome, but rather the lack of clinical utility as a context for decisions about treatment options is generally similar between high risk and very high risk men. However, the Panel did keep the distinction between very low and low risk as this does have clinical utility in terms of the optimal management for these men. Finally, the panel acknowledges that multivariable nomograms can also be used to predict the risk of many clinically relevant outcomes. Of these, the CAPRA score has emerged as a well validated and often used risk scoring system, though it has yet to be widely American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 12 incorporated into clinical trial design.9,14 While the Panel acknowledges that nomograms have advantages in terms of accuracy, there is lack of consensus regarding the best nomogram and what outcome should be measured. II. SHARED DECISION MAKING (SDM) 1. Counseling of patients to select a management strategy for localized prostate cancer should incorporate shared decision making and explicitly consider cancer severity (risk category), patient values and preferences, life expectancy, pre treatment general functional and genitourinary symptoms, expected post treatment functional status, and potential for salvage treatment. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Prostate cancer treatment is a complex medical decision. In almost all cases, there is not a single best treatment choice with regard to oncologic outcomes or side effects. Treatment selection should consider patient, tumor, and treatment related factors. However, men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer are often not presented with a complete description of all treatment options and treatment related side effects; up to a quarter of men are not asked about their treatment preferences.15 It is the consensus of the Panel that clinicians should fully engage in shared decision making (SDM), allowing patient values to drive this decision. SDM is a collaborative decision making process between patients and their clinicians. SDM is especially relevant in discussion of prostate cancer treatment because such decisions involve multiple clinically accepted options, and the ratio of benefits to harms is uncertain, equivalent, or “preference sensitive” (i.e. dependent on the value that an individual patient may place on them).16,17 SDM aims to improve the quality of medical decisions by helping patients choose options consistent with their own values and in accordance with the best available scientific evidence.18 21 RCTs of SDM versus routine care have demonstrated that patients engaged in SDM are more knowledgeable, have more realistic expectations, participate more actively in the care process, and more frequently arrive at decisions aligned with their personal preferences.17,18 The Institute of Medicine and the AUA have both articulated strong support for the use of SDM for complex decisions such as treatment for localized prostate cancer.22,23 2. Prostate cancer patients should be counseled regarding the importance of modifiable health related behaviors or risk factors, such as smoking and obesity. (Expert Opinion) While age is a well established risk factor for prostate cancer, there are now clear data showing that other patient related factors such as smoking and excess body weight, typically assessed as a high body mass index (BMI), are correlated with prostate cancer death.24,25 Moreover, these factors are also risk factors for death from any cause. As such, clinicians are strongly encouraged to use the time of prostate cancer diagnosis as a “teachable moment” to counsel patients about weight loss and smoking cessation. In regards to surgically treated patients, in general, smoking, older age, and obesity increase the risk of perioperative complications, including bleeding, infections, and deep venous thromboses in non prostate surgeries.26 28 As similar results have been seen elsewhere in the urological literature, there is no reason to believe these factors do not contribute to perioperative morbidity from prostate cancer.29 Another factor linked with poor American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® TABLE 3: Risk Stratification for Localized Prostate Cancer Very Low Risk PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a AND < of biopsy cores positive AND no core with > involved, AND PSA density <0.15 ng/ml/cc Low Risk PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a Intermediate Risk PSA 10 <20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 2 3 OR clinical stage T2b c  Favorable: Grade Group 1 (with PSA 10 <20) OR Grade Group 2 (with PSA<10)  Unfavorable: Grade Group 2 (with either PSA 10 <20 or clinical stage T2b c) OR Grade Group 3 (with PSA < 20) High Risk PSA >20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 4 5 OR clinical stage >T3* *Clinical stage T3 cancer is considered locally advanced and, therefore, outside the scope of this guideline. Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 13 outcomes is frailty. Two recent studies using patients undergoing urological surgery both found that higher frailty index was associated with a significantly higher risk of complications.29,30 Similarly, another study found lower functional status (i.e. partially or totally dependent versus independent) was associated with increased risk of complications, particularly Clavien Grade IV or V complications.31 Therefore, life expectancy should be assessed on all men prior to deciding on appropriate treatment for prostate cancer. However, while these factors increase the risk of general surgical complications, the degree to which these factors impact prostate cancer treatment related morbidity is less clear. A prospective multicenter study of 1,201 prostate cancer survivors treated with radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy reported an independent association of obesity with reduced vitality or androgen function but not other aspects of health related quality of life (QoL), such as urinary or sexual function.32 As obesity is correlated with more aggressive prostate cancer, whether this worse androgen function is related independently to obesity or mediated by a greater need for hormonal therapy in obese men due to their more aggressive disease is not known. Similarly, another prospective study found obesity was associated with worse pretreatment vitality,33 which had a negative impact on posttreatment health related QoL. In regards to smoking, there are limited data linking smoking with treatment specific outcomes. However, as smoking is in general associated with poor erectile function and urinary problems, it stands to reason that smoking may make recovery of these factors post treatment more problematic. In summary, there is strong circumstantial evidence that smoking and obesity may adversely impact treatment outcomes in men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer. Given these concerns, the Panel felt that patients should be informed of the risks. Moreover, the Panel agreed that most patients should be offered the opportunity to delay therapy for a few months to allow them time to lose weight or stop smoking to reduce these perioperative risks as long as doing so does not significantly impair cancer control. 3. Clinicians should encourage patients to meet with different prostate cancer care specialists (e.g., urology and either radiation oncology or medical oncology or both), when possible to promote informed decision making. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) A patient deciding on treatment for localized prostate cancer often has many options. Even choosing among common treatment options can be overwhelming for a newly diagnosed patient. The various and evolving options also make it less likely that any individual clinician will have personal experience and current knowledge of all therapeutic modalities. Moreover, studies suggest that practitioners may have biases (conscious and subconscious, financial and non financial) for and against certain management strategies.34 Both urologists and radiation oncologists have been observed to recommend whichever therapy they deliver in their practice.35,36 Such observations are troubling, since prostate cancer treatment decisions should be concordant with patients’ preferences. Providers can combat the effects of such biases on treatment selection by engaging the patient in SDM. Additionally, patients may better understand the available treatment options by consulting with multiple practitioners skilled in the specific treatment modalities relevant to the patient’s particular case. Consultation with multiple providers, especially in teams including a medical oncologist, in one location on the same day, may benefit the patient by encouraging SDM and mitigating the possible effects of physician bias.37 39 Additionally, including primary care providers in the treatment discussion may help patients make a preference concordant decision.40 4. Effective shared decision making in prostate cancer care requires clinicians to inform patients about immediate and long term morbidity or side effects of proposed treatment or care options. (Clinical Principle) Each of the initial localized prostate cancer management strategies has a typical pattern of side effects, frequently different from those of other treatments. For properly counseled patient, these side effect profiles may determine treatment selection. However, patients are often not informed of these side effects in sufficient detail, which precludes effective SDM and may lead to a preference discordant treatment choice.23 Active surveillance has no immediate effect on urinary, bowel, or sexual function. Indeed, over time, active surveillance preserves QoL compared to surgical and radiation treatments until such time as one of those treatments may become necessary.41 However, patients who elect active surveillance as an initial management strategy may expect to see declines in urinary, bowel, and sexual function over time, and select men may experience anxiety over deferring definitive management.42 44 Changes in urinary and sexual function come as a normal part of aging in these men. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 14 Conflicting data exist regarding the possibility that serial biopsies may be associated with accelerated declines in these domains.45,46 However, prediagnosis obstructive urinary symptoms are known to be worse in active surveillance patients in comparison to those who elect surgery.47 All in all, between 50 of men who elect active surveillance as an initial management strategy have discontinued it by year 10.7,48,49 Patients electing definitive therapy are more likely to have immediate side effects. Surgery patients may experience bleeding, infection, and pain in the immediate term and then experience erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urethral stricture and (very rarely) bowel problems. The risk of perioperative death from prostate cancer surgery is <0. in most series.32,50,51 The same side effects observed after surgery are possible with radiotherapy approaches, though bowel problems are more common, and sexual and continence side effects take much longer to develop. In general, radical prostatectomy causes more early erectile dysfunction (nerve sparing better than non nerve sparing) and urinary incontinence than radiation treatment,32,52 though erectile dysfunction and urinary bother beyond two to five years may be similar between surgery and radiation.43,44,53 Radiation treatment causes more urinary irritation (brachytherapy more than external beam radiation)32 and modestly more gastrointestinal side effects than radical prostatectomy.44,52 Radiation treatment may be associated with a very small but increased risk for secondary cancer, specifically bladder cancer and rectal cancer. The suspected incidence of radiation induced second primary cancers is reported to affect between 1 of patients in the years following treatment.54,55 However, the absolute increase in risk is likely small, and published studies are difficult to interpret due to uncontrolled confounders. External beam radiotherapy is associated with secondary rectal cancers (30 cases per 100,000 person years of follow up; or 0. of patients followed for 10 years). Brachytherapy may have a slightly lower risk of secondary rectal cancers than external beam radiation (6 cases per 100,000 person years). 5. Clinicians should inform patients about suitable clinical trials and encourage patients to consider participation in such trials based on eligibility and access. (Expert Opinion) Treatment options can be characterized as standard and as investigational (clinical trial). In general standard therapies have proven efficacy and risks determined by prospective trials. There are many types of clinical trials including trials evaluating novel systemic, surgical or radiation therapies, new approaches to approved therapies, device trials and trials focusing on QoL and other patient outcomes. All clinical trials include specified aim(s) with a predetermined statistical plan. Institutional Review Boards (IRB) approve all clinical trials and patient consent forms, and all patients must sign consent for trial participation. In appropriate patients (i.e., good performance status, no active medical issues), clinical trial options should be considered, and trial options should be discussed with patients as part of the SDM process. Clinical trials are listed by diagnosis and stage on the Clinicaltrials.gov website. III. CARE OPTIONS BY CANCER SEVERITY/RISK GROUP Management options for localized prostate cancer stratified by cancer severity risk group, are summarized in Table 4 based on level of evidence and strength of recommendation. Specific guidelines for selecting management options for each localized prostate cancer risk group and the evidence basis for these recommendations follow: VERY LOW /LOW RISK DISEASE Very Low Risk: PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a AND < of biopsy cores positive AND no core with > involved, AND PSA density <0.15 ng/ml/cc Low Risk: PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a 6. Clinicians should not perform abdomino pelvic CT or routine bone scans in the staging of asymptomatic very low or low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Evidence does not support the use of these scans for staging of newly diagnosed very low and low risk prostate cancer. CT scan is very unlikely to provide actionable information in men with very low/low risk prostate cancer. Likewise, bone scans are generally unnecessary in patients with favorable risk, newly diagnosed prostate cancer (PSA <20.0 ng/mL and a Grade Group =1; or PSA<10ng/ml and Grade Group 2, Table 3); unless the patient’s history or clinical examination suggests bony involvement.56,57 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 15 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Table 4. Care Options for Localized Prostate Cancer by Level of Evidence and Strength of Recommendation1 Evidence Level/ Recommendation Strength Prostate Cancer Severity/Aggressiveness Low Risk Intermediate Risk High Risk Very Low Risk Low Risk Favorable Unfavorable A / Strong Active Surveillance NA Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy B / Moderate NA Active Surveillance Radiotherapy2 without Androgen Deprivation Therapy NA NA B / Conditional NA Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 NA NA NA C / Conditional NA Cryosurgery (whole gland) Active Surveillance OR Cryosurgery (whole gland) Cryosurgery (whole gland) NA No evidence / clinical principle or expert opinion NA Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound NA 1Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trials that constitute the basis for evidence: EORTC Bolla (XRT+ADT vs XRT): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk, high risk) SPCG4 (RP vs WW): Evidence supporting RP (intermediate risk, high risk) RTOG 9408 (XRT+ADT vs XRT): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk) PIVOT (RP vs WW): Evidence supporting AS (very low risk, low risk); RP (intermediate risk, high risk) EORTC (Widmark XRT+ADT vs ADT alone): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk, high risk) PROTECT (AS vs RP vs XRT+ADT): Evidence supporting AS (very low risk, low risk, favorable intermediate risk); RP or XRT+ADT (low risk, favorable intermediate risk) Single center RCT: Donnelly et al. (Cryo+ADT vs XRT+ADT): Evidence supporting whole gland cryotherapy (low risk, intermediate risk) 2Radiotherapy includes a range of various forms of radiotherapy delivery (e.g., IMRT, brachytherapy, other) for which details of evidence and recommendation strength are presented in statements 42 49 of the guideline text Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 16 7. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the best available care option for very low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Multiple studies have shown that overall and prostate specific mortality appears higher for men with higher baseline Gleason scores.58 61 While Gleason 6 disease may have genetic and genomic abnormalities of disease with metastatic potential (though unclear if clinically significant), substantial evidence indicates that the majority of Gleason 6 prostate cancer has limited or no metastatic potential and does not pose a threat to the patient’s life.62,63 Most Gleason pattern 3 cancers lack the characteristic genetic aberrations associated with malignancy. Very low risk patients have a lower risk of harboring occult high grade cancer than those with higher volume Gleason 6. Low PSA density and low number of cores involved are all associated with a lower risk of contemporaneous high risk disease. Long term follow up studies of very low risk patients initially managed with active surveillance have shown a metastatic progression rate of < at 15 years.7,64,65 Studies indicate that the QoL of men managed with surveillance is superior to those who are treated with surgery or radiotherapy.52 Continence and erectile function is better in men on surveillance compared to those who undergo treatment, though both decline as a natural part of aging. Aside from disease progression, a major risk of active surveillance is that entailed by serial biopsies. These are recommended at between three and five year intervals after the initial confirmatory biopsy.7,66 Biopsies are associated with risks of infection and bleeding as well as increased rates of erectile dysfunction. The risks of serial prostate biopsies on health and QoL, particularly if performed at infrequent intervals, are considerably less than the long term risks of surgery and radiotherapy. There is a small subset of men who find the prospect of living with untreated prostate cancer severely anxiety provoking and are unwilling to remain on surveillance.42 Thus patients with very low risk prostate cancer in most cases require no treatment and should have active surveillance as their recommended care option. 8. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the preferable care option for most low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) There is now sufficient evidence that the majority of men with low risk localized prostate cancer should initially be managed by active surveillance regardless of life expectancy. Such men with lower risk disease have a lower risk of both overall mortality and disease progression.58 61 While the natural history of active surveillance is uncertain and continues to be better defined, there is evidence that the risk of ultimate death from prostate cancer for low risk men managed with active surveillance is low. Likewise, the risk of metastases is low, though the very long term outcomes of active surveillance are not yet known. Moreover, while it is unlikely that active surveillance can lead to better oncological outcomes versus active treatment, it is clear that all treatments for prostate cancer have potential side effects. This is in sharp contrast with active surveillance, wherein the risks are related to repeat biopsies and missed occult higher risk disease, not the treatment itself. Thus, given the low risk of progression to metastatic disease on surveillance coupled with QoL benefits, active surveillance is the preferred management for most low risk men. The natural history of active surveillance for low risk men (as opposed to very low risk men) is less clear in part due to inherent limitations in biopsy sampling and current imaging approaches, though still appears quite favorable. The Panel acknowledges that men with higher volume disease (i.e. greater > of cores positive or those larger lesions seen on imaging), albeit still low risk, may be better served with active treatment. However, as with all treatment decisions in prostate cancer, SDM is paramount. 9. Clinicians may offer definitive treatment (i.e. radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy) to select low risk localized prostate cancer patients who may have a high probability of progression on active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Active surveillance for low risk disease reduces over treatment in prostate cancer. However, some men with low risk disease may have a higher risk of clinical progression on active surveillance and may benefit from definitive treatment at the time of diagnosis. Definitive treatment may be in the form of radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy with equivalent outcomes as discussed elsewhere in this guideline. Surgical and radiation treatments do not improve survival within 10 years of follow up compared to active surveillance for patients with early disease, but has been found to reduce disease progression and development of metastatic disease as shown in the Prostate Cancer Intervention American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 17 Versus Observation Trial (PIVOT) ( versus ) and the Prostate Testing for Cancer Treatment trial (ProtecT) ( versus ).50,51 The rationale for electing definitive treatment in low risk men is based on the fact that even men with low risk disease face a small chance of metastasis or prostate cancer specific mortality on active surveillance with data from long term studies finding this occurrence to be roughly .66 While this number is based on a combination of low and intermediate risk patients, it should be noted that metastasis occurs even in low risk patients, as evidenced by the data from the PIVOT and ProtecT trials, although at a low rate. Patients should be informed of the potential tradeoffs between immediate treatment versus active surveillance. In the PIVOT and ProtecT studies, and , respectively, of patients who started on active surveillance received treatment within 10 years.50,51 These patients likely harbored higher grade disease at the time of diagnosis, and identifying variables associated with progression may decrease the likelihood of these men missing their window for cure. Clinical predictors for an increased risk of higher grade disease or reclassification of subsequent biopsy include PSA density > 0.15, obesity as measured by BMI, African American race, and extensive Gleason 6 cancer on systematic biopsy cores.67 72 Men with a family history of aggressive prostate cancer characterized by early metastasis may not be ideal candidates for active surveillance even when presenting with low risk disease and should be counseled carefully regarding the diagnostic uncertainty of biopsy and progression. A recent analysis of the Canary Prostate Cancer Active Surveillance cohort identified patients with BMI>35kg/m as having a three fold increased risk of reclassification to higher risk disease on first surveillance biopsy. Men with PSA density >0.15ng/ml have a two fold risk of reclassification on first biopsy.67 African American men have a higher rate of reclassification than Caucasian men on active surveillance as well as a higher rate of adverse pathology on radical prostatectomy when this is chosen as definitive treatment.73,74 This is true among low risk patients, and this unique risk should be carefully weighed when deciding among treatment options. While reclassification does not always indicate that definitive treatment is required, the likelihood of short term progression must be discussed with all men considering active surveillance. The use of multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) has increased diagnostic specificity and should be considered at some point in the evaluation of men considering active surveillance. 10. Clinicians should not add ADT along with radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer with the exception of reducing the size of the prostate for brachytherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In RTOG 9408, which randomized 1,979 patients to EBRT with four months of ADT versus without ADT and had 9.1 years of median follow up, overall survival was not improved with ADT in subgroup analysis of 685 low risk patients.75 There is no randomized trial supporting a survival benefit from adding ADT to radiotherapy for low risk cancer. ADT can be used to reduce the size of the prostate to allow for improved dosimetry brachytherapy, but can cause short term sexual dysfunction and other associated side effects. 11. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that consequent side effects are considerable and survival benefit has not been shown in comparison to active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) As most men with low risk disease have favorable outcomes with active surveillance, it is unclear whether cryosurgery improves survival outcomes. One randomized trial of EBRT versus cryosurgery with primarily intermediate and high risk prostate cancer patients reported similar actuarial five year overall and disease specific survival.76 Both utilized six months of perioperative ADT for both treatment arms. Prospective randomized or comparative trials of cryosurgery with active surveillance in a low risk cohort are lacking. It is unlikely that whole gland cryosurgery can provide comparable QoL as the preferred management for most low risk men. Erectile dysfunction should be an expected outcome for potent patients. A 2009 review of the literature concluded that most patients (80 ) should expect erectile dysfunction after whole gland cryosurgery and that it should not be offered to patients who desire preservation of potency.77 As with all treatments, patients considering cryosurgery should also be informed about the risks of adverse urinary and bowel function outcomes. Urinary retention after cryosurgery can persist for a few weeks and is best managed with a urethral or suprapubic catheter. Urethral sloughing at the verumontanum where the urethral warming catheter may not fully contact the mucosa apposition can result in temporary bothersome irritative symptoms in the early recovery period. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 18 12. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) As most men with low risk disease have favorable outcomes with active surveillance, it is unclear whether focal therapy or HIFU improve survival outcomes or provide comparable QoL as the preferred management for most low risk men. Prospective randomized or comparative trials of HIFU with active surveillance or other treatment modalities are lacking. Published five year oncologic outcomes are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of low risk prostate cancer. The Panel also recognizes there is a growing interested in partial prostate treatment (i.e. focal therapy) by both patients and clinicians. Theoretical advantages include less morbidity versus whole gland treatment. However, this is at the potential expense of leaving undetected and untreated cancer. In a group of men at high risk for overtreatment and coupled with the lack of long term oncological data of focal therapy, the Panel felt it was premature at this point to consider partial prostate treatment outside of a clinical trial. 13. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with low risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Men with a life expectancy of ≤5 years do not benefit from prostate cancer screening,79 diagnosis, or treatment. Prostate cancer treatment does not improve survival within five years of follow up.51 Patients diagnosed with low risk disease and a limited life expectancy should pursue watchful waiting. Unlike active surveillance, watchful waiting carries a palliative, non aggressive intent, and does not involve routine cancer monitoring including biopsies. With watchful waiting, patients who develop symptomatic progression from prostate cancer are offered treatments to palliate these symptoms. An accurate determination of a man’s life expectancy based on age and comorbidities is difficult.80 Methods available to determine life expectancy include clinician prediction, model prediction and publicly available calculators (e.g. https://www.ssa.gov/OACT/population/longevity.html). Life expectancy may be assessed in conjunction with a man’s primary care physician to determine a shared decision regarding surveillance. Clinicians should include the life expectancy estimate in a discussion with patient and family to develop rational individual patient treatment plans. 14. Among most low risk localized prostate cancer patients, tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in the selection of candidates for active surveillance. (Expert Opinion) Prospective active surveillance cohorts now comprise >10,000 patients, thousands of whom have been followed for >10 years. Clinical parameters (e.g., PSA, PSA density, extent of disease on biopsy, race, T stage) allow for stratification for risk of co existent higher grade disease. Monitoring low risk patients on surveillance is associated with a low risk of prostate cancer specific mortality. Therefore, the benefit to most patients of a biomarker to further stratify patients according to the risk of progression is modest. However, selected patients, particularly those whose risk factors suggest they are at above average risk for higher grade disease, may benefit from genomic testing. There are two potential benefits: reassurance for those patients with a favorable genomic risk score that conservative management is likely to be safe, and earlier identification of those at risk for disease progression on active surveillance who could benefit from treatment. As of the publication of this document, the three genetic tissue assays summarized below have been approved by the FDA for men with prostate cancer. None of these tests have yet been validated as providing substantial benefit in the active surveillance population. Genomic Classifier (GC) This is a 22 marker genomic classifier (GC), based on RNA expression. GC had independent predictive value on multivariable analysis for predicting metastasis following prostatectomy, with a hazard ration (HR) of 1.5 for each 10 percent increase in score,81 and these results were validated in two separate prostatectomy cohorts.82,83 A high score on biopsy is associated with an increased risk of metastasis (HR 1.7 for each increase in score).84,85 Genomic Prostate Score (GPS): This assay incorporates 12 cancer genes that represent four biological pathways of prostate cancer oncogenesis: the American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 19 androgen receptor pathway, cellular organization, stromal response, and proliferation. A 20 point increase in the genomic prostate score (GPS) is associated with a statistically significantly increased risk of high grade and/or non organ confined disease (odds ratio [OR] 1.9, CI 1.3 2.9).86 88 Cell Cycle Progression (CCP): This analyzes 31 cell cycle related genes and 15 housekeeping genes by quantitative RT PCR. The Transatlantic Prostate Group examined cell cycle progression (CCP) scores using needle biopsies of a conservatively managed prostate cancer cohort from Great Britain.89 In this cohort, of 349 men managed without primary treatment, the cumulative incidence of death was increased among those with CCP scores >2 ( of the population) compared with those with lower CCP scores. Patient outcomes could not be differentiated in those with lower CCP scores. The HR of prostate cancer death was 1.7 per unit increase in CCP score to 10 or CAPRA high risk disease.90 INTERMEDIATE RISK DISEASE Intermediate Risk: PSA 10 <20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 2 3 OR clinical stage T2b c  Favorable: Grade Group 1 (with PSA 10 <20) OR Grade Group 2 (with PSA<10)  Unfavorable: Grade Group 2 (with either PSA 10 <20 or clinical stage T2b c) OR Grade Group 3 (with PSA < 20) 15. Clinicians should consider staging unfavorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Expert Opinion) The probability for metastasis at diagnosis of localized prostate cancer associates with risk classification.91 The presence of metastasis increases with tumor stage and influences treatment options. Baseline staging recommendations are guides with the goal of reducing or eliminating routine imaging in men at low risk for metastasis and performing imaging of common metastatic sites in men at most risk for metastasis. The most common sites are pelvic/retroperitoneal lymph nodes and bones. Less common metastatic sites include lung and liver; however, metastasis to lung and liver are often seen at late disease stage or with uncommon variants, such as small cell. For men with intermediate risk prostate cancer, the Panel does not recommend routine imaging at diagnosis in all patients. The Panel recommends metastasis staging for men with two or more of the following features palpable nodule on DRE (stage T2b/c), Gleason 7 (3+4 or 4+3) or PSA >10. The type of imaging performed may vary by physician preference and availability, but testing should evaluate the pelvic/retroperitoneal lymph nodes by cross sectional imaging and bones by bone scintigraphy (99mTc MDP).92 The recommended cross sectional imaging is either MRI of the prostate or pelvis or CT scan of the abdomen/pelvis. There are relative advantages and disadvantages associated with MRI and CT.