Weight Loss Surgery Seminar Before coming to NYU Langone’s for a surgery consultation, you must attend a free information session. This session helps you decide if bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, is right for you. One of our bariatric surgeons discusses each procedure option and the risks and benefits associated with surgery. At the conclusion of the seminar, you receive information about how you can join our program. Visit one of our locations to learn more about scheduling a seminar. Scheduling a Consultation After you have completed the seminar, the next step is to schedule a consultation with one of our surgeons. Find a doctor and schedule an appointment Spiritual, Religious & Chaplaincy Services for Adults At NYU Langone, we understand that spiritual and emotional wellbeing may be just as important to your health and recovery as the medical treatments you receive. Because of that, our spiritual care team is an integral part of your care. Chaplains, imams, priests, and rabbis are available around the clock to meet with you and your family. spiritual care team is trained to counsel people of all faiths. A chaplain can talk with you about your diagnosis and help you cope with the emotions that accompany illness and treatment. A chaplain also provides counseling on faith-related issues, supports you and your family during difficult conversations, and offers prayer, if desired. Request a Visit To request a visit from a chaplain, please fill out our online form or ask your nurse. You can contact our spiritual care team directly at the following locations: 212-263-5903 718-630-7505 516-663-4749 For urgent requests, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Religious, spiritual, and chaplaincy services for children and their families If you already have a connection to a local religious institution, your clergy member is welcome to visit you. Religious Services, Items & Meal Requests Prayer & Meditation Spaces Chaplain Internship Programs At NYU Langone, we understand how important it is for people to have accurate, high-quality health information about medical conditions, medications, and procedures. Our patient education librarians can provide you with reliable information to help you start conversations with doctors and loved ones about your medical concerns. Our patient education librarians answer questions from current and former NYU Langone patients, family members, and caregivers as well as potential patients. Though we can’t answer specific questions about your medical condition or symptoms, we can help you learn more about NYU Langone doctors and their areas of specialty. To ask a health-related question, please use our or call us at 646-754-5444 . We will respond to your request within four business days. Our Patient Education Librarian Sallie Willcox, MLS, is an NYU Langone patient education librarian and a health literacy specialist in the Department of Patient and Family Education. Ms. Willcox converts patient education handouts and other documents provided by our doctors, nurses, and other clinicians into plain language, applying health literacy best practices. As a librarian, she spends time managing and promoting patient education materials and resources, as well as fielding questions from staff and patients about these resources. Our Tobacco Cessation Program at NYU Langone can help you quit smoking, vaping or smoking e-cigarettes, and using other tobacco products. Cigarette smoking is a significant risk factor for numerous health conditions, most notably lung cancer, emphysema, and heart disease. Smoking has also been demonstrated to speed the progression of these and other diseases. Quitting smoking or other tobacco and nicotine-containing products can be challenging, and many smokers become frustrated by the cycle of quitting and relapsing. Experts at NYU Langone can help you break loose from this cycle and successfully quit for life. Tobacco Cessation Services for All Patients of NYU Langone Tobacco cessation assistance is available to all patients of NYU Langone. Therapies are aimed at addressing the physical and psychological dependence on nicotine and tobacco products. Our approach is tailored to your individual needs and includes a range of options. Individual counseling is available to teach you new coping skills and strategies to deal with situations and feelings that may trigger tobacco use. We can also help you choose the best smoking cessation medication for you. Most insurance plans are accepted. For more information about the customized Tobacco Cessation Program, please call 212-263-8865 Bariatric surgery can be an effective way to lose weight and improve your overall health. At NYU Langone’s , we help you decide whether surgery is the best treatment for you. We also provide information on payment and insurance coverage for bariatric surgery During our Weight Loss Surgery Seminar we explain your surgical options risks and benefits that come with each procedure, and what to expect after surgery If you need after a previous weight loss procedure, our doctors can guide you toward the right treatment. We also provide weight loss surgery for adolescents who have a body mass index of 35 or greater and are at increased risk of related health challenges. We encourage all of our patients to participate in our , where you can benefit from the experience of others who are thinking about or have completed weight loss surgery. Palliative Care & Supportive Care for Adults If you have a serious or life-limiting illness, NYU Langone’s palliative care and supportive care team can help relieve the symptoms and side effects of your condition as well as provide emotional support. Palliative care is available to people who are being cared for in the hospital as well as those receiving treatment in an outpatient setting, where it is also known as supportive care. Our care teams work in collaboration with your primary and specialty doctors to understand your physical symptoms, emotional needs, and personal goals. We thoroughly explain your treatment options and work with you and your family to develop a personalized care plan based on your values and treatment preferences. Our team specializes in , which allows you to express your values and care preferences so that they can be honored should you lose the ability to make these decisions for yourself. NYU Langone’s Palliative Care Program has received specialty certification from The Joint Commission. This designation reflects our patient- and family-centered approach to providing the best possible quality of life for people with serious illness. Our in-hospital palliative care services are available at the following locations: For services at 212-263-0900 At NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, please call NYU Langone Palliative Medicine Associates—Mineola 516-663-2052 Palliative care for children is available at . Please discuss the request with your child’s nurse. supportive oncology team at Perlmutter Cancer Center for people receiving cancer treatment, as well as services for people with chronic conditions, including heart and dementia If you or a loved one could benefit from palliative or supportive care services, please ask your doctor or nurse for a referral. If you have any additional questions about palliative or supportive care services, please contact Louise de Silva, program coordinator, at 646-501-4160 Palliative Care & Supportive Care Outpatient Services Palliative Care & Supportive Care Team Social Work & Care Management Services for Adults The social work and care management teams at NYU Langone have one goal: to make your entire hospital experience as seamless as possible. From the moment you are admitted to the hospital—and even before—our social workers, care managers, and case managers work closely with your medical team to make sure you have the social, emotional, and medical support necessary to help make the transition from NYU Langone to your home as safe and comfortable as possible. After all, home is likely where you can best recover. Learn more about our patient services at NYU Langone’s . Social workers are also available through the social work and care management services for children Social Workers and Care Managers Social workers are healthcare professionals with specialized master’s degrees who address the emotional and practical concerns of patients. We advocate on your behalf to guarantee you have access to all of the services you need and are entitled to receive. We help you and your family to understand the particulars of your care and discharge plan, make sure you have all of the resources needed to return home safely, and mediate discussions between you and your doctor regarding your care. We can also discuss any feelings of , as well as concerns about safety at home. Anyone at NYU Langone can request assistance from a social worker, and all conversations are kept confidential. Social work services are available to all NYU Langone patients through any of our inpatient locations, as well as the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Care managers and case managers are registered nurses who serve as advocates and educators regarding the discharge planning process. We work with your doctor to determine when you are medically ready to go home and ensure that you have a safe discharge plan in place. We also serve as a liaison between the medical team and your insurance company when planning for services needed at discharge. A member of the care management team follows up with you by phone after discharge to address any questions you may have regarding your transition home. Ethics Consultation Service If a patient or his or her family members have a difference of opinion among themselves or with the physician regarding the recommended medical treatment plan, they can request an ethics consultation. This consult is provided by healthcare professionals with experience in bioethics and conflict management. An ethics consult may be helpful in the following situations: family members or the healthcare team believe a patient is incapable of making independent decisions a patient is experiencing family issues that may affect care a patient has an idea regarding treatment that conflicts with the medical plan a patient needs the treatment plan to be more thoroughly explained a patient and medical team are dealing with communication or cultural barriers that may affect care During the consult, the ethicist meets with the family and the care team to come up with a mutually agreeable plan of action. The opinion of the ethics consultant is advisory. Referrals to the ethics consult team may be made by anyone involved in a patient’s care, including staff, family, or the patient. All referrals are confidential. After a referral is made, an ethics consultant reviews the patient’s information and contacts the referral source within 24 hours or as soon as possible for urgent referrals. The ethics consultant also helps with concerns related to , including do-not-resuscitate or do-not-intubate orders and healthcare proxy issues, and works with families to determine the wishes of a patient who did not have an advance directive in place. To request an ethics consult, talk to your doctor or nurse. For urgent consultations between 5:00PM and 8:00AM on weekdays, or on weekends, ask the hospital operator to contact the social work administrator on call. Referrals may also be made from outside the hospital by calling the following numbers: For Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion, please call 212-263-5018 For NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, please call and ask the operator to connect you to the director or assistant director of care management and social work. At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, please call 718-630-8333 . If the consultant is not available, please call the hospital operator and ask to page the ethics consultant. 516-663-2341 to connect to the social work and care management team. Supportive and Hospice Care For adults and families at NYU Langone with quality-of-life or end-of-life concerns, our social workers can provide information about supportive care , also known as palliative care, and hospice. Social workers are members of our supportive care team, which is devoted to improving the quality of life of people with serious or life-threatening illnesses. Our social workers also collaborate with our hospice program, which is contracted through the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, to determine the best plan of care for a patient at the end of life. We can also help you create an advance directive that includes important information about healthcare decisions and the designation of a proxy if you are ever unable to make your own healthcare decisions. Social Work and Care Management at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Social workers at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion facilitate numerous patient and family support groups and arrange other services for patients and caregivers. These include the following. Left Ventricular Assist Device Support Adults who are planning to have a surgically implanted first need a psychosocial assessment, which is conducted by one of our social workers. We make sure you understand how this device works and its impact on your everyday life. Our social workers also help to put in place the support you need to handle living with an LVAD. This includes ensuring you have a care partner to assist you, getting your home equipped to house the LVAD, and confirming that you can afford the required follow-up care. Organ Transplant Support Before you receive an organ transplant, our social workers counsel you and your family to make sure you understand the transplantation process, what to expect during the recovery period, and the long-term lifestyle changes that accompany this procedure. Inpatient Psychiatric Treatment inpatient psychiatry unit at Tisch Hospital allows adults to voluntarily sign themselves in for treatment. Social workers are paired with physicians to provide highly focused, personalized, and collaborative care for people seeking psychiatric treatment. Our concern for your wellbeing continues even after you return home. We follow up with you for one month after discharge to make certain you are getting the outpatient care that you need to safely resume your regular activities. Care Transitions For adults who need extra support after they leave the hospital, our Care Transitions team helps oversee the move back home or to a skilled nursing or assisted living facility. Adults seen by the Care Transitions team include those dealing with medically and surgically complex conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , or advanced illnesses such as kidney failure or The goal of Care Transitions is to confirm that adults and their families have the knowledge and skill set needed to ensure the continued health and wellbeing of the patient after he or she is discharged from NYU Langone. We teach you how to recognize symptoms that should be reported to your doctor and give you the skills and resources necessary to be safe in your environment. We also verify that you are taking the right medications at the right dosage and educate you about how to use them properly. We teach you how to make healthy choices for your overall health. This may include information about , stress management, and exercise. We can also direct you to resources to help with issues related to addiction and depression. Our goal is to help you transition safely to your next care environment and teach you the skills you need to maintain and improve your health. To learn more about Care Transitions, ask your healthcare team for more information. To request a visit from a social worker at Tisch Hospital or Kimmel Pavilion, call or ask your nurse to contact us on your behalf. Referrals to care management are generally made by your social worker. Social Work and Care Management at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital We offer several care management and social work programs to support patients coming to NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital for surgery. Guided Patient Services Program Our guided patient services program is a roadmap for your surgical journey. A clinical care coordinator from our care management team contacts you two to four weeks before the day of your scheduled surgery. Our first goal is to assist you in preparing for the procedure. This includes identifying your support person and letting you know what to expect during the hospital stay. We also discuss the discharge plan recommended by your physician and provide information about the services that are available to you during recovery. Planning your transition home includes talking about meal preparation, accessibility, pet care, and any concerns you may have. We want to ensure that your surgery and recovery are as stress-free as possible. Postoperative Care and Discharge Plan After surgery, a social worker and care manager meet with you to confirm that the discharge plan discussed during your preadmission call is in place. If any changes are needed, they coordinate with your surgeon and other members of your medical team. For adults who are admitted urgently due to a fracture, infection, or other unexpected reason, a social worker completes a psychosocial assessment and collaborates with your healthcare team to develop an optimal discharge plan. Our care managers also communicate with insurance companies to make sure the services we request are covered. A social worker meets with you at the bedside to explain your discharge plan and ensures it is carried out as seamlessly as possible. We can provide emotional support during a time of crisis and teach you and your family coping strategies that can help when facing serious illness or injury. We can also talk to you and your caregiver about the information you need to safely transition back into your home and what to expect as you continue your recovery. Coordination of Transportation and Home Care Services The care management and social work teams can coordinate transportation from the hospital if necessary. We also make sure that you have the help that you need at home by making referrals to the appropriate home health agencies. Our care management and social work teams strive to provide you with the information you need before surgery and the support you need at home to make a complete recovery. For more information on care management and social work at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, please call the care management and social work department at 212-598-6030 Continuing Education for Social Workers The social work program at NYU Langone is recognized by the New York State Education Department’s State Board for Social Work as an approved provider of continuing education for licensed social workers (NYU Hospitals Center, Department of Social Work, provider #0346). For more information about course offerings, please call Integrative Health Services for Adults NYU Langone offers integrative health, health promotion, and wellness programs to complement your conventional healthcare. Services are offered to patients, caregivers, and anyone in the NYU Langone community through our Lerner Health Promotions Program. Integrative health practitioners can help you manage the physical and emotional side effects of your treatment, as well as provide services that help you stay well. We help as you prepare for treatment and provide care during your hospital stay and after you return home. Our services include mind–body bedside care at NYU Langone’s to help people cope with the pain, stress, and that can accompany illness and treatment. We also provide guided imagery, massage, energy therapies, yoga, and acupuncture treatment through our . Our staff of licensed professionals works with thousands of people per year through our program . We also partner with The Monday Campaigns to share healthy behavior reminders with patients and staff on topics such as eating less meat, exercising more, and limiting stress. To learn more about our integrative health programs, you can contact us at the following locations: At Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion, please call , email , or ask your healthcare provider to make a referral. 718-630-6486 Ihbk@NYULangone.org , or ask your healthcare provider for a bedside referral for help with pain management. We thank Sid and Helaine Lerner, who since 1996 have provided generous support for our integrative health and health promotion services. Additional Integrative Health Services Learn more about our integrative health services at NYU Langone’s , as well as services for children at Lerner Holistic Integrative Health Nursing Fellowship The Lerner Holistic Integrative Health Nursing Fellowship offers a unique, immersive experience that aims to train a cohort of nurses to develop a foundational understanding of holistic nursing, integrative health, and the mind–body connection. Through this program, fellows practice self-care, build resiliency skills, and apply evidence-informed holistic techniques to their personal and professional nursing practices. Lerner fellows research, develop, and implement an evidence-based holistic, integrative health project that will impact the wellbeing of patients, staff, or caregivers within their organization, priming nurses as a leaders of whole health in their institution. Learn more about the As a part of our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover, NYU Langone is devoted to excellence in medical education. made history in 2018 as the first top-ranked MD program to provide full-tuition scholarships to all students in good standing. This initiative set a new standard in medical education, making it more accessible to the brightest minds. That same year, NYU Langone launched NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the nation’s first tuition-free, three-year medical school dedicated to primary care. In 2023, the school was renamed to honor NYU Langone Health CEO Robert I. Grossman, MD. It also received a landmark $200 million gift from Kenneth and Elaine Langone, ensuring that aspiring physicians there can continue to pursue their education tuition-free. NYU Grossman School of Medicine Cost of Attendance NYU School of Medicine Offers Full-Tuition Scholarships to All New & Current Medical Students NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Financial Aid Five Things to Know About Long Island’s Only Tuition-Free Medical School During a , every second counts. Stroke doesn’t wait for anyone. Stroke is a “brain attack” that occurs when a blood clot travels to the brain or a brain blood vessel bursts, blocking blood flow. For every minute the brain is deprived of oxygen-rich blood, 2 million brain cells die, and cannot grow back. But the sooner you get lifesaving treatment to restore brain blood flow, the better the outcome for patients. Experts at NYU Langone’s Comprehensive Stroke Cente r are available 24/7 to provide the most advanced and expedited stroke care. Faster stroke treatment saves lives, reduces the risk of debilitating disability, and increases the chances for a full recovery. We’re proud to say we treat stroke patients 10 minutes faster and have successfully restored blood flow in more patients than any other hospital in New York. Our team is always on deck to provide the fastest and most advanced lifesaving stroke treatment possible. Neurology Services Stroke Treatment Services Act FAST Prevent Stroke You can’t see or feel them, but germs can be anywhere. That’s why we clean, then clean again, to prevent hospital-acquired infection, which is an infection patients can get while being treated at a healthcare facility for another condition. At NYU Langone, our protocols, including our infection prevention and control team’s cleaning regimen and strict infection-control guidelines, ensure we have the lowest infection rate among academic medical centers in the country. Driven by the latest technology, we’re also developing and applying new tools, such as our Molecular Outbreak Program . Using genome sequencing, we identify and track infectious disease-causing pathogens to prevent them from spreading. The program provides real-time data that can generate early warning signs of potential healthcare-associated infections. It’s just one way we use focused infection prevention measures to keep our patients safe during their hospital stay. Source: CMS Hospital Acquired Complications Reduction Program, lowest complication rate among comparable tertiary hospitals across the United States. Safety Initiatives Recognition for Patient Quality and Safety PrEP Program for HIV Prevention visits or in-person doctor’s appointments. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a daily medication that protects against HIV infection , is available through NYU Langone’s and at locations. To start PrEP treatment, you can schedule a video visit through our Virtual Urgent Care service at any time, day or night. If you prefer an in-person visit, you can schedule an appointment with one of our providers. PrEP is recommended for people who do not have HIV but are at high risk of contracting the infection, including those who have sex with people who have HIV, inject drugs for recreational use, or have been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection within the last six months. To be most effective, PrEP must be taken every day. Our providers are available around-the-clock to initiate your pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) treatment. Make a Virtual Urgent Care Appointment NYU Langone providers can help you determine whether PrEP is right for you. During your initial appointment, either virtual or in person, we talk with you about your overall HIV risk, explain how PrEP works, and answer any questions you have. Your doctor then orders laboratory tests, including an HIV test, which you must complete before treatment can begin. Once your doctor receives the test results and you are medically cleared to begin treatment, a prescription for PrEP is sent directly to your pharmacy. After you start treatment, our patient navigator contacts you to answer any questions, provide referrals to additional health services as requested, and schedule additional appointments. You receive follow-up care every three months, which includes routine HIV testing. PrEP is available to anyone regardless of immigration status, insurance access, or ability to pay. A Virtual Urgent Care video visit can be scheduled at a time that is most convenient for you. An in-person appointment is available by calling 718-431-2667 or by scheduling directly with one of our providers. Our internal medicine experts provide treatment that can help prevent HIV infection. Sandeep Bhat Claire Kiefer Diana S. Lee Stephnie F. Miller NP, DNP Atif Muhammad Katherine Mullins Our Affiliated Programs and Locations Our doctors are available anytime for Virtual Urgent Care video visits. We provide primary and specialized medical care, as well as dental, behavioral health, and support services, at locations across New York City. Learn More about the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone CDC Grant Extends Successful HIV Prevention Program What’s worse than having to be in the hospital? Having to go back again and again. That’s why we’re working hard to achieve the lowest readmission rates in New York. A hospital’s readmission rate is when patients go home from the hospital but wind up returning for the same or related care within 30, 60, or 90 days. It is one measure of the quality of hospital care At NYU Langone, we’re using cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence and other tools to help guide our efforts to reduce readmissions. And it’s working. We’re doing all we can to make sure our patients receive the best care during and after their hospital stay, so they can go home and stay there. Source: Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Unplanned hospital visits, October 2024, lowest among academic medical centers in New York state. Our AI Readmission Rate Program The recreation and creative arts therapists at NYU Langone provide therapies during the hospital stay that allow you to participate in activities that interest you, while creating an environment that addresses your physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs. Many patients leave with tools that can be applied to their everyday lives. We assist adults during inpatient cardiac and physical rehabilitation, as well as those who have , are recovering from a , have an injury that requires an adaptation such as amputation , or are dealing with cognitive impairment due to or brain injury. Services are available to inpatients at , and in our epilepsy, psychiatric, and medical intensive care units at Our services are diverse and tailored to your needs. For example, people who have had a stroke may benefit from activities that help them understand place and time. We help people with physical impairments adjust to using an assistive device such as a wheelchair. People being treated for may benefit from learning new leisure skills such as music or art, which teach positive coping methods. Recreation, music, and art can be a key part of your healing process. Our recreation and creative arts therapists work to help ease your stress and share new ways to improve your emotional wellbeing. Referrals for Recreation and Creative Arts Therapies Therapy sessions are designed for individuals and groups based on your needs. To access our services, ask your doctor for a referral or call the following numbers: 212-263-6190 At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and Rusk Rehabilitation, please call 212-598-6440 Therapeutic Recreation for Adults Our certified therapeutic recreation specialists use a wide range of techniques and activities to meet your physical, cognitive, emotional, social, and leisure needs. We work with you and your family members to improve your health condition by helping you learn the skills and behaviors necessary for daily life and community involvement. Patients participate in activities that foster independence. We also teach new or adaptive skills that may be better suited to your current health needs. In addition, Rusk Rehabilitation therapists help you transition back into the community by sharing information about available resources and helping you practice navigating common recreation sites such as restaurants and movie theaters. Music Therapy for Adults Our board-certified music therapists assess your emotional wellbeing, physical health, social functioning, communication abilities, and cognitive skills through music-based responses and interventions. We use music improvisation, active music listening, songwriting, lyric discussion, music and imagery, music meditation, music performance, and learning through music. Music therapy can help reduce stress and anxiety, develop interpersonal skills, and provide a healthy emotional outlet. It can be beneficial for anyone, regardless of prior music experience. Art Therapy for Adults Art therapists use the creative process of making art to improve and enhance physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing. Artistic self-expression has been shown to help people resolve conflicts and problem solve, develop interpersonal skills, manage behavior, reduce stress, increase self-esteem and self-awareness, and achieve insight into their current situation. Our board-certified art therapists offer opportunities for patients to use a range of art materials. Art therapy is about the process, not the product; therefore, no degree of artistic skill is needed to participate. Internship Program NYU Langone also offers internships to students in clinical degree programs in therapeutic recreation, music therapy, art therapy, and child life. NYU Langone Health is a national leader in quality and innovation, tracking more than 800 metrics to assess the ongoing performance of our healthcare providers and programs. The evaluation of these measures, which include infection rates, surgical outcomes, and patient satisfaction scores, is among the most extensive in the nation and provides us with the data needed to improve patient care and achieve the best outcomes. As a result, NYU Langone consistently earns top rankings in quality and safety across our expansive network of inpatient and outpatient locations. What Does Quality Really Mean? At NYU Langone, our mortality rates are among the lowest in the nation, which is an important measure of quality care. Take our patients who’ve experienced a heart attack, for example. NYU Langone’s 30-day mortality rate for these patients across all hospitals in the system is an impressive 7.7 percent, significantly lower than the national benchmark of 13.7 percent. We have the lowest heart attack death rate in the country. This outstanding outcome is a direct result of the advanced, team-based care NYU Langone provides. We continue to expand and enhance our clinical programs, particularly in interventional cardiology, advanced heart failure, and critical care. Whether our patients need a plan to prevent heart disease , a procedure to open a blocked artery or repair a valve, or even a new heart, our specialists work together to provide the best cardiac care possible. Source: 2024 Vizient Quality and Accountability Ranking. Ranked #1 out of 115 participating comprehensive academic medical centers, with lowest O:E mortality rate. About NYU Langone Heart Our Heart Attack Specialists Our Heart Disease Prevention Program Our Approach to Treating Heart Attack How We Help More Patients Beat Heart Attack Our Quality Rankings for Mortality and More Transgender Health To request an appointment, please call one of our doctors. Leader in Healthcare Equality The Human Rights Campaign Foundation has recognized NYU Langone for excellence in patient-centered LGBTQ+ care. Surgical Expertise Our multidisciplinary surgical team performs more than 800 gender-affirming surgeries per year. High-Quality Patient Care NYU Langone has been recognized by Vizient, Inc., and The Joint Commission as a leader in overall patient safety and quality care. At NYU Langone, we provide transgender and nonbinary adults and adolescents with compassionate care that addresses each individual’s specific needs. Our diverse team includes doctors, nurses, and social workers who follow the provided by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). Comprehensive Gender-Affirming Care Our team provides surgical care, fertility preservation, hormone therapy, and rehabilitation care. Our surgery team performs more than 800 surgeries a year and includes plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists. We perform a range of gender-affirming procedures , including the following: facial gender-affirming surgery, including facial feminization surgery and facial masculinization surgery surgery to remove breasts, known as top surgery or mastectomy surgery to add breasts, known as breast augmentation vaginoplasty to create a vagina phalloplasty and metoidioplasty to create a penis hysterectomy to remove the uterus and oophorectomy to remove the ovaries orchiectomy to remove testicles fertility preservation, including egg freezing or sperm freezing We are at the forefront of innovation and research in transgender surgery, conducting studies to improve patient outcomes and satisfaction. Hormone Therapy Our endocrinologists provide tailored gender-affirming hormone therapy. Testosterone, estrogen, and medications to block hormone production are used to meet the transition goals of the individual patient. Hormones are not a part of every transition, but for those who desire them, we offer a variety of methods including pills, injections, and long-acting implants. Rehabilitation Care have worked with hundreds of people during their recovery from gender-affirming surgery, using techniques which can help with scar management and mobility after surgery. This includes specialized pelvic floor physical therapy following vaginoplasty. We also help with scar management and mobility after mastectomy, chest masculinization, and phalloplasty. Transgender Health Support Services We provide support that is focused on improving your overall experience accessing care as a transgender or nonbinary person. Our nurse navigator can connect you to healthcare providers who are sensitive and affirming. Our social worker helps you prepare for gender-affirming surgery, making sure you have support during recovery and access to services that support you after surgery. We offer surgery education classes led by staff who are directly involved in your care, including during the hospital stay, surgical procedures, and recovery. During this class, you have the opportunity to hear from people who have been through surgery share their experiences of recovery and life after surgery. For 10 consecutive years, NYU Langone has been designated an LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Learn About Our Healthcare Equality Index Score provides helpful input and guidance on our transgender health services. They are supported by transgender and nonbinary professional staff . We also participate in the national and international community of surgeon–scientists, participating in research collaboratives such as TransArc and devising care guidelines and training standards. Transgender Care for Adolescents For adolescents, we provide medical care, hormone therapy, and mental health services , including pubertal suppression and psychological counseling for the entire family. Our team includes plastic surgeons, urologists, gynecologists, reproductive endocrinologists, and experts in adolescent medicine, child psychiatry, endocrinology, and gender and health education. Please contact each doctor directly for an appointment. Rachel Bluebond-Langner Oriana D. Cohen Michele B. Glodowski Jason A. Klein Bobby B. Najari Eduardo D. Rodriguez MD, DDS Lee C. Zhao Genitourinary Reconstructive Surgeon Related Programs and Services Transgender Surgery Services Our plastic surgeons, urologists, and gynecologists provide gender-affirming surgical care. Learn More About Our Transgender Surgery Services We provide medical care and mental health services for adolescents who are transgender and their families. Learn More About the Transgender Youth Health Program Our physical therapists help people prepare for and recover from gender-affirming surgery. Our Guest Services team provides information on local hotels, directions, or services available at NYU Langone. Learn More About Guest Services We provide members of the LGBTQ+ community with healthcare that is respectful of their individual needs. Learn More About LGBTQ+ Services Crain’s Honors NYU Langone Nurses as Notable LGBTQ+ Leaders Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health We have doctors located throughout New York City. Care for Adults with Type 1 Diabetes Care for Adults with Type 2 Diabetes At NYU Langone’s Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, our team is dedicated to helping people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes manage their condition and avoid complications that can affect their health. Our collaborative approach to diabetes care is what sets us apart. Your care team is led by an endocrinologist who works closely with diabetes educators, nutritionists, nurses, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants to develop a treatment plan focused on getting your diabetes under control. Our team then provides the education and support you need to achieve that goal. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for diabetes and endocrinology. Learn more about our approach to care for adults with type 1 diabetes , including information on physicians who treat these conditions. Preventing and Managing Complications Our goal is twofold: to prevent diabetes complications from occurring, and expertly treat those complications if they occur. Since uncontrolled cholesterol dramatically increase the risk of advanced diabetes complications,