Hospital—Long Island Makes It Possible Military Family Center Programs & Services The healthcare professionals at the NYU Langone Military Family Center provide free and confidential services for veterans and families in many specialty areas, including the following: post-traumatic stress traumatic brain injury alcohol and substance use disorder grief and loss relationship and family conflict military sexual trauma readjustment issues parenting concerns children’s behavioral or academic problems In addition to our general clinical program, we offer the following specialty programs: Online Doctor Visits As part of our Telemental Health Program, our doctors provide online mental healthcare to veterans and their families in New York and Connecticut who are unable to regularly commute to in-person therapy. Online doctor visits are accessed through the , a secure and confidential platform. The video visits take place in the privacy of your own home or wherever you feel most comfortable and can ensure confidentiality, allowing us to provide care and support that best meets your needs and those of your family. For more information, call Psychiatric Medication Management The Military Family Center provides evaluations and ongoing treatment with a psychiatrist for people experiencing a wide array of issues, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), trauma, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , insomnia, and problems with drugs or alcohol. Medications can be prescribed if needed, and follow-up appointments are scheduled regularly to ensure that the medicine is effective in easing your symptoms. Our team works to fine-tune treatment to achieve the best possible results. Dual Diagnosis Program Our Welcome Back Veterans Dual Diagnosis Program, made possible by the Robert R. McCormick Foundation and Major League Baseball, offers flexible, integrative care for veterans, service members, and their family members struggling with substance abuse disorder and co-occurring mental health problems. This includes those who want to completely stop use or to reduce the problems associated with substance use. Treatment with an addiction psychiatrist and psychologist for both medications and therapy can be provided. Traumatic Brain Injury Program Approximately 300,000 veterans sustained a traumatic brain injury (TBI) as a result of serving in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and 57 percent were not evaluated or treated for TBI. Our Traumatic Brain Injury Program, funded by the New York City Council, offers services to fill this gap in treatment. The program provides neuropsychological evaluations, which help to understand the relationship between brain and behavior. These evaluations offer in-depth assessment of memory, visual and verbal thinking, attention, problem solving, planning, and mood. The Traumatic Brain Injury Program also offers cognitive training to develop strategies to work around cognitive difficulties. Training consists of 10 weekly meetings for 1 to 2 hours with a neuropsychologist to learn problem solving, organizational strategies, and memory and attention techniques. The program also provides patients with the opportunity to learn how mood, sleep, and headaches can affect cognitive functioning, and strategies to work on these domains. The individualized treatment caters to the specific challenges and strengths of each veteran, guided by the neuropsychological assessment. Child and Family Program Military children face unique stressors related to relocation, parental separation, family reunification, and reintegration. These stressors may result in disrupted relationships, behavioral problems, and academic difficulties. Many children struggle to adjust to their parent’s combat injury, whether visible or invisible, or deal with a parent’s death. The Child and Family Program provides individual child therapy, parent–child therapy, family therapy, social skills groups for children, and parenting support workshops. Expressive arts, games, and play are central components used to address and process concerns that impact the whole family. These services are offered to veterans and current service members and their families, as well as families of the fallen. Couples Therapy The Military Family Center provides support to couples experiencing relational difficulties, including conflict, a sense of disconnection, and problems with communication. Although the majority of military families are strong and resilient, stress related to military service may affect intimate relationships, at times leading to problems such as domestic violence and divorce. Using emotionally focused couples therapy, our clinicians are here to help couples restore a sense of connection, safety, and intimacy between the partners. Couples do not have to be legally married to qualify for services. ADHD Assessments We provide attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) assessments and treatment for veterans and their families. ADHD in adults affects approximately 5 percent of our nation’s veterans. It can interfere with your ability to reach your goals in academics, your job, and even your family life. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Leadership & Board of Trustees An experienced group of administrators, clinicians, and community representatives provides leadership and oversight for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Executive Leadership Larry K. McReynolds , Executive Director Isaac P. Dapkins, MD , Chief Medical Officer Eric Doescher, Vice President for Administration and Network Integration Astrid P. Gonzalez, Vice President, Finance Kathy Hopkins, Vice President, Department of Community Programs Margaret Mason, DMD, Vice President of Dental Medicine Board of Trustees Chang Xie, Chair Lucy Sanabria, Vice Chair Anthony Santiago, Treasurer Cynthia Felix Jeffers, Secretary Members Karen Broughton Wai Yee Chan Thomas Early Brenda Grandell Gary E. Kalkut, MD, MPH Rabbi Robert Kaplan Shemala C. Lovell Angela Martinez Violeta Maya Rev. Lawrence V. Pitta Judge Christopher Robles Leslie Simonetti Rev. Samuel Fook Wong Richard Villar, Esq. The mailing address for the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is 5800 Third Avenue, Second Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11220. nbowman 2024-12-16T07:41:51+00:00 > Your Search for an Exceptional Career Starts Here We have a range of exciting career opportunities, all supported by our unwavering commitment to helping all our faculty and staff reach their full potential. Job Search Filters Use the filters below to refine your job search. View the table below the map for a complete list of results. A selection of relevant jobs across our locations will appear in the map. Enter Keywords or MOS Code to  Search for a Job Career Specialties Position Type Facility Clear all filters Apply Filters 0 Live Results Job Title Job ID Shift Preparing for Your Visit to the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offer social services, as well as medical, behavioral health, dental, and rehabilitation care. The following tips may be helpful as you plan for your visit with us. How do I schedule an appointment? To schedule an appointment at any of our Family Health Centers locations, please call . When you call, please be ready to provide the full name of the person you are making the appointment for, his or her date of birth, phone number, health insurance information, and the reason for your appointment request. You may receive a reminder phone call two days in advance of your appointment. If you are unable to keep your appointment, please call as soon as possible to reschedule. What should I bring to my appointment? For your first appointment at any of our Family Health Centers, please bring copies of your medical records, if you have them. Always bring any medications you are currently taking, your insurance card, and any referral or precertification information. If you are a new patient, please plan to arrive 30 minutes in advance of your appointment to fill out necessary paperwork. All other patients are asked to please arrive 15 minutes early. Which insurance plans and forms of payment do you accept? The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide financial assistance to patients who cannot pay for their medical care. We have an established sliding scale discount program that assures that patients have access to all the services we offer (health center’s scope of service), regardless of their ability to pay. We accept Medicare, Medicaid, and other major insurances. Patients without insurance or whose insurance is limited can apply for the sliding scale fee program. Please note that applying for and/or being turned down for insurance is not a prerequisite for a sliding scale fee or other discount. Please let a Family Health Center staff member know if you have any questions or wish to apply for the sliding scale discount program. We are here to assist you. Please bring proof of income and family size, and one of our appointment coordinators can review your payment options and the programs you may qualify for. Co-pays and other charges may be paid with cash, personal check, money orders, or major credit cards. If you have a billing question, please call How can I access my medical information and test results? You may use to view your lab and test results, access medical records, request prescription refills, send a secure message to your doctor’s office, or pay a bill. MyChart at NYU Langone Health can be accessed by computer or through a mobile app. Women's Health—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Women’s health services, gynecological care, and obstetric care are provided by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Our main location for care specific to women’s health is . Services are also available at: testing and prenatal care. Your first doctor’s visit when you are pregnant starts with a sonogram, a painless test that allows the doctor to see your baby and make sure that he or she is developing normally. We also talk with you about things you can do to have a healthy pregnancy, such as eating right, drinking enough water, making healthy choices when it comes to sex, and seeing a . Some women experience or other mental health issues during or after pregnancy, and we can refer you to our During your pregnancy, you can choose to participate in our shared medical appointment program. These sessions combine your own doctor’s appointment with childbirth and breastfeeding classes, a tour of labor and delivery at , and a meeting with our pediatricians. You can also meet other soon-to-be mothers, and talk about things you have in common. Our nurses are available to answer any questions you have about pregnancy and childbirth. We perform all medical testing on site, including blood tests. If your doctor thinks you need extra care during your pregnancy, or if you or your baby have been diagnosed with a medical condition, we have doctors who are experts in helping you have as healthy a pregnancy as possible. Gynecological and Women’s Health Services Our OB/GYN physicians provide annual women’s health checkups. This includes testing for sexually transmitted diseases such as , Pap smears to check for human papillomavirus , and screenings for and other cancers. Birth control, including intrauterine device (IUD) placement, is also available. If you have , or any other women’s health issue, our doctors can help. If you have been diagnosed with , our breast cancer surgeon is available to provide treatment. Our insurance representatives can help you apply for Medicaid and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), if you qualify. We also have a sliding-scale payment system that is based on your income. For women who need help with issues related to domestic violence, immigration, or housing, we provide consultation with a lawyer from Her Justice legal services. This program is coordinated by Community-Based Programs—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The School Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides medical, mental health, dental, and vision services, along with health education, directly to children and adolescents through clinics located in public elementary, middle, and high schools throughout New York City. We care for children when they are sick, but also provide the preventive medical care to keep them healthy. Parental Consent Forms For a child to receive care through the School Health Program, parents are required to complete consent forms. View Our Parental Consent Forms By operating clinics inside schools, we help ensure that healthcare is accessible and convenient for children and families. A healthy child misses fewer days of school, which makes it easier to keep up with schoolwork and succeed academically. Also, when a child is healthy, his or her parents miss fewer days of work. School-based clinics are staffed by at least one nurse practitioner who can write prescriptions, order diagnostic tests for illnesses such as strep throat, and help manage chronic conditions including . The health team includes physician assistants, nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, health educators, medical associates, and patient services associates. Our dentistry program is staffed by a dentist and dental hygienist. Although insurance is billed for visits when appropriate, visits to the school-based health center lead to no out-of-pocket costs to families. Full-Service Healthcare for Children Care received through the School Health Program does not replace a child’s regular pediatrician or dentist visits. But the clinics can supplement care when necessary, or provide it if a child does not have a regular doctor or dentist. Preventive care includes immunizations, annual well visits, and back-to-school and sports physicals. The medical team is also available to treat illnesses; administer first aid; provide referral to specialists as needed; and conduct dental, vision, and hearing screenings. At our high school locations, teenagers receive sexual health education, access to contraception, and testing for and sexually transmitted diseases such as Our dental staff performs cleanings, treats cavities, and provides preventive care such as fluoride treatment. Our behavioral health clinicians conduct screenings and psychosocial assessments for students referred for treatment. They provide specific interventions to ensure that students’ social and emotional needs are addressed. There is also access to off-site psychiatric services and referrals to various social services agencies in the community. All services are available to students enrolled at the participating school. Appointments are scheduled during the school day. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care , with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. For more information, please contact the individual school. When schools are closed, services are available at all locations. A parental consent form is required for all children receiving medical care or dental care, with the exception of adolescents receiving sexual health services. We also require a parental consent form for eligible children and adolescents to receive COVID-19 vaccination. You can fill out and submit the following online forms: Parental Consent Form for Medical Services Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Chinese (中文) Parental Consent Form for Medical Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for Behavioral Health Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services Parental Consent Form for Dental Services in Spanish (Español) Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination Parental Consent Form for COVID-19 Vaccination in Spanish (Español) Our Program Locations The School Health Program provides medical, behavioral, vision, and dental care through many New York City public schools in the Bronx Contact our School Health Program Hotline at 347-377-3170 and choose the option for medical, behavioral health, or dental services. PS 179/369, 468 East 140th Street: dental services Abraham Lincoln High School, 2800 Ocean Parkway: behavioral health and medical care Boys and Girls High School, 1700 Fulton Street: behavioral health Dewey MS 136, 4004 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care Ditmas JHS 62, 700 Cortelyou Road: dental services Erasmus Hall Educational Campus, 911 Flatbush Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Frank J. Macchiarola Education Complex, 3000 Avenue X, Room 105: behavioral health and medical care George Wingate Educational Campus, 600 Kingston Avenue: behavioral health and medical care IS 291K Roland Hayes, 231 Palmetto Street: dental services Juan Morel Campos Campus, 215 Heyward Street: behavioral health and medical care MS 61, 400 Empire Boulevard: dental services MS 88, 544 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health and dental services MS 898, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services Pershing JHS 220, 4812 Ninth Avenue: dental services and medical care PS 1, 309 47th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 10, 511 Seventh Avenue: behavioral health PS 12/MS 484, 430 Howard Avenue: dental services PS 15, 71 Sullivan Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 24, 427 38th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS 25, 787 Lafayette Avenue: dental services PS 40 The George Washington Carver School, 265 Ralph Avenue: dental services PS 90, 2840 West 12th Street: dental services PS 91, 532 Albany Avenue: dental services PS 92, 601 Parkside Avenue: dental services PS 94, 5010 Sixth Avenue: medical care PS 105, 1031 59th Street: dental services PS 135, 684 Linden Boulevard: dental services PS 169, 4305 Seventh Avenue: dental services PS 172, 825 Fourth Avenue: behavioral health and medical care PS 188, 3314 Neptune Avenue: dental services, behavioral health, vision, and medical care PS 194, 3117 Avenue W: dental services PS 196/MS 582, 207 Bushwick Avenue: dental services PS 217, 1100 Newkirk Avenue: dental services PS 243, 1580 Dean Street: dental services PS 257, 60 Cook Street: dental services PS 282, 180 Sixth Avenue: behavioral health and dental services PS 288, 2950 West 25th Street: dental services PS 307, 209 York Street: behavioral health and dental services PS 329/PS 771, 2929 West 30th Street: dental services PS 335, 130 Rochester Avenue: dental services PS 503/506, 330 60th Street: behavioral health, dental services, and medical care PS/IS 157, 850 Kent Avenue: dental services PS 939/MS 936, 270 59th Street: dental services South Shore Educational Complex, 6565 Flatlands Avenue: behavioral health and medical care Sunset Park High School, 153 35th Street: behavioral health and medical care PS 2, 122 Henry Street: dental services PS 28, 475 West 155th Street: dental services PS 38, 232 East 103 Street: dental services PS 124, 40 Division Street: dental services PS 153 and PS 368, 1750 Amsterdam Avenue: dental services PS 171, 19 East 103rd Street: dental services Goldie Maple Academy (PS 333) and Q256 at PS 333, 365 Beach 56th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 14, 107-01 Otis Avenue: dental services PS 19Q Marino P. Jeantet School, 40-10 99th Street, Corona: dental services PS/MS 43Q and P256Q at PS 43, 160 Beach 29th Street, Far Rockaway: dental services Village Academy (MS 319), 10-45 Nameoke Street, Far Rockaway: dental services PS 18, 221 Broadway: dental services PS 31, 55 Layton Avenue: dental services PS 44, 80 Maple Parkway: dental services Rehabilitation Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Rehabilitation therapy to help adults and children recover after an illness or injury is available through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. Physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech–language pathologists, and audiologists are available at the following Rusk Rehabilitation locations: Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at Shore Road Rusk Rehabilitation Brooklyn at 60th Street Pediatric Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Pediatricians at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide expert care to children at our center locations as well as within numerous schools throughout New York City. Our experts in pediatrics and adolescent medicine treat children of all ages, from newborns to teenagers and young adults. We provide checkups, immunizations, and health screenings. mental healthcare are also provided. Gynecological and sexual healthcare are available for adolescents and young adults. Specialized care is also available in the following areas: pediatric cardiology, to treat conditions that affect the heart, including pediatric endocrinology, to treat , hormonal disorders, and conditions that affect the thyroid pediatric gastroenterology, to treat conditions that affect digestion and the liver, including celiac disease pediatric nephrology, to treat kidney or urinary tract conditions, including urinary tract infection pediatric neurology, to treat conditions that affect the brain, including pediatric pulmonology, to treat airway, breathing, and lung conditions, including is our primary location for pediatric care. We also care for children at the following Family Health Centers locations: Family Physician Family Health Center Flatbush Family Health Center Park Ridge Family Health Center Park Slope Family Health Center Seventh Avenue Family Health Center Sunset Terrace Family Health Center Care is also available for children through our , which provides medical, dental, and mental healthcare to children in select schools in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island, and the Bronx. Family Strengthening Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Family Strengthening Services, part of , provide the resources people need to achieve health, family stability, and economic self-sufficiency. Programs and services are listed below: Family Support Services Family Support Services provide supportive counseling and case management services. We help people apply for public benefits, address immediate needs such as food insecurity and provide referrals to educational, health, legal, housing, and supportive programs best suited to our clients’ needs. Family support counselors speak multiple languages and are available for walk-in appointments. For more information, please call 718-630-7186 Nutrition Support USDA Nondiscrimination Statement Learn what to do if your application for benefits has been turned down, including how to request a hearing, file a complaint, and more. Read the Statement Our Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program provides nutrition education, supplemental foods, healthcare referrals, and breastfeeding support to pregnant women, infants, and children up to 5 years of age. For more information, please call 718-630-7161 Greenlight offers parent education workshops on healthy eating behaviors for children starting at age two months.  For more information, please call 718-210-1030 The Family Health Centers is also home to a client-choice food pantry, The Table, which provides emergency food to thousands of people each month. The strategic location of emergency food service at the FHC enables participants to be connected to a continuum of wrap-around services, including access to SNAP food stamps and other benefits that will ensure long-term food security and support the health, stability, and self-sufficiency of the entire family. For more information, please call 347-377-4091 Older Adult Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our extensive continuum of Services for Older Adults, part of , is here to help support our aging neighbors and their caregivers in the Sunset Park and Bay Ridge neighborhoods.  These services are a part of the Family Health Centers’ commitment to helping community members stay socially connected, healthy, and active as they age in place. Older Adult Centers We operate two Older Adult Centers (also known as Senior Centers) available to anyone in New York City over the age of 60, providing daily recreational, educational, and health promotion activities as well as a hot and nutritious lunch. Supportive counseling, case assistance, yoga instruction, computer classes, field trips, arts and crafts, and a variety of other activities are offered each month. Please call the Centers directly for more information: Shore Hill Older Adult Center at 9000 Shore Road – 718-630-7588 Sunset Park Older Adult Center at 4520 4th Avenue – 718-210-1050 Social Adult Day Services and Caregiver Support Located in Bay Ridge, our Seniors in Touch social adult day program provides social, recreational, and therapeutic activities to older adults living with cognitive or physical impairments. VIDEO: The Seniors in Touch social adult day program in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, provides a safe space for older adults with cognitive or physical impairments. Our program enhances the overall quality of life, wellbeing, and daily functioning of our participants, while providing peace of mind for their caregivers.  Door-to-door, wheelchair-accessible transportation is available for program participants. Caregiver Support services are offered to caregivers of elderly and frail adults in the community. Monthly support groups, care consultation, and educational workshops are offered. Please call the program at 347-377-5471 , for more details about social adult day and caregiver resources. Community Development Programs at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our community development programs, part of , provide people with the skills they need to effect change in their own lives and in the neighborhoods where they live. This is done through the following programs: Adult Education and Workforce Development The Community Empowerment Program provides English language instruction, high school equivalency, and basic education classes. The program also offers job trainings focused on the health care and early childhood sectors, career counseling, and other workforce readiness supports. For more information about English language instruction, please call 718-630-7150 . For more information about GED prep classes, please call 718-768-0778 Community Engagement and Volunteerism We work with the AmeriCorps National Service program to help place community service volunteers in stipend-paid, full-time, full-year service opportunities. Volunteers work at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations, as well as other partnering agencies. For more information, please call 718-630-7164 .  To apply, please visit: Education and School Readiness Corps CHCANYS Public Health Corps at NYU Langone Food Security Corps Youth & Adolescent Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Through Project Reach Youth, part of , we provide teenagers and young adults with the support they need to be healthy and safe, reach educational and career goals, develop new skills, and prepare for adulthood. GED High School Equivalency Prep Program The Basic Education, Adult Literacy, and GED High School Equivalency Preparation Program provides education, guidance, and support for people age 17 and a half and older who have not completed high school. Classes, tutoring, counseling, and workshops help participants successfully complete the GED exam and prepare for college and a career. For more information on adult education programs, please call Project SAFE Program Project SAFE prevents unintended pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS through evidence-based interventions within a youth development framework, building upon the existing strengths of young people. The program provides youth ages 10 to 19 with support to avoid risky behaviors, develop to their full potential, and become agents of change in their communities. The program model includes evidence-based sexual health workshops, peer-led health education groups and community events, and sexual health services designed to meet the unique needs of adolescents. For more information on the The Project SAFE Teen Health Center, based at the , serves youth between the ages of 13 and 20. Birth control, emergency contraception, gynecological exams, and testing for pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease, and HIV are provided. Health education and counseling are also available. For more information on the Project SAFE Teen Health Center, please call 347-880-8042 Project TRACK Project TRACK is an afterschool program that provides high school students with the resources and opportunities they need to successfully complete high school and transition into college and career. Services include case management, college advisement, college trips, homework help, tutoring, community service opportunities, and enrichment activities including cooking, the arts, and sports. For more information, please call 718-832-4281 Unique Hearts. Same High Standard of Care. We have the nation’s highest rating for cardiac surgery. Digital Health Everywhere Our digital health platforms are revolutionizing the way patients receive care. Meet Karen: Breast Cancer Survivor When her metastatic breast cancer returned, Karen Petersen knew that a clinical trial was her last hope. Dr. Catherine Manno, Chair of Pediatrics Dr. Catherine S. Manno, chair of the Department of Pediatrics, discusses her father’s impact on her career. The Better Health System Dr. Catherine Manno Explore Our Campaigns Adult Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Primary care doctors at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide the treatment you need when you’re not feeling well, and the preventive care that can help keep you healthy. Annual checkups, immunizations, back-to-work physicals, and health screenings are provided by our doctors and nurse practitioners, who serve as your family doctors and are board-certified in internal medicine. We also care for you when you need treatment for an illness such as a cold, flu, or stomach virus. If you need specialized medical care, it is available from our specialists at NYU Langone. They provide care in the following areas: , for heart-related conditions dermatology , for skin-related conditions endocrinology and conditions that affect the thyroid , for conditions that affect digestion gerontology, which is specialized care for older adults hematology and hematology-oncology for blood-related disorders and cancers hepatology , to care for conditions that affect the liver infectious disease care , including testing, treatment, and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) nephrology, to care for kidney-related conditions , for medical conditions and injuries that affect the brain, including , for conditions that affect vision and the eye , to treat conditions that affect the eyes, ear, and nose physiatry, or physical medicine, to help you recover from injury podiatry, to treat conditions that affect the foot pulmonology to treat conditions that affect the lungs and breathing, including , to treat arthritis and other conditions that affect the joints, muscles, and bones urology, to treat conditions such as incontinence and others that affect the male reproductive system We also have experts in the following surgical specialties: for weight loss breast surgery to treat orofacial surgery trauma surgery vascular surgery Nutrition counseling, osteopathic manipulation, pain management, testing for sexually transmitted diseases, substance use disorder treatment, and are also available through our Family Health Center locations. Bilingual care from doctors and nurses who speak Arabic, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Haitian Creole, French, or Russian, is available at designated sites. Adult medicine care is available at the following Family Health Center locations: Conditions We Treat Through Virtual Urgent Care Whether its flu-like symptoms , everyday aches, or another common, non-emergency condition, our providers treat adults and children ages 5 and older. Conditions Our Providers Can Treat Virtual Urgent Care is a convenient option for many everyday health concerns. Below are some of the common conditions we treat. mild fever runny nose sinus pain viral illnesses, including common cold, , respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and COVID-19 Aches and Pains foot and leg pain gout rashes sprains or strains Stomach and Digestive Issues diarrhea and vomiting motion sickness symptoms General Infections cold sores sexually transmitted infections Protection Against HIV Infection pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP ), a medication taken daily to protect against for people who do not have HIV but are at high risk of contracting the infection. We also provide post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) after a possible exposure to body fluid. Conditions Not Treated at Virtual Urgent Care Medical emergencies—including chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others—require immediate care. Please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. You can also visit one of our emergency care locations Urgent Care Visits For conditions not treated at Virtual Urgent Care, schedule an in-person urgent care visit. Learn More About Urgent Care Other serious conditions require an in-person evaluation and therefore cannot be treated through Virtual Urgent Care. Some examples are listed below. Care for these conditions is available through an in-person visit. Acute Injury broken or fractured bones deep or large cuts or lacerations Behavioral or Mental Health Concerns drug overdose mental status changes psychiatric disorders Bleeding Issues blood in the stool coughing up blood unexplained vaginal bleeding and hemorrhage vomiting blood Cardiac and Respiratory Symptoms chest pain or palpitations shortness of breath Chronic Conditions and Symptoms cancer treatment complications sickle cell disease symptoms chronic pain syndrome Conditions That Require a Physical Exam ear pain genital and rectal complaints Neurologic Symptoms acute vision changes severe headache stroke-like symptoms , such as sudden-onset weakness, numbness, or tingling Severe Pain abdominal pain chronic pain ear pain or infection Women’s Health and Men’s Health complications breast complaints genital complaints If you or your child requires an in-person doctor’s visit, we can help you and schedule an appointment. Follow-up care for children is provided through Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone The Behavioral Health Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides treatment and support for people and families who are experiencing mental health disorders across all age ranges. We also provide care to patients in their preferred language, both in person and virtually. Our care providers are committed to inclusivity and respect the needs of the diverse population we serve, which includes the LGBTQ+ community If you or a loved one need urgent mental healthcare, services are available at the . Intensive therapy and care are also available through our inpatient psychiatric unit at is the primary location for mental healthcare services at the Family Health Centers. Integrated and Collaborative Care This type of short-term care is provided in your primary care office and with the collaboration of your primary care providers. To use this service, you must be referred by your primary care provider. Licensed social workers provide collaborative behavioral healthcare at the following locations: Community Medicine Behavioral Health Program Licensed social workers, psychiatrists, and psychiatric nurse practitioners provide mental health services at homeless shelters through the , we offer behavioral health and psychiatric treatment for students in over 20 public schools in Brooklyn, Queens, and Manhattan through our School Health Program. Mental health services are provided by licensed social workers at schools served by the program, and if medication intervention is indicated, students are referred to a psychiatrist or psychiatric nurse practitioner. Behavioral Health Services at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, our team of physicians, psychiatric nurse practitioners, social workers, psychologists, and mental health counselors helps restore, maintain, and enhance the wellbeing of adults, adolescents, and children who have mental health disorders. Parental Consent for Behavioral Health Care For a child to receive medical care through the Behavioral Health Program, parents are required to complete a consent form. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Minors Serving as the hub for outpatient behavioral health services, this clinic offers specialized outpatient care for children as young as 5 years old, adolescents, and adults, including older adults. The clinic offers specialized programs specialized programs in trauma-informed dyadic treatment, early psychosis, substance use disorders, and crisis recovery. Adult Behavioral Health Consent Form Adults are required to complete a consent form before receiving behavioral health services. Behavioral Health Consent Form for Adults For information about eligibility for services, please call 718-437-5210 Care is provided for people experiencing , mood and , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in , insomnia, and and psychotic disorders, as well as other mental health conditions. Substance Use Treatment At Sunset Terrace Family Health Center, we provide therapy for people who have been diagnosed with a mental health condition and are also coping with substance use issues such as opioid addiction and alcoholism. Medical treatment for substance use disorder is available through our adult medicine primary care program Specialized Mental Health Programs Specialized mental health programs are also available at Sunset Terrace Family Health Center for patients with chronic suicidality, serious mental illness, and first-break psychosis. Clinical Education Programs The Sunset Terrace Family Health Center hosts many trainees, from undergraduates through postdoctorates, and many of them go on to pursue careers in public and community mental health. We are also home to core training programs in psychiatry and psychology. Find out more about our psychology externship training program, for students enrolled in a clinical, counseling, or school psychology doctoral program, and our psychology internship. We also host a psychiatry residency program Group Sessions Our clinic offers many groups, both in person and virtual, with topics that include wellness, resilience, and health. Learn more. Early Childhood Services at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Our Early Childhood Services, part of , help prepare children for school and support parents and caregivers in building stable and caring relationships with their children. Our services include the following programs: Early Childhood Centers We operate four full-day, year-round early childhood centers for children. Our teachers and caregivers create supportive, stimulating, and enriching environments. Locations include: Magical Years Early Childhood Center: 220 60th Street, Brooklyn NY, 11220; 718-439-0450 Seventh Avenue Preschool: 4419 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11220; 347-377-5160 Warren Street Center for Children and Families: 343 Warren Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11201; 718-237-9578 14th Street Preschool: 199 14th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11215; 347-377-5026 We also spearhead the Sunset Park Early Learning Network, which aims to expand the capacity of early childhood services in the community and improve the quality of services to ensure that all children enter kindergarten ready to learn. The ELN offers group professional development, on-site coaching and child development associate credentialing for day care centers, family childcare providers, and home visitors as well as family, friend, and neighbor caregivers. For more information, please call 917-921-9622 We also operate the Family Child Care Network (FCCN), providing subsidized childcare slots as well as additional resources to enhance the learning environment of family child care from birth until age 3. The FCCN works together with providers and families to provide the highest quality care for our communities’ children. For more information, please call Family Literacy Our family literacy programs support parents in their role as their child’s first teacher. The Reach Out and Read early literacy program encourages parents to read aloud to their children. These language-rich interactions help stimulate brain development in young children. Sunset Park ParentChild+ is an early literacy, school readiness, and parenting program that encourages parents to talk, read, and play with their young children to support school readiness. A companion program, ParentChild+ Family Child Care, supports home-based childcare providers in their role of helping young children prepare for school. VROOM provides tips for caregivers of young children on everyday activities that support child development. Caregivers can receive VROOM tips via direct texts and the free VROOM app. For more information on Family Literacy programs, please call 347-377-4185 Parenting Supports The Healthy Families Program is a home visiting program for pregnant women and new parents that supports positive parent–child bonding and relationships. Programming promotes child and family health, development, and safety. It also helps build early literacy and school readiness skills for children. For more information, please call 347-377-5093 347-573-1574 HealthySteps is a pediatric primary care program that promotes the health, wellbeing, and school readiness of babies and toddlers. The HealthySteps Specialist, a child development expert, addresses common and complex concerns, such as feeding, behavior, sleep, attachment, maternal depression, access to social supports beyond healthcare, and adapting to life with a baby or young child. For more information, please call 646-735-1213 The Video Interaction Project (VIP) provides parenting support sessions that occur during pediatric well-child visits for babies 0-3 years. VIP offers books, toys, video-recordings, and expert advice to help children learn and grow. For more information, please call 718-630-7171 Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Community-Based Programs provide social, educational, and emotional support for families, children, and older adults. From nutrition programs for women who are to adult day care programs for older adults, our Community-Based Programs aim to meet the needs of the entire family.  Services are available in multiple languages. Our main location is the Family Support Center at 6025 Sixth Avenue in Brooklyn. Services and programs are also available at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone locations and other sites throughout Brooklyn. We focus on five areas of service: youth and adolescent services community development For more information on any services provided through our Community-Based Programs, please call NYU Langone Financial Reports NYU Langone releases quarterly financial reports. Our latest disclosure, available below, covers the 12 months that ended August 31, 2024, and encompasses the full scope of the enterprise, including our two medical schools, more than 300 outpatient locations, NYU Langone Hospitals, and Long Island Community Hospital, which remains a separate corporation until its anticipated merger in the spring of 2025. This updated report also accounts for our dedication to biomedical research and the expansion of life sciences in New York. NYU Langone’s culture of exceptionalism—which translates to safe and quality care for patients in their local communities—continues to drive volume, leading to a consistent sustainable growth rate and operational success. In the 12 months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone recorded an operating margin of 3.0 percent as operating revenues grew to $14.2 billion, marking a significant 14.2 percent increase from the prior year. 2024 Fiscal Year Annual Report Dates: August 31, 2023, to August 31, 2024 Released: November 18, 2024 Government & Community Affairs at NYU Langone Health At NYU Langone Health, we are on the front lines in creating a healthier New York. Our physicians, researchers, and staff are committed to bringing the highest-quality healthcare and services to communities across the New York metropolitan area. We engage with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities our patients reside in. We collaborate with local organizations through partnerships to provide services, programs, and events to the community at large. Government Affairs NYU Langone’s Office of Government and Community Affairs serves as a primary liaison between government and elected officials at the city, state, and federal level. The office closely monitors and analyzes important legislation, regulations, and budget proposals and advocates on issues as they affect NYU Langone. We manage relationships with government officials in New York City; Albany, NY; and Washington, DC, and also secure available government funds for various programs and projects. We coordinate visits to NYU Langone facilities for government officials to meet with our leadership and tour areas of interest, and ensure compliance with lobbying laws at the city, state, and federal level. We also work with local elected officials and community leaders to address health issues of concern to the community, and maintain working relationships with local community boards. We focus on community outreach to share information and resources and to increase awareness of NYU Langone in neighborhoods throughout New York City. NYU Langone sponsors numerous events supporting local nonprofits, community-based organizations, neighborhood associations, and local community groups. Events range from sponsorship and coordination of health fairs to support for annual events and participation in cultural and ethnic celebrations. We are proud to support and partner with these organizations, which are the bedrock of the communities we serve. Other efforts in the community include coordinating and collaborating with internal departments to participate in community events such as health fairs, seminars and informational workshops lead by health experts, community family days, and more. Through the we partner with community-based organizations to provide a range of services to children and families in need. Our office also works with NYU Langone’s on community outreach efforts to increase awareness about the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines. NYU Langone Health in the Community Report Our NYU Langone Health in the Community report highlights our activities and contributions to benefit the communities we serve and showcases how we deliver care and community programs to support health across the New York metropolitan area and beyond. Departments throughout NYU Langone work to improve all aspects of community health, from annual screenings, chronic disease management, mental and behavioral healthcare, and vaccination, to social determinants of health, such as housing and food security. We’re proud to share stories of community programs offered for people of all ages, from early childhood to seniors. Read our Members of the Office of Government and Community Affairs team include the following: Joseph Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Staff 212-263-3474 Gilda Ventresca-Ecroyd Vice President, Government and Community Affairs 212-404-4077 Ashley Morrissey Senior Director, State Affairs 212-404-4086 Sara Ostolaza Manager, Community and City Affairs 347-453-9780 Patricia Barraga Senior Government Affairs Analyst 347-213-1182 Rebecca Berger 212-404-4082 James Toussaint Policy Analyst 212-404-4088 Jonathan Martinez Community Affairs Coordinator 929-453-0660 Elizabeth Roman Executive Assistant 212-404-4081 Myles Davis Advisor 917-881-5963 Chief Executive Officer and Dean Robert I. Grossman, MD, is chief executive officer of and dean of . Nationally recognized as a top healthcare executive, he leads one of the largest health systems in the Northeast—employing more than 52,000 people, including over 12,000 clinicians, stretching across 6 inpatient facilities and over 300 locations throughout the New York City region and in Florida. His visionary leadership has transformed NYU Langone into one of the best academic medical centers in the United States, as evaluated annually by independent organizations such as Vizient, Inc. the Leapfrog Group ( Best Hospitals Best Medical Schools ), and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Vizient recognized NYU Langone Health as No. 1 in the nation for quality and patient safety three years in a row. Innovation has been a hallmark of Dr. Grossman’s leadership of NYU Langone and NYU Grossman School of Medicine since his tenure began in 2007. This includes establishing an accelerated three-year MD pathway for select medical students—making NYU Grossman School of Medicine the first nationally ranked medical school to enable medical students to graduate in three years—and implementing full-tuition scholarships for medical students. For his achievements as dean, the school was named after him in 2019. Most recently, Dr. Grossman was the driving force behind the creation of NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine—a partnership between NYU and NYU Langone—the only medical school in the U.S. that offers a three-year MD degree focused on primary care and full-tuition scholarships. In July 2023, the school was renamed in honor of Dr. Grossman’s leadership. Each of these groundbreaking initiatives was fueled by Dr. Grossman’s collaborations with the Board of Trustees and institutional leadership to increase NYU Langone’s revenue from $2 billion in 2007 to more than $14.2 billion in 2024, including more than $5 billion in philanthropy since 2007. NYU Langone’s research awards from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have grown from $129 million to $820 million over the past 14 years. Dr. Grossman has been at the forefront of applying a data-driven approach to healthcare, with the aim of improving patient outcomes, streamlining clinical workflows, and enhancing medical decision-making. The institution uses a signature dashboard that tracks over 800 metrics, bringing transparency and accountability to everyone, so that providers can achieve better outcomes for patients and for the health system overall. NYU Langone operates with one playbook and one standard of care at every location. Early in his tenure, Dr. Grossman launched a decade-long Campus Transformation Plan, an infrastructure modernization program that has expanded NYU Langone’s footprint to more than 14 million square feet of clinical, educational, and research space across its campuses throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Among its capstone projects were the Science Building , NYU Langone’s largest research facility; , the only inpatient facility in New York City with exclusively private rooms; , the city’s first new children’s hospital in many years; and an Energy Building that meets 70 percent of the power needs of NYU Langone’s midtown campus. Under Dr. Grossman’s leadership, achieved the status of a Comprehensive Cancer Center from the National Cancer Institute, part of the NIH. He also propelled NYU Langone’s unprecedented growth into Brooklyn and Long Island, forging hospital affiliations that created , now two of the highest rated hospitals for quality and safety in the nation. Most recently, NYU Langone affiliated with Long Island Community Hospital, creating a clinically integrated healthcare network between the two organizations. In 2018, Dr. Grossman—together with Kenneth G. Langone, chairman of NYU Langone’s Board of Trustees—was named to Time magazine’s inaugural Health Care 50 list of the 50 most influential healthcare leaders who changed the state of healthcare in America. Dr. Grossman’s transformative leadership, including his steely piloting of the institution as it recovered from the devastation of Superstorm Sandy, was chronicled in William A. Haseltine’s book World Class: A Story of Adversity, Transformation, and Success at NYU Langone Health A prolific and highly respected scientist, Dean Grossman was awarded the Javits Neuroscience Investigator Award by the NIH in 1999 for his work on multiple sclerosis. He was a member (1995–2000) and chairman (1997–2000) of the Diagnostic Radiology Study Section at the NIH, was appointed to the NIH’s National Advisory Council for Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (2003–2007), and, in 2004, became the first recipient of the Outstanding Contributions in Research Award, given annually by the Foundation of the American Society of Neuroradiology in recognition of lifelong accomplishment and consistent excellence in clinical neuroscience. In 2010, Dean Grossman received the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine’s Gold Medal for his pioneering research in magnetic resonance in medicine and biology. In addition, he received the Lifetime Achievement of the Emeritus Class from Tulane University (2019), was named a Distinguished Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (2010), and was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Bordeaux, France (2010). Most recently, Dean Grossman received the American Society of Neuroradiology Gold Medal for his contributions to the field of neuroradiology (2021), was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences for excellence and leadership (2022), and received the Distinguished Alumni Award from Tulane University (2024). Dean Grossman is a passionate educator and widely published scholar. He has trained more than 100 fellows, many of whom occupy prominent positions worldwide, and has authored 340 publications and 5 books, including Neuroradiology: The Requisites Dean Grossman received his bachelor’s degree in biology from Tulane University and his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was elected to Alpha Omega Alpha. He completed his internship at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, two years of a neurosurgery residency at the University of Pennsylvania, a radiology residency at the University of Pennsylvania, and a two-year fellowship in neuroradiology at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Grossman is board-certified in radiology and neuroradiology. Dean Grossman joined NYU Langone in 2001 as the Louis Marx Professor of Radiology; chair of the Department of Radiology ; and professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and physiology and neuroscience. In his previous position at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, he was a professor of radiology, neurosurgery, and neurology; chief of neuroradiology; and associate chairman of radiology. Sitemap gayathri 2024-11-19T17:45:34+00:00 Faculty NYU Langone Health strives to provide increasingly high-quality care to the communities it serves. Undertaking projects to enhance its physical spaces and expand service offerings demonstrates NYU Langone’s commitment to ensure New Yorkers can get world-class healthcare close to home. In New York State, hospitals must submit Certificate of Need (CON) applications, and in certain instances a Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA), to gain approval for such projects. According to the New York State Department of Health , an HEIA aims to determine how a facility’s proposed project affects the accessibility and delivery of healthcare services. In addition, it seeks to demonstrate whether it will enhance health equity and contribute to mitigating health disparities in the project's service area for medically underserved groups. An independent entity conducts the HEIAs for NYU Langone’s proposed projects, which ensures objective assessments of the potential impacts. The HEIAs also incorporate input from patients and community-based organizations. Below are links to the HEIA documents and CONs filed with the New York State Department of Health. Consolidating Transplant Services at NYU Langone’s Manhattan Campus Transplant Consolidation HEIA Transplant Consolidation HEIA Data Tables Transplant Consolidation CON Relocating the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Congenital Heart Center CON Expanding the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Pediatric Intensive Care Unit HEIA Data Tables Pediatric Intensive Care Unit CON Relocating the Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center HEIA Data Tables Long Island Community Hospital Infusion Center CON Creating an Ambulatory Surgery Center for Orthopedic Services in Westchester County Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center HEIA Data Tables Westchester Ambulatory Surgery Center CON Relocating the Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic HEIA Data Tables Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic CON Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan In addition to providing the highest quality care for patients at our primary locations, we at NYU Langone Health aim to apply our scientific and clinical strengths to support the health needs of the broader community. Growing out of our Community Health Needs Assessment and aligning with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities, our three-year implementation plan, also known as our Community Service Plan, focuses on preventing chronic conditions by promoting healthy eating and food security, decreasing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, addressing the intersection of health and housing, supporting the self-management of chronic conditions, and connecting people to resources that address social and health risk factors. The Community Service Plan also promotes healthy women, infants, and children through parenting programs that connect families to needed resources, and through early childhood and teen pregnancy prevention programs. We also have an emerging portfolio of projects that focus on promoting a healthy and safe environment by reducing falls among vulnerable populations. Through the partnerships outlined in our Community Service Plan, we seek to create a platform for evidence-based health promotion and disease prevention at the neighborhood level, including the Lower East Side and Chinatown, in Manhattan; Sunset Park and Red Hook, in Brooklyn; and in Hempstead, Long Island. Our community-based and government partners span early childhood education settings and schools, as well as primary care, housing, and community settings, such as faith-based organizations, and local businesses. Read our complete Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment/Community Service Plan Read the previous Community Health Needs Assessment Read the Executive Summary in Simplified Chinese Traditional Chinese Read NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s previous Implementation Plan Read the supplemental report on the Community Health Needs and Assets in the Village of Hempstead Find quick reference data summaries for Hempstead Lower East Side and Chinatown Red Hook Sunset Park Read a summary of the Assessment of Needs and Priorities of the Brooklyn Arab American Community in At NYU Langone Health, ensuring a healthy environment is central to delivering on all three of our mission-critical areas: to serve, teach, and discover. Climate change is a global health issue, and our sustainability program was created to reduce our environmental impacts, promote health and resiliency through building design and better procurement, and advocate for climate leadership in healthcare. These four pillars are underscored by an effort to build a culture of sustainability within our organization, and to embed these priorities as a part of everyday operations and decision making. Our program includes dozens of initiatives across the NYU Langone Health led by our Real Estate Development and Facilities department, and is part of a collaborative effort among individuals and teams who are implementing best practices and working towards greener operations across the health system. From Building and Environmental Services staff to faculty, clinicians, and students, and from hospital operations to supply chain, finance, and construction—every NYU Langone Health member has a role to play in achieving our goals. Our Sustainability Commitments Climate change solutions must be rooted within our businesses and the communities we serve. It is crucial for us to work alongside industry and governmental agencies to accelerate climate progress and promote health equity. NYU Langone is committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050, with an interim goal of 50 percent greenhouse gas emissions reduction by 2030. Reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions offers benefits such as improving the quality of air in the communities we serve, increasing our resiliency, and making our buildings healthier and more comfortable for our patients and staff. This goal is part of our commitment with the U.S. Department of Human and Health Services’ Health Sector Pledge, where we’ve joined other leading health systems to strengthen national healthcare resilience to climate change. We are also a proud and longstanding participant in the New York City Carbon Challenge. Since 2005, we have achieved a 39 percent reduction in carbon emissions for our fully owned portfolio and major sites under the New York City Carbon Challenge framework. In 2019, we became the first and only New York City–based member of the Health Care Climate Council , a national leadership body of health systems committed to protect their patients and employees from the health impacts of climate change. This platform allows us to leverage our voice, alongside the other 21 health system participants, to drive innovative climate solutions as well as policy and market transformation. As part of the council, we also participate in the Health Care Climate Challenge We participate in Practice Greenhealth’s Healthier Hospitals: Safer Chemicals Challenge to reduce the use of chemicals in our furniture and cleaning product and to eliminate the use of mercury. Sustainability Awards and Recognition After Superstorm Sandy in 2012, NYU Langone began overhauling its infrastructure with an emphasis on resilience, energy efficiency, and green building design. Our hospital locations on the east side of Manhattan and their surrounding buildings are now the first in the world to receive the highest-level Platinum certification under both Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) under the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). In 2018, our east side Manhattan hospitals achieved PEER Platinum certification recognizing its power system efficiency and energy reliability. The following year, the both earned the highest Platinum level of USGBC’s LEED certification, an internationally recognized standard for innovative sustainable building design, construction, operations, and maintenance. We have earned more than 65 energy and environmental excellence awards for our sustainability achievements. In 2022, we received 11 environmental excellence awards from Practice Greenhealth and Healthcare without Harm, including the Top 25, Climate Resilience and Leadership, and Greening the OR Circle of Excellence awards. Annual Environmental Sustainability Report To help ensure transparency as we work towards these ambitious goals, we are pleased to share our annual environmental sustainability report. This report communicates more about our commitments, programs, and accomplishments to date and future plans across the four pillars of our sustainability program: reducing our impact, increasing resiliency, creating healthy environments, and advocating for a sustainable healthcare future. Read our 2024 Annual Sustainability Report Sustainability and Healthcare Database Health and environmental sustainability are fundamentally connected and are essential for the livelihood of our communities. NYU Langone and NYU researchers have recognized this connection and have led by example through academic studies on this topic. Our publicly available compiles publications on the intersection of public health, sustainability, pollution, and climate change. If you have questions or want to learn more about NYU Langone’s commitment to sustainability, please email us at sustainability@nyulangone.org The campus transformation project is dramatically reshaping NYU Langone Health through a combination of major new construction, renovation, and expansion. Under the leadership of our dean and CEO Dr. Robert I. Grossman Vicki Match Suna , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, this is the most sweeping revitalization in NYU Langone’s history. Our strategy is to reorganize and optimize NYU Langone’s physical resources and accommodate future growth on the main campus (the area bounded by 34th Street to the north, 30th Street to the south, the FDR Drive to the east, and First Avenue to the west) and beyond. Our vision is to expand NYU Langone south along First Avenue and to nearby city streets, and further still into other boroughs of New York City and the greater New York metropolitan area. NYU Langone Health’s First Avenue location. The vision behind our campus transformation calls for: upgrading, standardizing, and integrating acute patient care services in the to offer a world-class, seamless patient experience across both facilities on the main campus extending ambulatory care , administration, and housing resources to the surrounding neighborhood and region concentrating and expanding research and education efforts primarily in the southeast corner of the main campus, with further growth extending to sites off-campus as well maintaining a robust and scalable infrastructure to meet NYU Langone’s energy and infrastructure needs now and in the future The overarching goal of this campus transformation is to uphold our mission of being a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center. Building the Helen L. & Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Building the Energy Building Transforming Tisch Hospital Building the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services Building the Science Building Ambulatory Care Expansion Art Program NYU Langone’s mission to serve, teach, and discover is achieved through the leadership of a team of executives, department chairs deans trustees and overseers Learn more about our executive leadership team. RobertI. Grossman, MD Dean and Chief Executive Officer Steven B. Abramson, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs, Chief Academic Officer Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Science, Chief Scientific Officer Andrew W. Brotman, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Clinical Affairs and Strategy, Chief Clinical Officer Fritz François, MD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Hospital Operations Elizabeth Golden Executive Vice President for Communications, Marketing, Government and Community Affairs JosephJ. Greco, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Annette Johnson, JD, PhD Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, General Counsel Grace Y. Ko Executive Vice President for Development and Alumni Affairs Joseph J. Lhota Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Financial Officer and Chief of Staff Vicki Match Suna, AIA Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Real Estate Development and Facilities Nader Mherabi Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief Digital and Information Officer Bret J. Rudy, MD Executive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Nancy Sanchez Executive Vice President and Vice Dean for Human Resources Trustees & Overseers NYU Langone Health has the highest quality of care and patient safety rankings of any healthcare organization in the country. Evaluated across all key measures and ratings of healthcare performance, we are the top academic health system in the nation. Recognized for Outstanding Quality and Safety NYU Langone is recognized by Vizient, Inc. as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the United States. Vizient, the nation’s largest healthcare performance improvement organization, examined 115 comprehensive academic medical centers. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect our commitment to continual improvement. For the past 11 years, NYU Langone has received top rankings for overall patient safety and quality of care from Vizient. In 2024, NYU Langone was recognized as the top performer in the Bernard A. Birnbaum, MD, Quality Leadership Annual Ranking for demonstrating high quality and safety performance. Each year, we are recognized for providing outstanding care from other independent healthcare performance improvement organizations. The Leapfrog Group has routinely named NYU Langone among the top hospitals nationwide for quality and safety, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has honored us with a five-star rating for safety, quality, and patient experience. In addition, NYU Langone’s were each awarded an “A” in the spring 2024 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, a national distinction that recognizes NYU Langone’s achievement in providing the highest level of patient care across the health system and an honor attained by only 30 percent of hospitals across the country. Why Quality Matters Our patients can find confidence and take comfort in these independent assessments of our performance. As rigorous authorities, these organizations offer solid reassurance that NYU Langone is worthy of the trust our patients place in us. VIDEO: Dr. Ilseung Cho discusses why quality and safety matter for patients, and how Vizient rankings are a valuable resource for us to understand how NYU Langone performs compared to other healthcare systems around the country. The National Academy of Medicine defines healthcare quality as having several key components: effectiveness, efficiency, equity, patient-centeredness, safety, and timeliness. At NYU Langone, we continuously monitor more than 800 metrics, ranging from infection rates to patient experience scores, to ensure quality and safety at every level of patient care. Available to every clinician in the health system, our data dashboards provide real-time information that offers insight into the progress of our performance and helps identify opportunities for enhancement. But quality means more than just metrics. We understand that every datapoint we track represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. Our top rankings for quality and safety reflect this shared commitment to continual improvement based on evidence-based medicine and institutional integrity. Top-Ranked Specialties ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25, including the No. 1 ranking for neurology and neurosurgery. We are tied for No. 1 for pulmonology and lung surgery. To be nationally ranked in a specialty, a hospital must excel in caring for the most ill, most medically complex patients. NYU Langone is consistently recognized for our specialty care, with 13 top-ranked specialties: : No. 1 pulmonology and lung surgery : No. 1 (tie) : No. 2 geriatrics : No. 2 (tie) : No. 3 rehabilitation : No. 4 (tie) : No. 5 gastroenterology and GI surgery : No. 9 ear, nose, and throat : No. 10 cancer : No. 17 : No. 19 (tie) Our CMS rating and rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals—different from the way many other health systems operate. Some report only on their main hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Awards and Recognition By making regulatory compliance a top priority, The Joint Commission—the country’s leading accreditor of healthcare organizations—awarded NYU Langone full accreditation and its Gold Seal of Approval in recognition of our commitment to safety and quality five consecutive times, most recently in 2021. We’re also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a , meaning our team of neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, and specially trained nurses based at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide the most advanced care. The Comprehensive Stroke Center also earned the American Heart Association’s Get with the Guidelines—Stroke Gold Plus and Target: Stroke Honor Roll Elite Plus award, which recognizes our consistent compliance with quality measures for treating stroke. The Joint Commission has also recognized us for excellence in perinatal, palliative, and ventricular assist device care. Excellence in Nursing Across NYU Langone, our nurses drive exceptional patient care outcomes through their combination of clinical expertise, dedication, and compassion. Our nurses are recognized for excellence in the care they provide, receiving Magnet status for the fourth consecutive time by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Magnet status is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of hospitals in the United States—and we are proud that all NYU Langone inpatient locations are Magnet designated. The prestigious recognition is one of the highest honors a healthcare institution can achieve, and speaks to exceptional teamwork and coordination not only among nurses, but among all faculty and staff. To earn Magnet designation, organizations must pass a rigorous and lengthy process that demands widespread participation from leadership and staff. Through our various educational programs, specialty certifications, awards, and advocacy efforts, our nurses prove their dedication to the health and wellbeing of our patients. At NYU Langone, our nationally recognized nurses are committed to providing world-class care and improving patient outcomes. NYU Langone’s focus on high reliability and patient safety, quality care, and continual improvement gives our nurses a strong presence as patient advocates, decision makers, and collaborative partners. NYU Langone nurses deliver the best and safest patient care by embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team. Our culture supports and encourages the voice of our nurses in all aspects of patient care delivery, and nurses participate in all organization-wide initiatives to ensure that patients and their families are at the center of all we do. ambulatory nursing Magnet designation mother–baby care stroke care nurse residency programs nursing research our leadership team Promoting Excellence in Nursing Our nursing mission aligns with NYU Langone’s five core values of performance, respect, integrity, diversity, and excellence, which enables our team to build on our tradition of service, to foster a culture of collaboration and teamwork, and to better meet the needs of our patients. Our nursing mission requires critical thinking in scholarly inquiry, the use of research, and ongoing development of evidence-based practice to promote new knowledge and interdisciplinary collaboration, support patient safety, and strengthen the discipline of nursing. We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff through continuing education, preceptorships, professional development opportunities, and mentorship programs. We also bestow a variety of nursing excellence awards to our nurses during Nurses’ Week celebrations at each of our hospitals. NYU Langone has one of the most educated professional nursing staff in the country. 92 percent of our registered nursing clinical staff hold a bachelor of science in nursing (BSN) degree, while nearly 9 percent hold a master of science in nursing (MSN) degree or above. 38 percent of our nurses also hold a specialty nursing certificate. At the nurse leadership level, 99 percent hold a BSN degree, 53 percent hold an MSN degree, and 10 percent hold a doctoral degree. In addition, 60 percent of our nurse leaders hold a specialty certification. Quality Care and Innovations in Ambulatory Nursing As integral members of our award-winning ambulatory care network, our nurses provide competent, safe, and compassionate care, with the emphasis on relationship building with patients and families. Our ambulatory nurses use the steps of the nursing process that include assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation so patients are educated about their health and what to expect during treatment. Many of our ambulatory care nurses hold certifications set by external national organizations in their area of expertise. Magnet Designation for Superior Nursing Care NYU Langone nurses consistently receive awards on the national level, including recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center’s (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program . The Magnet designation is granted every four years to only those organizations that demonstrate sustained superiority in nursing care. NYU Langone’s have earned this distinction. recognition is an honor achieved by only 9.4 percent of all hospitals in the United States, with less than 1 percent receiving this designation 4 or more times, including Tisch Hospital. Exemplar Recognitions at Our Hospitals NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion nursing teams have received five exemplars, or examples of best practices, in the following areas: reducing mortality rates through NYU Langone’s rapid response teams, comprising nurses who deliver care immediately during emergencies interdisciplinary collaboration with our information technology teams in our electronic records system, Epic, to develop an innovative workflow for alerting clinicians if a patient has measles gender-affirming care, highlighting that NYU Langone is a leader in providing culturally competent nursing care to the our tobacco use screening program, which yields better results than any other hospital system in the country our nursing research program, citing the number of journal publications and presentations NYU Langone’s nursing teams are involved in NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital nurses have received five exemplars in the following areas: support and encouragement of nursing specialty certification interdisciplinary collaboration on improving outcomes for patients who are having same-day extensive resources used to support clinical decision-making in autonomous nursing practice screening all patients for tobacco use and offering support through our Tobacco Cessation Programs organizational structures and processes that support the use of evidence-based findings in order to implement innovative nursing practices NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s nursing teams have received two exemplars in the following areas: postoperative glucose management in patients who have had cardiac surgery that consistently outperforms national benchmarks vesicant infiltration, or wound infection, rates that are consistently below the Oncology Nursing Society’s nationally published rate We promote an environment of continual growth for our nurses by supporting the education and development of our nursing staff. These exemplars represent just a few notable examples of the highest levels of care that our nurses deliver each and every day. Leaders in Mother–Baby Care Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are designated as Baby-Friendly Hospitals, a distinction awarded by Baby-Friendly USA in acknowledgment of our nurses’ commitment to breastfeeding support and education. The designation is awarded to less than 10 percent of hospitals in the United States. This global program recognizes hospitals and birthing centers that provide an outstanding level of obstetric care. Hospitals that achieve the Baby-Friendly designation must undergo a rigorous on-site survey as well as implement all of the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding, which represent practices that have been shown to increase breastfeeding initiation and duration, and meet the requirements of purchasing breast milk substitutes. Becoming a Baby-Friendly facility is a comprehensive, detailed, and thorough journey toward excellence in providing evidence-based maternity care, with the goal of achieving optimal infant feeding outcomes and mother–baby bonding.> Specialized Stroke Care Our nurses are proud to provide the most advanced care at NYU Langone’s , which is certified by The Joint Commission. As core members of our stroke team, our nurses are often the first to respond during a stroke, where our teams mobilize rapidly to immediately treat patients with stroke. Nurses in our stroke and neurointensive care units are specially trained to coordinate care from stroke risk identification through treatment and recovery, and are able to administer the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Stroke Scale for acute stroke assessment. Along with extensive training in stroke protocols, our nurses also participate in regular stroke conferences, and many hold advanced certifications in stroke nursing. At each of our inpatient hospitals, we host residency programs for all newly licensed nurse graduates who hold a BSN. The program supports the transition from an academic to a clinical setting by incorporating interactive classroom instruction with hands-on clinical training. By embracing collaboration with all members of a patient’s healthcare team, our nurses deliver the best and safest care. The program emphasizes three components: leadership, patient safety, and professional responsibilities. As a member of the nursing staff on an assigned unit, nurse residents are provided with clinical support and mentoring relationships to help them develop their abilities and confidence as a professional. Distinction in Nursing Research NYU Langone supports a culture of inquiry through research and evidence-based practices among nurses by providing programs and services designed to elevate and enrich their research and scholarly achievements. Every technique, procedure, and skill performed by our nurses is based on contemporary scientific evidence, allowing our nurses to provide exceptional care. Nurse–scientists and researchers at our Center for Innovations in the Advancement of Care (CIAC) help sharpen research skills through online resource utilization and hands-on workshops for NYU Langone nurses. The offerings include research and scholarly skills workshops and lectures to help nurses develop effective research methods and perform literature searches using state-of-the-art electronic platforms, as well as one-on-one and small group consultation sessions that cover topics such as institutional review board submission procedures, protocol development, research design, database creation, and data analysis. Magnet reviewers cited the CIAC’s scholarly presentation and publication database an exemplar of research-related programming. A recent addition is our Nursing Science Fellowship program. This structured program provides NYU Langone nurses with the opportunity to develop their nursing science skills in an academic health system. The center also hosts quarterly nursing research forums in the spring and fall on a variety of topics, specifically tailored to nurses working across the health system. Recent topics include research on mothers who continue to express milk after their infant’s death for donation purposes, the nurse manager’s role, and the lived experiences of adult individuals from the transgender community seeking access and obtaining healthcare. Nursing research forum speakers are nurses within the NYU Langone community who are doctoral candidates or hold a PhD. These educational and informational sessions are approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Annual Nursing Science Conference is the longest running hospital-based nursing science conference in the country and features nationally recognized nurse researchers and scholars who present a keynote speech. The keynote speakers continue their involvement at NYU Langone as McClure Scholars, interacting with staff before or after the conference. The conference program is approved for continuing nursing education credit hours and open to both the internal and external community. Registration is now open for the 27th Annual Nursing Science Conference For more information on the conference or any of the programs we offer, please email CIAC.Info@nyulangone.org Our Nursing Leadership at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn offers medical and surgical options to people who need assistance and guidance in their effort to reach and maintain a healthy weight. Start Your Weight Loss Journey Learn more about the surgical options we offer during a free, virtual information session. Register and view the online seminar is a serious medical condition that increases a person's risk of , and certain cancers. Losing weight and keeping it off is not always easy, and for some people, medically supervised nutrition counseling or surgery are the best way to achieve long-lasting results. The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn provides the following treatment options: The Weight Management Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program. Our surgeons are based in Brooklyn and Staten Island, and are fluent in English, Arabic, French, Spanish, Hindi, and Urdu. Surgery is performed at Attend a Weight Loss Surgery Information Seminar Before coming to our Weight Management Program for a surgery consultation, we strongly recommend that you attend a free, online information seminar. This seminar gives you the details about bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, that you and your surgeon will use to decide which operation is right for you. Learn more about the information seminar Job Details 2025-01-07T03:55:38+00:00 000015_000015 / Virtual Interview Day – Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! Job ID: 000015_000015 Facility: NYU Grossman School of Medicine (SOM) Position Type: Full-Time/Regular Shift: Days and Nights Available Department: Physician Assistants, Medicine-Hospital Med Division (S2057) Apply for This Position Apply as Current Employee Virtual Interview Day Physician Assistant – New Grads Welcome! We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant Internal Medicine – Bellevue. Day and Night shifts available!  Seeking individuals who have a passion in servicing underserved populations. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision, coordination, and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care, performance of therapeutic, corrective, and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population, assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Medical Center. Job Responsibilities: Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. Supports the mission, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of the institution, department and clinical service. Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols, pathways, and other means. Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members. Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards, patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise. Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members, house staff, other disciplines and ancillary services. Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting. Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services, e.g. home care, other facilities, appointments with MDs etc. Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge. Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities. Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards. Functions as a respectful member of the health care team. Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role. Maintains current expertise in area of practice. Maintains annual CME requirement for re-appointment and privileging. Maintains PA board certification. Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals. Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement. Uses evidence-based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service. Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise. Assists in the preparation, implementation, and evaluation of research protocols when applicable. Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position, particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service. Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials, including patient screening, enrollment and data collection. At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical, surgical and other specialty areas. Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred. Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills, effective communication skills, creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills. Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities.Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable. Prescribes in-patient and discharge medications according to New York State law, including controlled substances with DEA authorization. Prescribes medical equipment, devices, physical and occupational therapy, and home health services per practice protocol. Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges. Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently. Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols. Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor’s Degree (BA-PA) NCCPA Board Certification ACLS, PALS, NRP Provider (Neonatal Resuscitation Program) NALS per delineation of privileges. Required Licenses: Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst, Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Preferred Qualifications: Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Qualified candidates must be able to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization. NYU Grossman School of Medicine provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s EEO policies, please click here . Please to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm for more information. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $120,000 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Salaries shown on independent jobs related websites reflect market averages and do not represent information obtained directly from NYU Langone. We invite and encourage each candidate to discuss salary/hourly specifics during the application and hiring process. Read More About This Job Share this job: Save this job View Job Cart Related Job Listings Other Jobs That May Interest You Physician Assistant - Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Physician Assistants Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner - Non-invasive Cardiology - Manhattan - 10hr Days Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner - Medical ICU About NYU Langone Health Be Where Everyone Is Dedicated to Exceptional Care NYU Langone is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture devoted to excellence across the organization. Here, you can advance your career supported by exceptionally talented faculty and staff in an environment where everyone works together to deliver the best possible outcomes for our patients. Our Hiring Process Joining Our Team Get ready to start your career journey at NYU Langone, where cutting-edge research meets compassionate care, and discover how you can contribute to shaping the future of medicine. Step 1 Apply Online The NYU Langone hiring process begins with you applying through our online portal. Be sure to update and upload your resume. Shortly after you submit your application, you will receive an email confirmation. Ten days after applying you will receive a talent assessment to be completed. Step 2 Schedule Interviews If selected to continue the interview process, HR will reach out via phone or email first. Then, depending on your position, they will schedule an interview with unit managers or team members. You are encouraged to dress professionally for all interviews. Step 3 Receive Offer If you successfully complete the interview process and are identified as a finalist for the position, we will require that you complete a professional reference process. After evaluating the completed references, a decision will be made on who will receive a preliminary offer. If you receive a preliminary offer, HR will start the onboarding process with an agreed-upon tentative start date. Step 4 Training & Orientation You will be contacted by an onboarding specialist who will work with you on your pre-boarding requirements. Once fully cleared, we will ask you to complete compliance orientation regulatory training. On your first day, you will attend an online required orientation to acclimate to the health system and report to your new department based on instructions provided by your hiring manager. Hear From Our Team Joseph O. Jane F. Noa L. Victoria L. Nazneen H. Refrigeration Engineer Helper In my role, I provide a favorable atmosphere for our patients, visitors, employees, and students by ensuring their safety against fire hazards and by maintaining conducive temperatures throughout the seasons. I'm proud to work alongside my teammates to provide excellent service at a world-class organization that offers great opportunities to deserving candidates. Jan 2018 Security Officer Nov 2022 Dental Assistant NYU Langone Health is a great place to work. I enjoy working with my colleagues as a team. NYU Langone offers training programs that allow us to grow within the organization. I feel valued as  an employee. Feb 2009 Senior Nursing Assistant – Stroke Unit MAR 2022 Dental Assistant Trainee FEB 2023 Supervisor, Patient Access Center When I first began working at NYU Langone Health, I felt a sense of belonging and realized this is where I want to spend the rest of my professional career. Since joining, I've pushed myself to do well in every position I have and to advance. I not only enjoy my current role, but I also enjoy learning about new topics. I am excited to explore what else NYU Langone has to offer me in my career. Nov 2021 Access Center Representative I Aug 2022 Access Center Representative II Oct 2023 Lead Access Center Representative Sept 2024 Growing up in New York City, I was aware of the prestige that NYU Langone Health held, so I decided to pursue a career at the premier health system after graduation. I enjoy helping, treating and supporting everyday New Yorkers and feeling like I make a difference. Working here, I feel like I am able to show up as my authentic self to assist our patient community. Nov 2016 Jul 2022 I was fortunate to receive firsthand training from some of the founding team members of my department. This made my onboarding experience invaluable, and now I will get to pass on my knowledge and experience to future new hires within the department and pay it forward. The collaborative spirit at NYU Langone Health has created an excellent work culture where I can work alongside colleagues who share our same company vision to serve, teach and discover. Clinical Charge Nurse Auditor in Revenue Management Initiatives What are the employment options offered at NYU Langone? We offer different employment options to fit every schedule and talent area of interest. These options include full time, part time, per diem, internship, and temporary. What if the opportunity I’m looking for is not available? We are growing rapidly and are always looking for exceptional people to join our organization. New positions are posted to our careers site daily. How often are your jobs updated? We update our job postings daily. How do I apply for a job at NYU Langone? All applications should be submitted by clicking the “Apply for This Position” button on any job listing. How do I apply for a temporary position? To search and apply for our available temporary opportunities, use the Job Search function, which is accessible on the home page and other careers site pages. NYU Langone has various temporary opportunities, including our In-House Temporary Staffing Program. The Program is designed to place highly skilled individuals in temporary assignments throughout NYU Langone to help our departments meet their commitment to quality patient care, research, and operations. These individuals are temporary employees within NYU Langone and adhere to all NYU Langone policies and guidelines. How do I apply for an internship opportunity? Paid internship opportunities can be found on our careers site by searching via the Job Search function. Unpaid internships are organized by department. You can explore our departments at NYU Langone to find an internship opportunity that suits your educational endeavors. Additionally, please visit the internship page to learn more about our internship opportunities. Do I need an email address to apply for positions at NYU Langone? Yes, an email address is required to complete the online application. You must have an active email account, as you will receive email notifications once your application has been received. What format should my resume be in? In order for your resume to be submitted successfully, it should be in one of the following supported formats: .pdf, .txt, .rtf, .doc, .docx, or .html. How will I know if my application was successfully submitted? You will receive an email confirmation after you have completed the online application process. To ensure that the information you submitted was completed accurately, you are encouraged to log in to your account and review your information. You will also receive an email confirmation after successfully applying for a specific position. To check the status of your application, please click Current employees can check application status on the Steps for Success Career Portal 0000020_0000020 Virtual Interview Day – LPN Lake Success Job ID: 0000020_0000020 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Shift: M-F Department: Nursing, FGP-NYU Lake Success Medical (W8398) NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) VIRTUAL LPN INTERVIEW DAY! Seeking passionate LPNs who will support our Endocrinology and Multispecialty facilities in Lake Success!  For immediate consideration, please apply online. JOB SUMMARY – Successful candidate will provide endocrinology education to diabetic patients and partner with registered nurse in assessing patients, going over treatment plans, gathering medical history, and assisting with respective screenings.  Must be compassionate, detail oriented, and the ability to multi-task. Multispeciality – The LPN will be responsible for administering all vaccinations and triaging patients at this facility.  Specialties comprise of Internal Medicine, OB/GYN, Neurology and Plastic Surgery. The FGP LPN will assist the RN in the care of patients and families by completing assigned patient care tasks, in accordance with the NYS LPN scope of practice and NYULH policy. In this role, the FGP LPN will provide competent, safe, and compassionate care with emphasis on an understanding of the challenges faced by health maintenance, illness, hospitalization, undergoing procedures, or diagnostic testing. The FGP LPN will check vital signs, recording a patients medical history, and utilize specialized skills and safety when carrying out specific tasks of patient care as assigned, including phlebotomy, point of care testing via finger stick, with certification, and electrocardiograms. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS Graduate from an accredited LPN program with current NY State LPN licensure and registration. Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS BLS certification preferred Good comprehension of the English language NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $42,847.99 – $62,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. To view the Pay Transparency Notice, please NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island’s EEO policies, please Clinical Perfusionist, per diem Nursing Senior Nursing Attendant - Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Mineola, NY Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) - OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Joseph J. Lhota, executive vice president and vice dean, chief financial officer and chief of staff, is responsible for the overall financial management of NYU Langone Health, including financial operations and accounting; financial planning, analysis, and budgets; revenue cycle operations; supply chain management; decision support, strategy, and value improvement; and technology opportunities and ventures. As chief of staff, Mr. Lhota is responsible for strategic planning, business development, emergency management, and enterprise resilience for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Additionally, he assists the dean and CEO in aligning patient care, scientific research, and medical education for an integrated, world-class academic medical center. Mr. Lhota brings more than 40 years of managerial and policymaking experience to the position. He was a candidate for mayor of the City of New York in 2013. From 2011 to 2012, Mr. Lhota served as chairman and CEO of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA). During his tenure, mass transit service throughout the New York metropolitan area expanded. The rapid response and quick restoration of the entire MTA system after the devastation of Superstorm Sandy are recognized as a case study in excellent managerial leadership. From 2002 to 2010, he served as chief administrative officer at The Madison Square Garden Company and held senior executive positions at Cablevision Systems Corporation, including executive vice president–corporate administration, chief financial officer of Rainbow Media Enterprises, and president of Lightpath. From 1998 to 2001, Mr. Lhota served as New York City deputy mayor for operations. He was a leader of the core management team that developed and implemented the innovative strategies and initiatives that accomplished the successful turnaround of the City. As deputy mayor, he coordinated the City’s highly acclaimed response to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Prior to his appointment as deputy mayor, he was the director of the Mayor’s Office of Management and Budget and responsible for the City’s $36 billion operating budget and $45 billion capital infrastructure budget. He served as commissioner of finance for the City, as well as chairman of the board of the New York City Employees’ Retirement System and the Teachers’ Retirement System and a board member of the NYC Health and Hospitals Corporation. From 2001 to 2014, Mr. Lhota was a trustee of the City University of New York and chairman of its Fiscal Affairs and Investments Committees. Prior to his public service, Mr. Lhota spent 14 years in investment banking, serving state and local governments, healthcare institutions, and nongovernmental organizations throughout the United States, and two years in public accounting, specializing in healthcare and financial services. Mr. Lhota has served as NYU Langone’s chief of staff since 2014, and in 2024 he was additionally appointed chief financial officer. As chief of staff, he was integral in shaping NYU Langone’s strategic vision and managing an organizational culture that recognizes innovation, execution, efficiency, effectiveness, and—above all—quality performance. Mr. Lhota managed the successful integration effort of Lutheran Medical Center into , shepherded the system through the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergencies, and strengthened NYU Langone’s relationships with governments and local communities. Mr. Lhota received an undergraduate degree, cum laude, from Georgetown University and a master’s degree in business administration from Harvard Business School. As a child, Catherine S. Manno, MD , was influenced by the way in which her physician father treated his patients. And so, when she helped build the team at , she set out to provide a new level care for children. With a world-class care team and a state-of-the-art facility, she strives to make a child’s hospital experiences as normal as can be—with as much kindness as possible. Learn About Our Services for Children Meet Our Experts Dr. Arun Chopra, Pediatric Intensive Care Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal, Pediatrician and Adolescent Medicine Specialist Dr. Jason Fisher, Pediatric Surgeon Dr. Ralph S. Mosca, Director of Congenital Heart Surgery Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov, Chief of Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher, Director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center Dr. Elizabeth Raetz, Director of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Dr. Scott Rickert, Pediatric Ear, Nose, and Throat Surgeon Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff, Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery From advanced treatment options to cutting-edge clinical trials, offers personalized care for all types of cancer. Hear first-hand from cancer survivors on how this individualized approach has helped them. Learn About Perlmutter Cancer Center Meet Some of Our Patients and Experts Meet Phil and Paul: Prostate Cancer Survivors Meet Dr. Francis Arena: Medical Oncologist Meet Dr. Richard Shapiro: Surgical Oncologist, Breast and Skin Cancer Meet Dr. Dafna Bar-Sagi: Chief Scientific Officer at NYU Langone Meet Dr. Jiyoung Ahn: Associate Director, Population Sciences Technology has completely changed how we live our lives: with just a few taps, we can call a car, order a meal, or find the nearest urgent care—all on our mobile devices. It’s afforded an amazing amount of freedom, access, and efficiency. You can get a similar level of digital service you’re used to in other industries when you receive healthcare at NYU Langone. Our integrated medical record system enables seamless collaboration among doctors, staff, and patients. Using our , you have access to your medical records, anytime and anywhere. You can view test results, video chat with a doctor when you’re home sick through , make appointments for you or your family—and this is all just the beginning of our digital health offerings. From the design of our hospital, artificial intelligence harnessed in cancer research, high-precision robotic surgery, and virtual reality in medical school training, digital health has permeated our mission: to serve, to teach, and to discover. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Team , we know that having affects more than just your physical wellbeing. It impacts many facets of your life, including how well you get around, your ability to remain in the workforce, and your mental outlook. That’s why every affected person and his or her family meet with specialists who can address the different challenges of living with multiple sclerosis. These specialists include our neurologists, psychologists, and urologists , as well as the following members of our care team. Neuropsychologist Leigh E. Charvet, PhD Dr. Charvet is a clinical neuropsychologist and director of MS research. She received her doctorate from Vanderbilt University and completed an internship at VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven Campus, and Yale Epilepsy Program, followed by a postdoctoral fellowship at Stony Brook Medicine. Her primary research activities focus on cognitive changes associated with MS in both adults and children, along with cognitive remediation and other approaches to improve functioning and prevent decline. Her recent research includes a program for remotely supervised transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to alleviate MS symptoms of fatigue, cognitive slowing, and motor deficits. Learn more about Dr. Charvet Nurse Practitioners Carrie Lyn Sammarco, DrNP, FNP-C, MSCN Dr. Sammarco received her doctor of nursing practice degree from the Columbia University School of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center team in 2010. Dr. Sammarco specializes in the management of highly complex MS symptoms and has a special interest in incorporating mindfulness techniques into her practice. Jennifer Abate, DNP, FNP-BC, APHN-BC, MSCN Dr. Abate received her doctor of nursing practice degree from New York University Rory Meyers College of Nursing. She joined the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center in 2015. Dr. Abate has additional training in holistic and palliative care. She strives to provide individualized care plans that match each patient’s values and goals. Learn more about Dr. Abate Gabriella Brogna, AGPCNP-BC Melissa Docteur, MSN, PMHNP-BC Melissa is a board-certified nurse practitioner. She received her master of nursing practice degree from Hunter College School of Nursing. At the MS Comprehensive Cancer Center, Melissa specializes in the management of psychiatric conditions and mental health concerns that are often associated with MS. In her practice, she strives to implement a holistic approach that incorporates different psychotherapy modalities and medication management. Registered Nurses Lisa Laing, MSCN, BSN, RN Lisa is a registered nurse certified in the care of people with MS. She is the senior nurse clinician and has 25 years of experience and expertise in providing education and symptom management strategies. Richard Del Pino, BSN, RN, MSCN Richard is an MS-certified registered nurse with three years of experience working with MS patients. Richard helps provide disease education, including symptom management techniques, and assists in providing high-quality medical care to our patients. Emily Meyer, MSCN, MSN, RN Emily is an MS-certified nurse with seven years of experience working with MS patients and their families. She provides education about medications and symptom management. She is most passionate about assisting patients with care coordination and providing support to help patients achieve their highest quality of life. Laura Mendez, BSN, RN Laura joined the MS Comprehensive Care Center in 2021. As part of the team, she provides education to children, adolescents, and adults who have multiple sclerosis or other demyelinating conditions. She also educates and counsels parents and guardians on a variety of issues, including symptom management and treatment, while reminding them that MS will not be an obstacle in their child’s future. Her goal as a nurse is to explain the complexities of MS while communicating in a meaningful and caring way. Rachel Decker, LMSW As a licensed master social worker (LMSW), Rachel provides comprehensive support to individuals living with multiple sclerosis. She offers counseling and supports services tailored to each patient’s unique needs. Rachel works closely with patients and their families to connect them with valuable resources in the community, ensuring they have the tools and support necessary to navigate their journey with MS. For more information, or to make an appointment, please call NYU Langone Nursing Leadership The nursing leadership team at NYU Langone is committed to excellent patient outcomes, maintaining a high-quality nursing practice environment, and advancing our institution’s commitment to quality care. John Davidson, MBA, PA-C Senior Director of Advanced Practice Providers Kathleen DeMarco, PhD, MSN, NE-BC, CPHQ, RN System Senior Director of Nursing Wellness and Resilience Kimberley Ennis, DNP, RN Site Leader of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Jose M. Hernandez, MS, BS, RN Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Alice Nash, PhD, RN, NPD-BC, NEA-BC System Senior Director, Nursing Professional Development and Clinical Outcomes Rita Roberts, RN, AAS, BSN Vice President of Perioperative and Procedural Areas, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Joan Scagliola, MSN, RN, NEA-BC Senior Director of Outpatient Oncology and Hospital Ambulatory Clinical Services Jaclyn S. Schindler, PMC, MPH, BSN, FNP-BC, RN-BC Senior Director, Clinical and Nursing Operations, Faculty Group Practice Lauraine Spano-Szekely, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA-BC Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion Peter Rodney, RN, MSN, CNOR, NEA-BC Vice President of Perioperative Services, Manhattan Lauren Stoerger, DNP, RN, NEA-BC, CCRN-K Vice President of Nursing and Patient Care Services, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Will Winfree, MHA System Senior Director, Nursing Operations Strategy and Innovation Kathleen Evanovich Zavotsky , PhD, RN, CCRN, CEN, ACNS-BC, FAEN, FCNS System Senior Director, Nursing Research and Program Evaluation Nancy Sanchez, executive vice president and vice dean for human resources, is responsible for strategic human resource initiatives, practices, and overall operations that support more than 40,000 faculty, staff, and students across NYU Langone Health. Having started her career in human resources (HR), she has held numerous leadership roles in areas of compensation, benefits, employee and labor relations, recruitment, and training. Ms. Sanchez developed an early business philosophy: build an effective team with high service expectations and a partnership with all levels in the organization. This has been critical to her goal of designing programs and initiatives that support the growth of those who aspire to assume leadership roles, while also fostering the overall development of faculty and staff. Among her recent efforts, Ms. Sanchez has led initiatives that support the vision and mission of the health system through automation and redesign of systems and processes to simplify the administration of HR services for faculty and staff, while also ensuring compliance with the exponential increase in external regulations. As the health system continues to expand, she redesigned how HR services are provided to sustain high quality and manage new challenges. Operating under the belief that the most important and valued resource of the health system is its employees, she and her team continue to focus on talent management strategy, based on a competency model, to foster the development of faculty, staff, and leadership. In partnership with leaders throughout the organization, Ms. Sanchez promotes the continued expansion of career development programs offered to faculty and staff within the newly established NYU Langone Academy, which are both interdisciplinary, as well as focused on specific mission areas. Representing the “voice of the employee,” she continues to be a strong employee advocate within the organization by building strong relationships at all levels, as well as externally by participating in national employer councils. Ms. Sanchez holds a master of science from the Baruch/Cornell Program of Industrial and Labor Relations and a bachelor’s degree in business administration from Hofstra University. Bret J. Rudy, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations of . Dr. Rudy, who has also served as NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s chief medical officer, has been instrumental in the hospital’s transformation and implementation of quality initiatives and clinical programs. Dr. Rudy facilitated the integration of what was formerly known as Lutheran Medical Center with NYU Langone Health, building a full complement of medical and technological services while implementing the same high standard of patient care for the Brooklyn community. Since Dr. Rudy’s appointment in 2016, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn has received multiple quality and safety accolades, including being the only hospital in Brooklyn to receive an “A” rating in the fall 2022 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grades and the first hospital in Brooklyn to receive Magnet designation for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Board-certified in adolescent medicine, Dr. Rudy is professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and has been on the staff of NYU Langone since 2009. Before being named to his post at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, he was vice chair of the Department of Pediatrics and spearheaded the expansion of inpatient services and quality initiatives for children’s services, as well as faculty recruitment and program development. He helped lay the groundwork for establishing pediatric subspecialty services, including pediatric gastroenterology, pulmonology, cardiology, and a pediatric hospitalist program. Dr. Rudy is internationally recognized as a leader in HIV care and research in adolescents and young adults. He led numerous nationwide studies involving novel treatment and prevention strategies. His extensive research has been presented at national and international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals. A graduate of the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Dr. Rudy completed his residency in pediatrics and fellowships in hematology–oncology and in general pediatrics/HIV at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, where he was associate chief and then acting chief of the Craig-Dalsimer Division of Adolescent Medicine. Nader Mherabi, executive vice president and vice dean, chief digital and information officer, is responsible for all information technology (IT) activities for NYU Langone Health and for information technology’s development as a strategic organizational asset. He previously was vice president for IT product solutions and chief technology officer for NYU Langone, responsible for technology strategy, infrastructure engineering, networks, data centers, application architecture, systems deployment, and support across the institution. Mr. Mherabi currently leads NYU Langone Health’s digital transformation initiative, driving the integration of the institution’s workflows, revolutionizing the digital patient experience and clinical environment, and empowering the institution with big data and advanced analytics to improve care delivery and efficiency. Mr. Mherabi has designed and implemented many large-scale, diverse systems for NYU Langone and has extensive experience in hospital clinical systems integration, research information technology, and education systems. He has developed an operational architecture for in-house application development and integration, as well as an electronic data repository, warehouse and dashboards center, research-specific infrastructure for computation and collaboration, and scores of mid-size applications for research, education, and clinical care environments. During his more than 30 years in the information technology field, Mr. Mherabi has implemented large-scale systems for top Fortune 500 companies worldwide, such as Credit Suisse and CitiGroup, and held several prominent IT management positions including senior director at Mount Sinai–NYU Health, vice president at Credit Suisse First Boston, vice president at Citibank, and senior application developer at AT&T and Aurora Consulting. As executive vice president for development and alumni affairs, Grace Ko leads NYU Langone Health’s fundraising efforts, which support the institution’s exceptional healthcare, medical schools, and research. Ms. Ko and her team foster relationships with transformational partners and have grown donations of every level. Additionally, Ms. Ko oversees efforts to build and sustain the powerful alumni community of NYU Langone’s medical schools. Under her leadership, NYU Langone has experienced unprecedented philanthropic growth, culminating in raising over 750 million dollars annually. Since joining NYU Langone in 2007, Ms. Ko has partnered with NYU Langone’s chair of the Board of Trustees, dean and CEO, and a multitude of constituencies to raise more than 4.9 billion dollars. This work has ignited NYU Langone’s ambitious campus transformation throughout New York City, Long Island, Palm Beach, FL, and beyond. Ms. Ko’s efforts have also helped NYU Langone launch “tuition-free” programs at both medical schools, which is a major source of pride for her and the entire medical community. Ms. Ko’s work has helped the health system to develop groundbreaking medical research, bring healthcare and material support to vulnerable communities, and more. Ms. Ko has grown her department into a sophisticated, thriving team that mirrors the aspirational drive of NYU Langone. Ms. Ko has consistently earned the trust of donors, who have recently given almost one billion dollars of unrestricted philanthropic support, allowing NYU Langone to direct funds to the areas of greatest need. Flexible funding at this level is rare and a clear sign of the giving community’s confidence in our executive leadership and the institution‘s ability to find the best ways to use philanthropic funds. Ms. Ko has extensive experience designing, leading, and managing national and international campaigns. She previously served as executive director of CCS Fundraising, the largest fundraising strategy and management firm in the world, and she has experience in local and national politics. Ms. Ko holds a bachelor’s degree in English from Barnard College of Columbia University. The NYU Langone Art Program and Collection integrates artwork of the highest quality into the healing environments of new and recently renovated spaces at NYU Langone locations including our ambulatory sites. Conceived by , AIA, vice dean for real estate development and facilities, the program’s diverse portfolio of works includes paintings, photographs, sculptures, installation art, and murals, by both emerging and established professional artists. The collection is built through acquisitions, commissions, and donations of art, as well as through other visual arts-related programming consistent with NYU Langone’s mission to be a world-class, patient-centered academic medical institution. In addition to the collection, curated exhibitions of a variety of artworks are hosted at the NYU Langone Art Gallery, which is adjacent to the Sid and Ruth Lapidus Health Sciences Library at 550 First Avenue. Spot, 2018. Donald Lipski. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff The Moon’s Eyelid, 2018. Alyson Shotz. Kimmel Pavilion. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: Frank Corr Energy of Endless Universe (Ekpyrotic String VI), 2017. Mariko Mori. Science Building. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Photo Credit: NYU Langone Staff In recent years, art has become increasingly important to many healthcare environments. Studies have shown that art in this setting can improve patients’ overall health outcomes, treatment compliance, and quality of life. Art also helps create a positive environment for caregivers, helping to reduce stress, and for employees, improving overall workplace satisfaction. The NYU Langone Art Program fosters a welcoming, healing environment that supports our mission to treat the whole patient by addressing emotional as well as physical needs. Fred Alvarez manages the program and collection. Contact him at Fred.Alvarez@NYULangone.org Current Art Exhibitions NYU Langone’s art gallery hosts regular exhibitions throughout the year. For more information, contact Art@NYULangone.org Past Art Exhibitions Previous art exhibitions on display at NYU Langone include the following: Metamorphosis: Agents of Change This exhibition features works by Boeke Lab, and artists Jaq Chartier and Laurie Frick. Inspired by DNA, this set of works uses color to develop visual expressions of life through time. Date: November 14, 2019, to February 14, 2020 In the Deep Heart’s Core This exhibition featured artworks that convey how our emotions and feelings are so closely linked to our heart and thus may influence its health, for better or worse. Artists include: Andrea Deszö, Dan Funderburgh, Cal Lane, André Lemos Pinto, Gianni Lillo, Cara Lynch, Andrea Mastrovito, Raymond Pettibon, Antonio Riello, Kako Ueda, and Tricia Wright. January 24 to April 26, 2019 Luminosity This exhibition featured a series of artworks by Cate Woodruff that illustrated light, color, and space. They were images that are not often seen with the naked eye and appeal to our sense of perception. September 13 to November 25, 2018 Victory Over the Sun This exhibition featured an art intervention by Monika Bravo that utilizes geometry and whimsical elements to create a sense of presence. April 25 to August 31, 2018 Our Cosmic Brain This exhibition featured artworks that celebrate the universe within our brain. Artists included Julia Buntaine and Laura Jacobson. January 11 to March 31, 2018 Herbarium This exhibition featured artworks that emphasize the role of plants in medicine through the times. Artists included Tatiana Arocha, Nancy Blum, Jody Guralnick, Portia Munson, Christopher Russell, Francesco Simeti, and Joy Taylor. September 7 to December 1, 2017 Manifest This exhibition featured data-driven works of art by artist Laura Splan. The works provide a new vocabulary to manifest our feelings and emotions, which are directly linked to our bodies. June 28 to August 24, 2017 Earth Rites This exhibition featured works by artist Portia Munson, which serve as a reminder of the profound impact we have on our environment, and a call to respect it. April 13 to June 16, 2017 Invisible Origins A multifaceted artist, Dong Hee Lee creates countless patterns centered on one of life’s most complex forms—the cell. Invisible to the human eye, the cell is revealed in its most gentle and simple form, a reminder of the constant yet unseen transformations within all living organisms. January 30 to March 24, 2017 Synapse This exhibition featured works by Filipe Cortez, which serve as a mirror of the memories created in the places we inhabit, and as a reflection of who we are as human beings. November 30, 2016 to January 13, 2017 Dermatographia This exhibition featured works by artist Ariana Page Russell, whose art brings to light the beauty behind dermatographia, a skin condition she has that is characterized by red or pink welts that appear when the skin is scratched. October 10 to November 18, 2016 1138385_RR00100550 Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF *IVF experience highly preferred* Job ID: 1138385_RR00100550 Shift: M-F 9a-5p with 3 weekend days per month will require a rotation to 109 West 27th Street as need Department: Nursing, Ambulatory/Outpatient Obs/Gyn-IVF FGP (S440) is one of the nation’s top-ranked medical schools. For 175 years, NYU Grossman School of Medicine has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history and enrich the lives of countless people. An integral part of , the Grossman School of Medicine at its core is committed to improving the human condition through medical education, scientific research, and direct patient care. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to med.nyu.edu , and interact with us on Glassdoor Position Summary: We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Ambulatory Care Nurse (37.5) – OBGYN/IVF. The Ambulatory Care Nurse will support the coordination integration communication implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures In this role the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling Specific activities include but are not limited to: • Performs physical examinations and diagnostic tests • Collects patient health history • Records information in electronic health record • Provides information counsel and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications including vaccination IV therapy oxygen administration provides comprehensive wound care and performs phone and in person patient triage for clinical concerns • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments procedures and anesthesia • Assesses and interprets patient information making treatment decisions as appropriate • Consults with clinical supervisors and licensed providers to determine best treatment plans for patients • Directs supervises and delegates to licensed practical nurses medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Performs other duties as needed Clinical Responsibilities • Supports the coordination integration communication implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Ensures clinical compliance with Patient Safety initiatives and reporting • Supports key quality initiatives e g MIPS Care gap management to impact clinical outcome measures • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies • Supports the missions philosophy standards goals and objectives of NYULH Departments of Nursing and FPG • Participates in coordination of on site activities to provide patient care in a healing humane and caring environment • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships • Serves as a support and resource for nursing other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence based practice • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality NYSED 2009 • Provides emergency care in accordance with organizational policy • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team • Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification Professional • Engages in self assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse • Procures and applies new knowledge related to medical treatment and technology • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice • Maintains awareness of current patient centered evidence based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Acts as a mentor to peers and colleagues • Fulfills obligation to identify and report professional misconduct appropriately Implementation / Provision of Care • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: physicians dentists nurse practitioners certified midwife physician assistants podiatrists • Assessment: Assess patients identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness condition or disability • Case finding: Identify unidentified co morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered • Co ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists physical therapists social workers physicians nurse practitioners dieticians navigators and discharge planners • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms disease prevention guidance rehabilitation care public health care and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling TASK/PROCEDURE • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data • Performs onsite testing e g : POC lab testing EKG specimen collection including phlebotomy auditory & visual test psychiatric & physical risk screening fetal monitoring ante partum and non stress test spirometry allergy skin testing bladder tb skin testing and result evaluation • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care provider orders and NYSBON scope of practice • Perform procedures e g : hot & cold applications placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances casts splints suture and staple removal urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter ear irrigation • Applies and removes dressings and performs wound care • Assists with Minor and Major Procedures • Performs patient monitoring including pre intra post procedure testing medication administration medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: IM PO SQ ID IV topical inhalation ocular vaginal rectal as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies This includes oxygen therapy • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider prospective authorization in EMR • Administers IV therapy: including blood blood products IV fluids chemotherapy with proper certification IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines • Maintains peripheral and central IV lines and manages complications with appropriate certification Communication and Message Management • Ensures clinical in baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner • Receives documents and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results follow up and explanation to patients as directed by provider • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings then notifies provider for final verification • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed Health Promotion & Education • Identifies through case finding and critical analysis patient family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments • Analyzes assessment data to determine health status and nursing diagnoses • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment • Identifies barriers to optimal care e g physical cognitive language literacy socioeconomic cultural and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes Patient Experience Serves as NYU Langone Health Faculty Group Practice Brand Ambassador by upholding the NYULH Mission vision and values and promoting excellence in the patient experience during every encounter •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off •   Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging •    Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles Additional Position Specific Responsibilities: Fertility education of patients and partners To qualify you must have a A Baccalaureate degree in Nursing is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York Bachelor s degree in Nursing required Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association Fluent written and spoken English language skills. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Cert ACLS certification Membership in pertinent professional organizations NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $136,500.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138566_RR00101029 Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings Job ID: 1138566_RR00101029 Shift: 3:00 PM – 11:00 PM, rotating weekends and holidays Department: Nursing, NSG – Inpatient Holding Acute (W6818) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. For more information, go to nyulangone.org We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Senior Nursing Attendant – Inpatient Holdings, Full-time, Evenings. In this role, the successful candidate assists in implementation of the nursing process by performing direct and indirect patient care to assigned patients under the supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse. Assists in maintaining an orderly and safe patient care environment and unit. Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property checklist  and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration, per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports any abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission as ordered, and as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patient’s condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the healthcare team Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended. Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Discusses personal or unit-based educational goals/plans with the Nurse Manager and/or Nursing Professional Development Specialist, as appropriate. Demonstrates accountability for supplies, equipment, and environmental support. Assists in the collection of data for the units Quality and Performance Improvement Program that includes patient satisfaction and other measures. Provide instruction and demonstrate desired skills before NA¿s are expected to undertake new tasks within their scope. Share feedback to both new and current NA¿s as it relates to areas where there are opportunities for development. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization Minimum Qualifications: To qualify you must be a High School Diploma or equivalent required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant Program, certified as a CNA and at least 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills. NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $49,721.28 – $51,863.68 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. , also known as the Perelman Emergency Center, opened in April 2014. Located at 570 First Avenue at 33rd Street, the 22,000-square-foot facility more than triples the size of the former emergency department. It is equipped with 40 treatment spaces, including 3 triage rooms, 3 resuscitation rooms, and 3 negative-pressure isolation rooms. An on-site pharmacist is on duty 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and there are separate entrances for ambulance and walk-in patients. In December 2013, NYU Langone’s longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews and Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50-million gift to create the Perelman Emergency Center . NYU Langone built the facility with flood mitigation measures that will help protect the facility against severe storms. Plans for a new, larger, and more modern emergency room began years before the impact of Superstorm Sandy forced the existing emergency room to close, but the closing afforded us the opportunity to accelerate construction of the new facility, and the Perelman Emergency Center opened 18 months after Superstorm Sandy hit. The Perelman Emergency Center maximizes clinical efficiencies and new technologies in emergency medicine. Its main features include: spacious treatment rooms and bedside registration state-of-the-art imaging facilities for quick testing and diagnosis efficient intake and discharge processes to make treatment areas available sooner for incoming patients new KiDS Emergency Department , which provides a child-focused and family-centered environment expedited service for less urgent, non-acute patients direct access to NYU Langone’s , a nationally recognized program The Perelman Emergency Center was designed to be flexible and scalable so that its space can be adapted to fluctuations in patient volume. Since opening, it has already been enhanced with the addition of five patient treatment bays in December 2017, and another two treatment bays in June 2018. 1138316_RR00100700 Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU Job ID: 1138316_RR00100700 Facility: NYU Langone Hospitals Shift: day/night rotation, 11.5-hour shifts Department: Physician Assistants, MICU-APP (H1814) NYU Langone Hospitals is a world-class, patient-centered, integrated academic medical center, known for its excellence in clinical care, research, and education. It comprises more than 200 locations throughout the New York area, including five inpatient locations a children’s hospital three emergency rooms and a level 1 trauma center. Also part of NYU Langone Health is the , a National Cancer Institute designated comprehensive cancer center, and , which since 1841 has trained thousands of physicians and scientists who have helped to shape the course of medical history. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. nd interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant or Acute Care Nurse Practitioner – Medical ICU. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for provision coordination and assurance of comprehensive medical care using sound medical knowledge and pertinent standards of care performance of therapeutic corrective and prescriptive measures on the designated inpatient or outpatient population assume delegatory responsibilities assigned by supervising physician privileged as Medical Staff of NYU Langone Health Supports the mission philosophy standards goals and objectives of the institution department and clinical service Educates patient and family to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns Evaluates treatment and health care plans for effectiveness and modifies per clinical standards and practice protocols Performs delegated clinical duties effectively and efficiently Practices as a member of the allied health staff according to the rules and regulations of the Medical Staff and bylaws as outlined in the delineation of privileges Prescribes medical equipment devices physical and occupational therapy and home health services per practice protocol Prescribes in patient and discharge medications according to New York State law including controlled substances with DEA authorization Physical stamina manual dexterity visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities Membership in professional specialty organizations desirable Previously demonstrated ability to facilitate group processes and work cohesively andcollaboratively as member of the interdisciplinary team Evidence of excellent interpersonal skills effective communication skills creative problem solvingand excellent critical thinking skills Previous experience as a physician assistant or physician assistant fellowship experience ispreferred At least 2 years of clinical rotation in various medical surgical and other specialty areas Coordinates implementation of clinical research studies or clinical trials including patient screening enrollment and data collection Monitors and trends the cost effectiveness of the position particularly as it relates to the efficiency and performance indicators established for the service Assists in the preparation implementation and evaluation of research protocols when applicable Works collaboratively with nursing and other disciplines in the development and implementation of clinical studies within the area of expertise Uses evidence based health care literature to advise and support appropriate practice changes within the designated service Participates in the development and monitoring of patient outcomes per established practice protocols for purposes of quality and performance improvement Serves as a clinical expert and resource for the education of peers and other health professionals Maintains PA board certification Maintains annual CME requirement for re appointment and privileging Maintains current expertise in area of practice Promotes own professional growth and development in clinical role Functions as a respectful member of the health care team Participates in designated activities related to professional physician assistant practice standards Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Core Values and incorporates them into the performance of responsibilities Facilitates patients throughput and efficient process during patients admission and discharge Facilitates the continuity of care across the continuum of services e g home care other facilities appointments with MDs etc Provides consultation about the therapeutic regimen to the nursing staff responsible for the patients care in the hospital setting Works collaboratively with the attending physician to maintain timely and appropriate communication with family members house staff other disciplines and ancillary services Participates in the development and revision of interdisciplinary and hospital standards patient and family education materials as relevant to area of practice and expertise Works collaboratively with the interdisciplinary team including the attending physician to develop and implement the therapeutic plan of care for a group of patients and ensure communication with family members Plans and organizes care to meet individual patient needs and to ensure appropriate clinical resource utilization per protocols pathways and other means “Physician Assistants working at the Helen L & Martin S Kimmel Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center “Hyperbaric Center” will have additional duties assigned to them as outlined in the “Role of the Physician Assistant” policy for the Hyperbaric Center ” To qualify you must have a Physician Assistant Bachelor s Degree BA PA Current New York State Physician Assistant License NCCPA Board Certification BLs or ACLS PALS NRP Provider Neonatal Resuscitation Program NALS per delineation of privileges. Physician Assistant Lic-NYS, Ntl Com Cert Physician Asst Membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred NYU Langone Health provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Health is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Health’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $141,393.82 – $204,223.82 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. | December 20, 2013 NYU Langone Medical Center Announces $50 Million Gift to Create the New Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services YU Langone Medical Center and its longtime trustee Ronald O. Perelman, chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc., announced a $50 million gift to create the Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services (Perelman Emergency Center). The Perelman Emergency Center, expected to be completed in April 2014, will be a 22,000 square-foot state-of-the-art emergency care center located in Tisch Hospital on the Medical Center’s main campus on Manhattan’s east side. The Perelman Emergency Center more than triples the size of the former Emergency Department (ED). “We are delighted that The Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services will soon transform the way emergency care is delivered in the community, hard-hit after Superstorm Sandy caused our emergency department to close," said , dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center. “Mr. Perelman’s generous gift will allow us to provide the community with access to advanced adult and pediatric emergency services, and is central to our ability to run a 21 st century academic medical center.” The new Perelman Emergency Center is part of NYU Langone’s sweeping campus transformation designed to modernize its infrastructure in order to more efficiently and effectively meet the health care demands of today’s complex health care delivery system. Located at 570 First Avenue, it will include: A separate, dedicated entrance on 33rd Street and 1st Avenue for adult walk-in and ambulance patients; For the first time there will be an area solely dedicated to pediatric emergency services; Spacious waiting rooms and improved wayfinding to increase patient flow and enable patients and families to be more comfortable; Increase in treatment rooms designed to allow flexibility of use and to meet patients’ needs, improved patient privacy and infection control and enhanced visibility and contact between caregivers and patients; Expanded state-of-the-art imaging facilities that are fully integrated into emergency care procedures to enable faster diagnosis, including two new X-ray units and a dedicated ED ultrasound unit; and A new disposition lounge will accommodate patients as they prepare for discharge, which makes treatment areas available for new patients quicker. In addition to being an accomplished businessman, Mr. Perelman is a generous philanthropist, contributing to the arts, education, research, and Jewish causes among other areas of interest. In fact, in 2012 he was ranked #27 in the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s ranking of America’s top donors. For Mr. Perelman, the impetus behind his financial contributions is about creating a long-lasting, extraordinary impact. Mr. Perelman’s holding company, MacAndrews & Forbes, which includes Revlon, is one of the country’s largest privately-held businesses. Mr. Perelman has been deeply involved with NYU Langone for three decades. He previously provided the Ronald O. Perelman Fund to support bio-molecular medicine at NYU School of Medicine and continues to support the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU Langone. “I am very proud of my long association with NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ronald O. Perelman. “The need for a state-of-the-art emergency center is of paramount importance to the people of the City of New York and I look forward to this facility playing a crucial role in emergency patient care.” Though the original ED remains closed at this time, in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy NYU Langone immediately established an Urgent Care Center to help address the community’s need for emergency services. Though New York City Fire Department (FDNY) 9-1-1 ambulance service has not yet returned, the Urgent Care Center’s patient volumes currently equal or exceed the ED’s previous daily patient visits, signaling that the expanded and renovated space will be critical additions. In this article Need help finding a doctor? Search all doctors or call 844-698-7243. Related Articles Man Survives Widow-Maker Heart Attack Thanks to Quick Action from NYU Langone Heart Experts With any type of heart attack, but especially a widow-maker, “time is heart muscle.” February 14, 2024 New Mom Receives Lifesaving Surgery to Remove Blood Clots in Her Lungs Lung surgery and life support were both key to saving a new mother’s life. December 20, 2023 The information entered on this page will not be used to send unsolicited email, and will not be sold to a third party. 1138442_RR00100804 Physician Assistant or Nurse Practitioner – Non-invasive Cardiology – Manhattan – 10hr Days Job ID: 1138442_RR00100804 Shift: 8a-6p, 4 days/week, Monday-Friday Department: Physician Assistants, Non Invasive Cardiology (H202) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Non-invasive Cardiology. 1138318_RR00100542 Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Job ID: 1138318_RR00100542 Shift: Department: Physician Assistants, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Surgery-Hepatobiliary Division (S2044) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physician Assistant – Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. Dr. Shapiro specializes in managing melanoma, a type of cancer that not long ago came with a grim prognosis. But with recent treatment advances, the outlook for people with melanoma is now drastically improved. Dr. Shapiro is confident that this leap forward in melanoma care is a pattern that will soon be seen in other forms of cancer. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Shapiro’s Profile About Perlmutter Cancer Center Our Approach to Melanoma Our Approach to Breast Cancer Our Cancer Screening Programs Search Our Clinical Trials Phil and Paul Malenczak have a lot in common, and when they were both diagnosed with prostate cancer, they sought a center with a full range of advanced treatment options. Now they have one more thing in common: they’re both cancer survivors. Our Approach to Prostate Cancer Search Clinical Trials Dr. Ahn’s approach is to attack cancer before it presents itself. Diet, genetics, and the environment: These all have a role in causing cancer. She’s looking into specific bacteria in the microbiome related to the subsequent development of cancer. Dr. Ahn is discovering how we can provide tailored nutritional guidelines based on a person’s genetic, hormonal, or biological makeup. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Ahn’s Profile Research at Perlmutter Cancer Center Attend a Free Health Lecture Dr. Bar-Sagi is more enthusiastic than ever that current scientific research will lead to a cure for cancer. Early in her career, the scientific community didn’t even know that genes were involved in causing cancer. Now, thousands of genes have been identified, and patients are seeing more treatment success than ever before. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. Our Research Partnership with Technion Institute , is renowned for his skills in pediatric neurosurgery, which is not surprising, given his childhood fascination with the brain. Today, he is not only called on to perform the most complex pediatric brain procedures, but he connects with patients and families in what is often a lifetime connection. Dr. Jeffrey Wisoff Dr. Arena doesn’t want to know if we can make cancer go away. His question is, “how soon?” He envisions a time when treatment will not focus on surgery or chemotherapy but on therapies that unleash the body’s immune system to do the work—therapies that are just gaining traction today. We can cure cancer. In our lifetime. View Dr. Arena’s Profile About Arena Oncology on Long Island Inspired by his father’s work ethic and aspiration of becoming a physician himself, is chair of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery at NYU Langone and the co-director of the at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. A renowned heart surgeon, he performs complex surgeries on hearts as small as a walnut. Dr. Ralph S. Mosca A self-proclaimed “math geek” growing up, , was drawn to medicine to apply his talents to help people. Today, as an ear, nose, and throat surgeon, he’s adept at identifying the different needs of families, which has helped him provide thoughtful care for the children he treats. Dr. Scott Rickert , had a passion for taking things apart and reassembling them. Now as a surgeon, he uses his ability to fix things in a more meaningful way by performing challenging surgical procedures. Dr. Jason Fisher After losing both of her grandparents to cancer, Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD , pursued a career in medicine to help make a difference. Following her passion for childhood leukemia, she now leads the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology at the Dr. Elizabeth Raetz Growing up, Mary Pat Gallagher, MD , developed a love of science, which ultimately led her to a medical career as the director of NYU Langone’s . Dr. Gallagher knows that diabetes treatment can be disruptive for children and is passionate about educating not just families, but everyone who is part of a child’s life. Playing on a basketball team as a child gave Mikhail Kazachkov, MD , an understanding of teamwork. Now a renowned pediatric pulmonologist, he reinforces the value of collaboration with his multidisciplinary team, which treats conditions ranging from the most complex, chronic conditions to more common breathing issues. Dr. Mikhail Kazachkov February 18, 2015 NYU Langone and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to Forge Groundbreaking Partnership in Cancer Research Cancer Research Funded by Major Gift from Philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter I n a groundbreaking step forward to advance global collaboration in the fight against cancer, two of the world’s preeminent academic and research institutions NYU Langone Medical Center and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology formally announced a $9 million gift from philanthropists Laura and Isaac Perlmutter that will fund two major, joint research endeavors with potentially far-reaching impact in advancing cancer research. The joint program is positioned to attract additional, world-class support from institutions and individuals who are dedicated to eradicating cancer through focused and efficient research. The first $3 million of the grant will finance six cancer-focused research projects that will be conducted by teams spearheaded by co-investigators from both NYU Langone and the Technion. The remaining $6 million will be used to establish a state-of-the-art research facility on Technion’s campus in Israel that will support these and other research projects and which will have a principal focus on the emerging field of cancer metabolomics. NYU Langone is a world-renowned leader in the investigation and treatment of cancer. The Technion is one of Israel’s leading academic and research centers and a top-ranked science and technology global research university. “NYU Langone and the Technion have a shared, longstanding commitment to advancing cancer research,” said , senior vice president and vice dean for science at NYU Langone, chief science officer at NYU School of Medicine, and a principal architect of the NYU Langone-Technion partnership. “We are now at a great moment in our institutions’ illustrious histories, a point from which we can jointly leverage the talent and creativity of our researchers toward accelerating breakthroughs. The foresight and the generosity of the Perlmutters, particularly at this time of financial challenge in funding for basic research, will have tremendous impact.” “Bringing together the unique expertise of researchers from both NYU and the Technion will hopefully enable us to overcome some of the most difficult challenges in treating cancer patients,” said Technion Distinguished Professor Aaron Ciechanover, MD, D.Sc., the 2004 Nobel Prize Laureate in Chemistry, and Distinguished Research Professor and head of the David and Janet Polak Cancer and Vascular Biology Research Center at the Technion Faculty of Medicine. Internationally Renowned Researchers to Lead the Charge The latest gift from the Perlmutters coincides with two new appointments at NYU Langone and the Technion that will be integral to the partnership. Renowned cancer biologist Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD , an expert in the field of cell signal transduction, recently joined the NYU Langone faculty as director of the , and Eyal Gottlieb, PhD, a world leader in cancer metabolism, has been recruited to lead the new research facility at the Technion funded by the Perlmutter gift and spearhead joint efforts in cancer metabolomics. Dr. Neel will work closely with Dr. Ciechanover to lead the collaborative cancer research effort between the two institutions. In addition, Dr. Neel will oversee at NYU Langone the building of world-class translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics/targeted therapies and epigenetics, imaging, as well as expanded programs in clinical care, community outreach, and supportive oncology. Prior to joining NYU Langone, Dr. Neel served as Director of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Cancer Center, a position he held since 2007. Dr. Gottlieb currently serves as director of the Cancer Metabolism Research Unit at the Cancer Research UK, Beatson Institute in Glasgow, Scotland. His work principally focuses on cancer metabolism and metabolomics, combining analytical chemistry with basic cancer research to explore metabolic adaptations and vulnerabilities of cancer and with it, new potential clinical approaches for cancer treatment. Champions in the Fight Against Cancer The gift to foster the NYU Langone-Technion partnership continues the efforts of the Perlmutters to champion projects in the fight against cancer. In January 2014, they made an extraordinary gift in excess of $50 million to advance cancer research and treatment at NYU Langone. As part of that gift, NYU Langone renamed the NYU Cancer Institute a National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone. The Perlmutters both serve as members of the Board of Trustees at NYU Langone. The latest gift also recognizes the Perlmutters’ commitment to wed Israel’s strengths as a global leader in research and technological innovation with other institutions and endeavors. They note that Israeli institutions like the Technion spearhead many of the world’s top advances in medicine, science, and technology with a proven record in the development of effective cancer treatments, and that it was important to them to further these efforts through partnerships like the newly established one with NYU Langone. “Ike and I have long sought for ways to link the state of the art scientific and research advances being made in Israel with our deep commitment to NYU Langone Medical Center,” said Ms. Perlmutter in announcing the new gift. “The partnership between the Technion and NYU Langone allows us to launch a focused cancer research and treatment approach. We are confident that this collaborative effort, which avoids duplication of research initiatives and creates efficiencies among marquee donors and researchers, will lead to dramatic results in the fight against this terrible disease.” Cancer Metabolomics—A Roadmap to Breakthroughs in Diagnosis and Treatment Cancer metabolomics will be the principal focus of the research lab that will be established at the Technion with the Perlmutter gift. Metabolomics is the comprehensive study of chemical processes in cells such as the breaking down of sugars and fats. These processes are both affected by, and can influence, a variety of human diseases including cancer. Because of the significant differences in the chemical processes that occur in cancer cells in comparison to normal healthy cells, metabolomics is becoming ever more important in cancer research. Developing a comprehensive understanding of these chemical processes through metabolomics is critical both for the early detection and diagnosis of cancer as well as for developing innovative treatments. Novel imaging approaches, early detection blood tests, and new targeted drugs to fight cancer would all be facilitated with a deep and comprehensive understanding of cancer metabolomics. These types of studies integrate biology, chemistry, mathematics, and computer science, making it an ideal focal point for collaboration between a science and medical institution like NYU Langone and a technological and academic powerhouse like the Technion. First Phase of Project Launched Collaborative efforts between NYU Langone and the Technion are already underway. Under the auspices of the initial $3 million grant, a request for proposals (RFP) for cancer-focused projects was recently disseminated among key researchers at both NYU Langone and Technion. A major stipulation in the RFP is that all submitted projects have co-principal investigators representing both institutions. The RFP request follows a highly successful two-day joint workshop, held in New York City in fall 2014, at which many researchers from both NYU Langone and Technion presented updates on their work and learned of ways in which they could collaborate. Approximately six research projects will be selected with each receiving a two-year, $500,000 grant $250,000 to fund research at each site. Funding for selected projects will commence in late spring 2015. About The Technion-Israel Institute for Technology The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology is a major source of the innovation and brainpower that drives the Israeli economy, and a key to Israel’s renowned as the world’s “Start-Up Nation.” Its three Nobel Prize winners exemplify academic excellence. Technion people, ideas, and inventions make immeasurable contributions to the world including life-saving medicine, sustainable energy, computer science, water conservation, and nanotechnology. The Joan and Irwin Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a vital component of Cornell Tech, and a model for graduate applied science education that is expected to transform New York City’s economy. American Technion Society (ATS) donors provide critical support for the Technion—more than $2 billion since its inception in 1940. Based in New York City, the ATS and its network of chapters across the U.S. provide funds for scholarships, fellowships, faculty recruitment and chairs, research, buildings, laboratories, classrooms and dormitories, and more. Jim Mandler Phone: 212-404-3525 jim.mandler@nyumc.org Lisa Greiner Phone: 212-404-3532 lisa.greiner@nyumc.org Perlmutter Cancer Center Appoints Renowned Clinician–Scientist to Lead Its Transplantation & Cellular Therapy Center on Long Island Dr. Anne S. Renteria will work to build out its blood cancer programs. December 20, 2024 NYU Langone Thoracic Surgeons Using Minimally Invasive Robotic Surgery to Shorten Hospital Stays & Improve Patient Outcomes for Lung Cancer Such methods allow patients to go home 24 hours after their procedure. December 18, 2024 A rare genetic condition brought Chanelle A. Coble-Sadaphal, MD , and her twin sister to the hospital as children, but today she draws on the experience as she treats adolescents facing a host of complex problems. Dr. Coble-Sadaphal lends her expertise to her patients in their communities and their schools—always in the place they feel most comfortable. Dr. Chanelle Coble-Sadaphal sagar 2024-12-16T14:34:45+00:00 Appointment as a faculty member at NYU Langone Health is a mark of distinction awarded to those with the unique qualifications to join our community of scholars and contribute to our academic mission. Department About This author has not yet filled in any details. So far gayathri has created 0 blog entries. Joseph J. Greco, MD Joseph J. Greco, MD, is executive vice president and chief of hospital operations at , where he oversees the strategic direction and daily operations of the hospital and , as well as directing the delivery of excellence in clinical care and patient safety. Dr. Greco assumed the hospital’s leadership in 2019 and skillfully guided it through the COVID-19 pandemic, one of the most challenging periods in the hospital’s 125-year history. He has over 30 years of clinical experience and previously served as the hospital’s chief medical officer. Under Dr. Greco’s stewardship, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island introduced an advanced heart failure program, offering patients the latest clinical advances, including heart-assist devices and access to a transplant program with the fastest transplant rates in the state. The hospital is also recognized by The Joint Commission and the New York State Department of Health as a Comprehensive Stroke Center, among other noteworthy achievements. Dr. Greco serves as the chair of the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Department of Anesthesiology, and he is board-certified by the American Board of Anesthesiology. His experience also includes serving as the hospital’s chief patient safety officer, driving the introduction of quality and patient safety initiatives to the hospital long before they became standards in the medical community. In addition, he chaired key hospital committees, including the Quality Improvement and Advisory Committee and the Operating Room Committee. A resident of Garden City, New York, Dr. Greco earned his medical degree at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. His postgraduate training included an internship in internal medicine and a residency in anesthesiology at Mount Sinai, where he served as chief resident for anesthesiology. He is a member of the American Society of Anesthesia, the New York Society of Anesthesiologists, and the American Society of Professionals in Patient Safety. Annette Johnson, executive vice president and vice dean, general counsel, has served as general counsel of NYU Langone Health and its entities since 2001, when she founded the Office of General Counsel for NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU School of Medicine, after having served in the NYU Office of General Counsel from 1981. She was appointed senior vice president and general counsel for NYU Langone Health in 2007. Having grown the Office of General Counsel to its current staff of 20 in-house attorneys—each with deep expertise in their fields of practice—plus support staff in Manhattan and on Long Island, Ms. Johnson oversees all legal matters concerning NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all subsidiary entities of these corporations, including the off-shore insurance captive corporations. Under her direction, the Office of General Counsel provides legal leadership and services in corporate governance, corporate finance and bond issuance, mergers—including recent mergers with NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island; affiliation with Long Island Community Hospital; acquisitions and joint ventures; hospital regulatory, medical staff, and patient matters; all faculty and physician employment contracts; counsel and litigation management for employment and labor matters; research conduct and federal contracting and response to investigations, technology transfer licensing, and management; and management and direction of all malpractice claims and lawsuits brought against the hospital system and insured physicians. Ms. Johnson directs and oversees over 40 outside law firms that provide legal services to NYU Langone Health, including active management of high-value affirmative litigations. Under Ms. Johnson’s direction, the Office of General Counsel is highly efficient and continues to deliver excellent legal services with outside counsel expense below national benchmark for comparable corporations. In addition to her responsibilities in legal matters, Ms. Johnson has responsibility for NYU Langone’s Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (IACERM), which she founded and has led since 1998. With a staff of 33 audit and compliance professionals, under the direction of the vice president for IACERM reporting to her, Ms. Johnson oversees administration of NYU Langone’s conflicts of interest management, research integrity and research misconduct matters, HIPAA and privacy compliance, professional and hospital billing compliance, and internal audit functions and reporting. Prior to attending law school, Ms. Johnson earned a PhD in English at the University of Massachusetts. She received her JD summa cum laude from the University of Toledo, where she was valedictorian. After graduating from law school, she held a faculty and administrative appointment at the University of Toledo College of Law and served in the New York State Office of the Attorney General prior to joining NYU. She has published articles in the area of faculty tenure and school financing reform. Fritz François, MD, executive vice president and vice dean, chief of hospital operations, oversees all patient care activity on the Manhattan campus, ensuring the highest levels of quality and safety. Dr. François previously served as chief medical officer and professor in the Division of Gastroenterology in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone Health. In this role, he led transformative efforts around value-based management and guided the 2018 opening of . Dr. François also served as a frontline architect of key operational initiatives to standardize quality patient care, proactively develop patient safety risk reduction strategies, and improve patient satisfaction. Throughout his career, Dr. François has been recognized for his research and efforts to foster diversity and reduce health disparities. His work has been funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the American College of Gastroenterology, among others. His many honors include five American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Diversity Minority Research awards; the Academic Champion of Health Award from the National Medical Fellowships for his work with underserved minority students; the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Frauenthal Award for service to human health following earthquake relief efforts he led in Haiti; and the 2011 NYU Martin Luther King Jr. Humanitarian Award for embodying and exemplifying the characteristics promoted by Dr. King. Dr. François currently serves as a collaborator and advisor for the NYU Langone Institute of Excellence in Health Equity and remains committed to mentoring individuals across the professional landscape. Dr. François completed his medical degree at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, where he stayed for internship, residency, chief residency, and gastroenterology fellowship. He has over 70 peer-reviewed publications, book chapters, and presentations in his research areas of interest, which include esophageal disease, H. pylori , hepatitis C, and colorectal cancer screening in minority populations. Dafna Bar-Sagi, PhD, was named senior vice president and vice dean for science, chief scientific officer of NYU Langone Health in summer 2011, and executive vice president in 2019. In these roles, she serves as the principal strategist to advance the NYU Langone’s research enterprise. Additionally, Dr. Bar-Sagi oversees all clinical, translational, and basic science operations, graduate education, and administration for the research enterprise through the Office of Science and Research. She also manages research IT, space allocation, finance, and research compliance. Dr. Bar-Sagi is a world renowned cancer biologist whose research has had a major impact on the understanding of mechanisms that control tumor initiation and progression. The focus of her work is the Ras oncogene and its role in the regulation of cell proliferation and survival, tumor immunity, cellular metabolism, and cell-to-cell signaling. Dr. Bar-Sagi is the Saul J. Farber Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology and a professor in the Department of Medicine at NYU Langone. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her continued excellence in scientific research. Prior to joining NYU Langone in 2006 as chair of the Department of Biochemistry, she headed the Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology at the State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook. Dr. Bar-Sagi earned her undergraduate and master’s degrees from Bar-Ilan University, Israel, and her PhD from SUNY at Stony Brook. Arun Chopra, MD , had a fairly easy time in school as a child, but after he became a doctor, he realized the importance of going beyond the status quo. As director of pediatric critical care, he treats critically ill children who have complex conditions with a sense of calm to help families through a challenging time. Dr. Arun Chopra The Energy Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s plan to become a resilient and reliable medical center and a leader in by reducing our contribution to global warming as a result of clean and efficient energy use. With a new combined heat and power (CHP) plant, emergency generators, and boilers in the building, the Energy Building affords NYU Langone the capacity to be completely self-sufficient in the event of a utility power interruption, with two different sources of backup power for our critical areas. The CHP plant is also environmentally friendly. Since kicking off our current energy conservation program in 2007, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 22 percent across all of our owned properties. This new plant is bolstering our efforts, enabling us to achieve our goal of reducing emissions by 50 percent. Operating the CHP plant alone will have the same environmental impact as taking more than 4,600 cars off the road. Our Primary Electric Service The 71,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art energy facility provides the primary electric service to the campus, accommodates the anticipated growth in energy consumption, and employs CHP generation technology to produce energy that is cleaner and more economical. At its heart is an 11-megawatt cogeneration, combined cycle plant. It includes a dual-fuel fired turbine (using natural gas normally, and diesel oil as a backup) that produces 8 megawatts of power. The waste heat from the gas turbine then enters a heat recovery steam generator (HRSG), which produces about 130,000 pounds of steam per hour. This steam powers a steam turbine generator, creating an additional 3 megawatts of power. Next, the steam is distributed throughout the main campus to provide heat, hot water, sterilization, and humidification. Finally, the steam is condensed back into water and pumped into the HRSG to help create more steam. This cycle substantially reduces the need to purchase electrical power from outside sources. In addition, two back-up boilers supply steam to the campus when the gas turbine/HRSG/steam turbine system is shut down for maintenance, thus ensuring the main campus always has steam. The Energy Building also houses a 7.5-megawatt diesel-fired emergency power plant if the main system fails for any reason. The Energy Building is strategically positioned just south of the and adjacent to , hugging the FDR Service Road at the eastern boundary of the main campus. The building also houses the campus’ Department of Radiation Oncology , in a configuration that enables seamless connections between Tisch Hospital and the Kimmel Pavilion, both of which use the new radiation oncology facility. Elizabeth Golden, executive vice president for communications, marketing, government and community affairs, is responsible for advancing NYU Langone Health’s reputation and unique brand identity as one of the nation’s premier centers for excellence in clinical care, biomedical research, and medical education. As leader of the Office of Government and Community Affairs, Ms. Golden oversees engagement with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community-based organizations to create partnerships and synergies that enhance the vibrancy of the communities in which NYU Langone’s patients reside. In this role, she leads the institution’s engagement with its diverse audiences of patients, staff, and key stakeholders. This includes development and implementation of NYU Langone’s public affairs, digital engagement, internal communications, government and community affairs, and traditional and digital marketing and advertising strategies. Throughout her career, executives and senior leaders have relied on Ms. Golden’s counsel on critical communications and public affairs issues. She specializes in embedding storytelling to boost organizational thought leadership, employee engagement, and cultural transformation. A member of Fast Company’s Impact Council and named by Reuters as one of 20 Trailblazing Women in Healthcare in 2024, Ms. Golden brings decades of experience in developing holistic corporate affairs strategies in highly regulated environments, including pharmaceuticals, finance, and government. Prior to joining NYU Langone, she spent 17 years at Pfizer Inc., where she led several transformative corporate affairs initiatives involving corporate reputation, external and internal communications, and public affairs. Most recently, Ms. Golden was the vice president and chief of staff for Pfizer’s chief commercial officer and president of the global biopharmaceuticals business, where she served as a member of the leadership team. Before joining Pfizer, she worked in communications and external affairs at Columbia University, in marketing and communications at Citigroup, and as press secretary to Senator John Breaux. Ms. Golden holds a bachelor’s degree in law and society, with a minor in communications, from American University. She also holds a master’s degree in public administration specializing in financial management from NYU’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service. Dr. Andrew W. Brotman, executive vice president and vice dean for clinical affairs and strategy, chief clinical officer, is responsible for physician/hospital programmatic initiatives and ambulatory care. In these roles, he also leads the Faculty Group Practice, manages our partnerships with affiliate hospitals, including those in the NYC Health + Hospitals, and manages our faculty office complex. He is the executive sponsor of the oncology service line, and played a significant role in the opening and ongoing operation of the Clinical Cancer Center at 34th Street, now part of the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center. He also leads the cardiac and vascular service lines and other strategic clinical areas. Dr. Brotman is also a professor of psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He has been at NYU Langone Health since 1999 and was instrumental in leading the development of an infrastructure to manage the clinical enterprise over a period of significant growth. Prior to NYU Langone, Dr. Brotman was senior vice president and chief operating officer for physician practice management and network development for CareGroup in Boston. In that position, he was responsible for the operations of employed physician practices, and was one of the founders of the managed care organization known as the Physicians Services Network. Dr. Brotman was also the chief of psychiatry at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and prior to that was chief of psychiatry at the Deaconess Hospital, where he also served as president of the medical staff and later as medical director of Pathway Health, a four-hospital network. He served as interim president of Mt. Auburn Hospital in 1998. Dr. Brotman completed his psychiatry residency at Massachusetts General Hospital beginning in 1981 and had increasing levels of responsibility at that institution until 1991, when he went to Deaconess. He spent much of his time at Massachusetts General in a public-private partnership with the state, serving as director of public psychiatry for Massachusetts General and later as clinical director of the Eric Lindemann Mental Health Center. He is on the editorial boards of several journals and has more than 80 publications to his credit. Dr. Steven B. Abramson, executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, chief academic officer, is the chair of the Department of Medicine and a professor of medicine and pathology. As vice dean, Dr. Abramson oversees faculty affairs, including appointments, promotions, and tenure issues. Additionally, his office oversees undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate education, continuing medical education, precollege programs, the admissions process, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s accreditation. Dr. Abramson previously served in the Dean’s Office as associate dean for curriculum, vice dean for medical education, and associate dean for clinical research. As vice dean, he led the Task Force on Curriculum Reform, which resulted in the implementation of Curriculum for the 21st Century (C21) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. A summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Dartmouth College, Dr. Abramson earned his MD from Harvard Medical School, and was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. He arrived at NYU Langone and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue for his internship in 1974 and later served as chief resident in medicine. With training in rheumatology, Dr. Abramson joined the NYU Langone faculty in 1979 and rose to the rank of professor in 1996. In addition to his role in medical education, Dr. Abramson has experience in both basic science and clinical research in the field of inflammation and arthritis, and has published more than 200 papers on these and related topics. He is a co-editor of the journal Arthritis & Rheumatism , a former member of the Rheumatology Board of the American Board of Internal Medicine, past president of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International, and former chairman of the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Dr. Abramson was named by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) board of directors as the first chair of the ACR–FDA Drug Safety Committee. He is also a current member of the Skeletal Biology Structure and Regeneration Study Section of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Michael M. Ambrosino, MD Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education Joan F. Cangiarella, MD Senior Associate Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs Victoria C. Dinsell, MD Associate Dean for Student Affairs Brian D. Elbel, MPH, PhD Associate Dean for Research Mission Anthony J. Grieco, MD Associate Dean for Alumni Relations and Academic Events Adriana Heguy, PhD Associate Dean for Division of Advanced Research Technologies Judith S. Hochman, MD Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences Crystal Mainiero, MPA Associate Dean for Academic Planning and Innovation Georgeann McGuinness, MD Associate Dean for Mentoring and Professional Development Keith J. Micoli, PhD Associate Dean for Postdoctoral Affairs Iman Osman, MD Associate Dean for Clinical Research Strategy Jeremy I. Paul, PhD Associate Dean for Basic Science Research Operations and Regulatory Affairs Michael Poles, MD, PhD Associate Dean for Curriculum Joseph E. Ravenell, MD Associate Dean for Diversity Affairs and Inclusion Rafael Rivera, MD, MBA Associate Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid Melvin G. Rosenfeld, PhD Senior Associate Dean for Medical Education Barry P. Rosenzweig, MD Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education Verity E. Schaye, MD Assistant Dean for Education in the Clinical Sciences Michael Simberkoff, MD Associate Dean for Veterans Affairs Medical Center Erik P. Sulman, MD, PhD Assistant Dean for Physician Scientist Education Susanne Tranguch, PhD, MBA Associate Dean for Research Training and Communications Marc M. Triola, MD Associate Dean for Educational Informatics Jonathan H. Weider, BA Assistant Dean for Advanced Applications Kenneth G. Langone, Chair Founder & CEO Invemed Associates Fiona B. Druckenmiller, Co-Chair Founder FD Gallery Laurence D. Fink, Co-Chair Chairman & CEO BlackRock Roberto A. Mignone, Vice Chair Founder and Managing Partner Bridger Management Thomas S. Murphy, Jr., Vice Chair Co-Founder and Partner Crestview Trustees William R. Berkley Executive Chairman W. R. Berkley Corporation Casey Box Director of Global Strategy The Christensen Fund Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Managing Partner Accretive Susan Block Casdin Kenneth I. Chenault Chairman and Managing Director General Catalyst Evan R. Chesler, Esq. (Ex Officio) Retired Partner Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP Gary Cohn Vice Chairman IBM William J. Constantine Lori Fink Luiz Fraga Co-Founder & Co-CIO of Private Equity Gavea Investimentos Paolo Fresco Trudy Elbaum Gottesman Robert I. Grossman, MD (Ex Officio) Dean and CEO William J. Haugland Chairman and CEO Haugland Group LLC Wayne Holman, MD ’98 Founder and CEO, Ridgeback Capital Co-Founder, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics Mel Karmazin David A. Katz, Esq. Partner Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz Christina Kirby, MD Emergency Medicine Physician Martin Lipton, Esq. Stephen F. Mack Principal Mack Real Estate Group Linda G. Mills, PhD (Ex Officio) President Thomas K. Montag CEO Rubicon Carbon Deven Parekh Managing Director Insight Partners Isaac Perlmutter Laura Perlmutter Michael Rafferty President & CEO Rafferty Holdings, LLC Stephanie Rein, MD Clinical Associate Professor, Medicine Richard P. Richman Founder and Chairman The Richman Group Linda Robinson E. John Rosenwald, Jr. J.P. Morgan Chase Barry F. Schwartz Emeritus Vice Chairman MacAndrews & Forbes, Inc. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Silverstein Properties, Inc. Carla Solomon, PhD William C. Steere, Jr. Chair Emeritus Pfizer Inc. Daniel Sundheim Founder & CIO D1 Capital Partners Chandrika Tandon Chair Tandon Capital Associates Alice M. Tisch Thomas J. Tisch Four Partners Robert M. Valletta Jan T. Vilcek, MD, PhD Professor Emeritus of Microbiology Anthony Welters BlackIvy Group, LLC Overseers Stephen F. Mack, Chair Julia Arnhold Overview Capital Heather Baker, PhD Joshua Bank Executive Vice President Alloy Entertainment Turner Batty Trader Jane Street Capital Shivashish Chatterjee Co-Founder & Joint Managing Director DMI Finance Private Limited Melanie J. Clark James Dieterich Jamie Dimon JPMorgan Chase & Co. William Greenblatt Montague Street Capital Paul Tudor Jones Founder, Co-Chairman, and CIO Tudor Investment Corporation Maureen Sherry Klinsky Jimmy Levin Chief Investment Officer Sculptor Capital Management James F. McCann Founder and CEO 1-800 Flowers.com, Inc Allison Mignone Edward S. Pantzer Chairman Emeritus Pantzer Properties, Inc. Lauren Sands LES Collection Ted Segal EJS Group Henry R. Silverman CEO and Owner 54 Madison Partners Allen R. Thorpe Hellman & Friedman Sara Wechter Chief Human Resources Officer Citigroup Inc. Sharon Wee Hansjörg Wyss David Zaslav President and CEO Warner Bros. Discovery Emeritus Board Irma R. Hilton, PhD Laurence C. Leeds, Jr. Frank T. Nickell Kelso & Company Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care and Pain Medicine Andrew D. Rosenberg, MD Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Michele Pagano, MD Cell Biology Andrea H. Brand, PhD Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Jennifer Havens, MD Seth J. Orlow, MD, PhD Emergency Medicine Robert J. Femia, MD, MBD Medicine Steven Abramson, MD Microbiology Benjamin tenOever, PhD Steven L. Galetta, MD Neuroscience and Physiology Paul W. Glimcher, PhD John G. Golfinos, MD Dana R. Gossett, MD Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD Pathology Iannis Aifantis, PhD Pediatrics Population Health Lorna E. Thorpe, PhD, MPH Psychiatry Michael P. Recht, MD Rehabilitation Medicine Steven R. Flanagan, MD Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone , at the corner of 34th Street and First Avenue in Manhattan, is designed specifically to accommodate the needs of young patients and their families. It is an integral part of NYU Langone’s , which opened in June 2018. A hospital-within-a-hospital, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital features all private rooms. The objective is to create a dedicated healing environment addressing the special medical, surgical, and psychological needs of children. VIDEO: Children and families benefit from our focus on comfort, privacy, and patient safety at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street. Designed to be uniquely child-friendly and family-oriented, the new Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital provides: a separate street entrance and elevator lobby exclusive to pediatric services a pediatric procedures center, as well as dedicated pediatric acute care and intensive care units overnight accommodations for a parent, if desired, for a child’s entire hospital stay a family resource room, teen room, expressive arts room, consult rooms, and more a landscaped outdoor garden with sweeping city views NYU Langone’s plan for providing world-class patient care on its main campus hinges upon the newly built, state-of-the-art, 830,000-square-foot , alongside . The Kimmel Pavilion opened in June 2018. Together, Kimmel Pavilion and Tisch Hospital facilities offer a seamless patient experience, with the buildings directly connected on procedural and imaging floors, and on the lobby level concourse. The two facilities also share central sterilization and other support services. Planning Kimmel Pavilion from scratch allowed senior leadership at NYU Langone to rethink how the facility could best accommodate emerging technologies, innovative clinical practices, and a growing emphasis on the patient experience. Its high-efficiency operating rooms are standardized but also flexible enough to quickly adapt to specific uses as needed. The layout optimizes efficiency by moving patients around less, bringing patient care equipment to the bedside, and freeing clinical staff to spend more time caring for patients. Kimmel Pavilion offers single-bed inpatient rooms, an innovation that greatly enhances infection control, allows for a more efficient workflow for staff in each room, and can better accommodate a patient’s family and visitors. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how Kimmel Pavilion reduces its environmental impacts through design and operations 96344-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Job ID: 96344-370 Shift: Days Department: Nursing, FGP Amb Care Cobble Hill (S1818) Virtual Interview Day Every Friday – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Do you have a passion in making a difference in patients lives through quality patient care?  Come join our multispecialty teams in Long Island!  Seeking nurses with experience in Ambulatory Care. In this role, the successful candidate will support the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures. In this role, the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities, collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments, and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes. The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. Specific activities include, but are not limited to: • Provides information, counsel, and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications (including vaccination, IV therapy, oxygen administration), provides comprehensive wound care, and performs phone and in-person patient triage for clinical concerns. • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments, procedures, and anesthesia. • Assesses and interprets patient information, making treatment decisions as appropriate • Directs, supervises, and delegates to licensed practical nurses, medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Supports the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Supports key quality initiatives (e.g. MIPS, Care gap management) to impact clinical outcome measures. • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities. • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies. • Supports the missions, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of NYULH, Departments of Nursing, and FPG • Participates in coordination of on-site activities to provide patient care in a healing, humane and caring environment. • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships. • Serves as a support and resource for nursing, other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence-based practice. • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality. (NYSED, 2009) • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team.• Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification. • Engages in self-assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks, acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse. • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice. • Maintains awareness of current patient centered, evidence-based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: (physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, certified midwife, physician assistants, podiatrists) • Assessment: Assess patients, identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness, condition or disability. • Case-finding: Identify unidentified co-morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered. • Co-ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists, physical therapists, social workers, physicians, nurse practitioners, dieticians, navigators, and discharge planners. • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data. • Performs onsite testing, e.g.: POC lab testing, EKG, specimen collection (including phlebotomy), auditory & visual test, psychiatric & physical risk screening, fetal monitoring (ante partum) and non-stress test, spirometry, allergy skin testing, bladder, tb skin testing and result evaluation. • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care, provider orders, and NYSBON scope of practice. • Perform procedures, e.g.: hot & cold applications, placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances, casts, splints, suture and staple removal, urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy, insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter, ear irrigation. • Applies and removes dressings, and performs wound care • Performs patient monitoring including pre, intra, post procedure, testing, medication administration, medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: (IM, PO, SQ, ID, IV topical, inhalation, ocular, vaginal, rectal) as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice, following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies. This includes oxygen therapy. • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider (prospective) authorization in EMR. • Administers IV therapy: including blood, blood products, IV fluids, chemotherapy (with proper certification), IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices. • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines. • Ensures clinical in-baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner. • Receives, documents, and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results, follow up, and explanation to patients, as directed by provider. • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings, then notifies provider for final verification. • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider. • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi-disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed. • Identifies, through case-finding and critical analysis, patient, family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for, initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments. • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously, using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments. • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider. • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care. • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient. • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities. • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment. • Identifies barriers to optimal care, e.g. physical, cognitive, language, literacy, socioeconomic, cultural, and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly. • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes, and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care. • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes. •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES (Connect, Align, Respond, Ensure, and Sign-Off) •   Greets patients warmly and professionally, stating name and role, and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person, by phone or via electronic messaging. •    Proactively anticipates patient needs, and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model (Listen, Empathize, Apologize, Resolve, Notify), and escalates to leadership as appropriate. •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity, to improve patient experience and patient access, with appropriate leadership. (i.e. ways to optimize provider schedules, how to minimize delays, increase employee engagement, etc.) •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience. •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles. BSN. A Nursing Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York licensure is required. BLS is also required. Emergency room or critical care nursing experience and membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Membership in pertinent professional organization preferred. Fluent written and spoken English language skills necessary. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. BSN is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York, Bachelor’s degree in Nursing required, Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association, Fluent written and spoken English language skills.. ACLS certification. Membership in pertinent professional organizations. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Certification NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $106,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 88486-370 Clinical Histology Tech I (Monday – Friday 5pm to 1am) Job ID: 88486-370 Shift: Monday-Friday, 5pm to 1am Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Anatomic Pathology (H667) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Histology Tech I. VIRTUAL INTERVIEW DAY – Apply now to schedule interview. In this role, the successful candidate prepares tissue specimens for pathological examination. Specimen Embedding and Microtomy QC/QA Participation Filing of blocks and slides and slide distribution Participation in supply inventory management and ordering if applicable Proper use of LIS;Powerpath andOmni-Trax Utilizing the Cryostat for Preparation of Frozen Sections. Utilizing,maintaining, and troubleshooting all equipment; tissue processors (VIP &Peloris), Ventana Nexus, XT, andUltras, and all histology equipment. Slide coverslipping and labeling H/E and special staining and preparation of solutions NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory histotechnician, histotechnologist, technician, or technologist. Associates Degree from a relevant course of study as defined by NYS clinical laboratory licensing requirements. A highschool degree will only be accepted if the individual has the designated experience defined by NYS and has obtained their NYS license through the grandparenting pathway defined by NYS. Experience required is 6 months – 1 year in a surgical pathology laboratory. Exposure to Computer systems. Good communication skills.. Preferred Licenses: Certified Histo Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technologist-NYS Bachelors Degree. HTL(ASCP) Certification. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $83,008.00 – $105,060.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Pathology Data Associate Clinical Labs Clinical Laboratory Technologist - Microbiology Per Diem Phlebotomist NYU Langone Health has a long history of engagement with the surrounding community that dates back to the founding of in 1841. At present, NYU Langone owns and leases more than 6 million square feet throughout the 5 boroughs, with more than 2 million square feet of that on the main campus alone. The depth and breadth of its service is further strengthened by longstanding affiliations with neighboring institutions, especially NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Historically, outpatient care has been centered on the main campus between 34th and 30th Streets, as well as campus on East 17th Street. Also in close proximity to the main campus is , the largest freestanding facility of its kind in the country. There are several other NYU Langone sites clustered between 30th and 38th Streets. Other facilities outside this immediate neighborhood include the Finally, a growing portfolio of practices in the New York metropolitan region continues to expand NYU Langone’s reach, including in Brooklyn; NYU Langone Cardiovascular Associates in Queens; and on Long Island. We have also established a presence in Palm Beach County, Florida, with the NYU Langone Medical Associates—Delray Beach In operation since 1962 and the long-standing heart of NYU Langone, is undergoing a series of continual renovations that are a key component of the larger campus transformation project. Tisch Hospital’s updates are proceeding in stages, with many important projects either finished or under construction, and others yet to come. Among the highest profile renovations is the Tisch Hospital Elevator Tower, which added a new 4-car elevator bank inside a freestanding 18-story structure, connected to the hospital’s 18-story bed tower. This project included the expansion and renovation of the main lobby, which together with the tower addition has helped ease visitor access to the upper floors and dramatically improved overall foot traffic flow. The renovation also added substantial new patient and visitor amenities, both to the main lobby—including a new reception area and meditation room—and to each of the upper inpatient floors. What’s more, the new tower and lobby offer visitors a gracious entrance on the first floor and welcoming spaces on all patient floors. Additional projects included in Tisch’s refurbishment include a new clinical core lab, new vascular and interventional radiology and endoscopy suites, and expansion of the Division of Anatomic Pathology in the Department of Pathology. NYU Langone’s Science Building is a new facility encompassing more than 365,000 square feet and 10 floors of laboratory space dedicated to research, including wet laboratory space, core facilities, a new vivarium, conference spaces, and public amenities in an expansive, integrated environment. Positioned at 30th Street and the FDR Service Road, just south of the Joan and Joel Smilow Research Center, the Science Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s transformation at the southernmost end of the main campus, and provides a prominent new gateway to research and education on campus. Like other major components of the campus transformation, the new Science Building expands upon NYU Langone’s existing strengths—in this case, advanced biomedical research. The building’s design helps strategically integrate research facilities and services so that investigators, students, faculty, and clinicians can work more efficiently and collaboratively. Its laboratory floors are designed to be open, efficient, flexible, and easily adaptable with cutting-edge, shared equipment to accommodate advances in research over time. The expansive new Science Building also enables to accommodate new recruits and projected growth in funded research. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how the Science Building Vicki Match Suna, AIA, oversees strategic campus planning, design, construction, maintenance, food and nutrition, and facilities operations, as well as leasing, acquisition, and management of properties for NYU Langone Health’s real estate portfolio, which totals more than 15 million square feet and comprises over 550 clinical, research, administrative, and residential locations in the greater New York metro region, Florida, and Las Vegas. She leads the implementation of NYU Langone’s , adopting a comprehensive and consistent design approach to creating healthy environments in the healthcare setting; and to reimagining resilient and sustainable design. The effort encompasses the redevelopment of the Manhattan main campus; ; and expansion of an extensive portfolio of a mbulatory care facilities Ms. Match Suna oversaw the design and construction of the award-winning Joel and Joan Smilow Research Center in 2016, as well as the award-winning in 2018; she also oversees the ongoing transformation of Tisch Hospital . Under her leadership, the Manhattan campus became the first worldwide to receive U.S. Green Building Council Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications. She also led the campus’ recovery and resiliency efforts following Superstorm Sandy in late 2012. A registered architect and a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Ms. Match Suna previously served as a commissioner on the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, board member of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and a member of the advisory board of the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation. She currently is on the board of the New York Building Congress, and is a member of the Business Advisory Council of the Children’s Tumor Foundation and a member of the Real Estate Board of New York. In addition, Ms. Match Suna is a member of the board of trustees of Washington University in St. Louis, where she also serves as chair of the Sam Fox School of Visual Arts and Design, and as a member of Washington University’s New York Regional Cabinet. Ms. Match Suna was an honoree of the New York City Commission on the Status of Women and recipient of the Art Trek Award from the Queens Council on the Arts. In 2010, she received the Center for Architecture Award from the New York Chapter of the AIA and the Center for Architecture Foundation. She received a Sam Fox School Distinguished Alumni Award in 2014 from Washington University in St. Louis; and in 2016, the Washington University’s Founders Day Distinguished Alumni Award. Ms. Match Suna was named as one of Crain’s Notable Leaders in Real Estate in 2022. Ms. Match Suna joined NYU Langone in 1994. She was appointed senior vice president and vice dean for real estate development and facilities in 2007; and was named executive vice president in 2019. She holds a bachelor of arts and a master’s degree in architecture from Washington University in St. Louis. 99521-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men's Health Manhattan Job ID: 99521-370 Shift: M-F Flex 7a – 6p Department: Administrative/Office Support, Ambulatory/Outpatient Preston Robert Tisch Center for Mens Health Virtual Interview Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men’s Health Manhattan We have exciting opportunities available at the Center for Men’s Health in Manhattan.  This is a large multispecialty facility that services our men’s population in the areas of cardiology, dermatology, endocrinology, allergy and dermatology.  For immediate consideration, please apply online. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Faculty Group Practice Medical Assistant (35). In this role, the successful candidate The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers preparing patients and rooms for examination measuring and recording vital signs drawing blood and collecting other lab samples The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry Escorts patients to exam rooms Cleans and stocks exam rooms Measures and records patient vital signs Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy Support equality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR Promotes a positive patient experience Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues Answers phone calls Reviews and respond to in basket messages Follows up on Rx refill requests Assists physician with patient intake amp; transcribing visit into EPIC Performs other duties as needed Clinical Administrative Responsibilities; Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed nbsp; nbsp; Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth nbsp; Assists with maintaining patient flow to and from exam rooms and treatment areas Assists in escorting patients and specimens throughout the facility Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient nbsp; Communicates the functionality and purpose of MyChart to patients during intake Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit nbsp; Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy amp; procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy amp; procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history nbsp; Reviews and imports any Prepare for your Visit Outside Information and patient history prior to provider encounter Works with clinical team to ensure logbooks related to equipment specimen collection and other clinical safety measures are followed per FGP standards Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical amp; Surgical nbsp;May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Maintains patient privacy as it relates to HIPPA standards Handles appropriate patient calls and documents outcome of all patient communications as needed Refers all clinical questions/concerns to RN/Provider Assists with inbasket message management including any necessary tasks related to patient medical advice requests as per best practices Utilizes EPIC functionality to review and update patient records as well as maintain communication with peers and supervisors related to patient care Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary nbsp; Stocks exam/treatment rooms and/or supply closets with medical supplies linen and medical equipment as needed Effectively communicates as supplies need to be replenished Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy amp; guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Supports FGP Clinical Quality Management by facilitating appropriate documentation and maintenance of clinical supplies and equipment Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit nbsp; Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc nbsp; Partners with administrative and clinical personnel to complete prior authorization medication refills and referrals related to patient continuity of care Assists with prescription refill request by locating requested prescription in EMR identifying last patient visit and tasking RN LPN or Provider to evaluate set up and/or process for renewal Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician #39;s encounter with the patient List all proper diagnoses and symptoms as well as follow up instructions and prescriptions as dictated by the physician Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc Performs other duties as assigned Patient Experience and Access nbsp; Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging nbsp; Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent Completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience MA experience preferred EKG phlebotomy and venipuncture experience preferred NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $41,977.18 – $58,300.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Patient Experience Associate Administrative/Office Support Brooklyn, NY Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish - Brooklyn Medical Assistant - (FGP) *on site - West Palm Beach* West Palm Beach, FL 99837-370 Virtual Interview Day – Psychotherapist (LCSW) – Remote Opportunities Available Job ID: 99837-370 Facility:() Department: Social Work, Psychiatry-Clinical Svc (S826) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW). In this role, the successful candidate responsible for the clinical duties of a Clinical Social Worker, which are to evaluate and treat patients with psychiatric disorders.  This role can be performed in a hybrid or remote capacity. Provides psychological care to all assigned patients, including evaluation, determination of psychiatric disorder, formulation of treatment plan and all necessary documentation. Adheres to appropriate clinical documentation to ensure compliance with current standards of clinical practice, and adherence to all regulatory-accreditation standards. Responsible for liaison with other disciplines, patient families and institutions, as it pertains to assigned patients. Provides individual and group treatment either in person or via telehealth visits. Must be comfortable delivering care via telehealth. To qualify you must have a Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSWs) licensed in New York State. Five years of experience in psychotherapy. Licensed Social Worker – NYS NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $80,000.00 – $90,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Supervisor-School Behavioral Social Worker - Per Diem - Outpatient & Acute Dialysis - Mineola Social Worker - Medicine 1138165_RR00100673 Job ID: 1138165_RR00100673 Position Type: Temporary Shift: Per Diem Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Outpatient Lab (H188) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Per Diem Phlebotomist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing routine technical duties in a laboratory or patient area. Performs routine Phlebotomy in a laboratory or patient area Aware of patients frame of mind and general appearance before proceeding with venipuncture Cleans the area and secures the tourniquet Inserts the needle accurately into the vein and draws the blood properly Draws the number and types of tubes in accordance with the requisition Strictly follows departmental and standard operating procedures Completes all procedures during assigned shift Performs Quality Control Phlebotomy Procedures in the laboratory Disposes of used needles immediately after use in the appropriate containers Carries out safety and quality control procedures on a daily basis Strictly complies with isolation and sterile procedures Labels the specimens and brings them into the main processing area in a timely manner Labels all specimens accurately by affixing the computer processing label Brings STATS to appropriate departments immediately Returns specimens to verifying area when rack is filled and before breaks lunchtime and end of shift Labels Blood bank specimens properly as set by laboratory protocol High school diploma or the equivalent required One year of Phlebotomy experience performing venipunctures and finger sticks Practical knowledge of information system operations Phlebotomy Certificate and/or Certification in Medical Assisting required Appropriate interpersonal skills for interacting with patients, physicians, and other customers of the Outpatient Lab Strong verbal communication skills in English language Strong writing skills in the English language to include but not limited to legibility neatness and completeness of thought Detail oriented capable of handling stress from irregular workload and demonstrate businesslike and professional attitude at all times The phlebotomist must demonstrate expertise with the performance of the wide range of phlebotomy duties per laboratory procedure to include procedures on patients ranging from pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $33.92  Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138275_RR00100451 Clinical Laboratory Technologist – Microbiology Job ID: 1138275_RR00100451 Shift: Monday – Friday 4pm to 12am, Alternating Weekends Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Microbiology (H195) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Laboratory Technologist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing complex clinical laboratory tests on specimens for diagnostic purposes under minimal supervision. Performs routine microbiological/immunological testing of specimens on technologist level Checks specimens for accuracy and appropriate containers Correctly subcultures to specific media for optimal recovery of microbes Possesses ability to identify presence of microbes by culture antibody or other means Possesses ability to perform antibiotic susceptibilities if applicable Able to accurately interpret & record results of testing Can differentiate normal & abnormal results Reports promptly via computer or telephone Reviews results & consults appropriate reference sources when needed Consults with superiors to assist interpretation when necessary Performs Quality Control measures to ensure accuracy of results Performs laboratory tests and procedures which require technical skill and an exercise of independent judgment with minimal supervision and documents results to ensure compliance with Medical Center and regulatory requirements Applies sound technical judgment in evaluating problems and developing prompt reasonable workable alternatives which benefit the patient within established guidelines of the department Handles varying workloads while maintaining accuracy Follows approved policies and procedures in performing specific methodologies and instrument operations and follows approved policies for proper recording accuracy and legibility and reporting of all results Calls Critical Values to nursing unit immediately upon their completion and records the name of person to whom the results were given as well as the time of the call Demonstrates sufficient knowledge or expertise in dealing with scientific principles involved in the methodology performed; as well as alternative methodologies and their application to a given situation Brings unresolved problems to the attention of a supervisor/assistant supervisor s and is prepared to report on the results of initial problem investigation and discuss possible causes and solutions by presenting factual and objective data Performs additional procedures as required to ensure the quality of the laboratory testing performed; and documents this activity Performs and records periodic quality control analysis instrument function checks and preventive maintenance procedures following approved policy Correlates final patient result with known facts concerning the patients history previous results to determine goodness of fit and recognized illogical results Follows approved guidelines in approaches to problem solving and devises appropriate courses of action when patient results control values and instrument function parameters are inconsistent or invalid: including investigation of possible sources of variance/interference by taking appropriate action and/or performing additional testing as necessary to assure the accuracy of the reported patient value Maintains sufficient working supplies in order to assure the continued integrity of workstation operations Maintains up to date pending logs to ensure that all specimens have been processed accordingly Performs and documents preventive maintenance procedures and instrument function checks Performs preventive maintenance procedures at each workstation as required Documents all maintenance performed both scheduled and unscheduled Documents all required information in the appropriate section of the instrument problem log NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory Technologist Bachelor’s Degree in Clinical Laboratory Technology from a program registered by the NYS Department of Education or Bachelor’s Degree in the major of biology chemistry or physical sciences from an accredited college or university or education requirement grandfathered by the NYSOP One year experience in a clinical laboratory completion of an internship at a qualified institution is acceptable Effective Interpersonal Communication skills required. Proficient computer skills ASCP registry preferred Multitasking abilities and flexibility are a plus NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $96,670.42 – $121,542.23 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138600_RR00100957 Job ID: 1138600_RR00100957 Shift: 9:30AM – 5:30PM Monday – Friday Department: Clinical Labs, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Surgical Pathology (W6159) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Pathology Data Associate. In this role, the successful candidate Performs clerical and support activities necessary to assist in laboratory operations Serves as a communications resource and facilitates the collection and transfer of information both internally and externally Assists medical nursing and administrative staff to meet unit department and institutional goals Adheres to the department’s Standard Operating policies and procedures, Recognizes process failures and takes effective corrective action. Determines acceptable quality of requisitions and reports and logs and faxes. Notifies manger in the case of any problematic processes and audits and records in departmental computer system all specific information. Assists in the coaching, mentoring and training of new clerical accessioning staff. Maintains legal retrievals and filing and documentation for Risk Management issues with tracking of any specimensslidesblocks through computer system. Prioritizes work in an efficient manner. Appropriately accessions and organizes 2nd patient requestsconsultations2nd opinion returns. Recognizes unsafe working conditions and takes corrective action. Follows OSHA regulations for PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) such as lab coats, gloves and protective shields when in contact with blood and body fluids. Participates in unit based quality improvement initiatives. Attends and participates in staff meetings and in-services or obtains information presented. Retrieves and analyzes Anatomic Pathology reports and requisitions. Tabulates TAT, autopsy rates, clinical pathological correlations and quality assurance data. Maintains records and files accurately within regulatory compliance and computer tracking system. To qualify you must have a High School or GED 1-2 years Collecting and reporting of Blood Bank data and statistics Strong communication; both oral and written, multitasking detail orientation, organizational customer service and interpersonal skills Strong computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Excel Word PowerPoint and Outlook Knowledge of statistical computation analysis data collection and reporting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $45,860.07 – $70,553.95 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138400_RR00100611 Medical Assistant – (FGP) *on site – West Palm Beach* Job ID: 1138400_RR00100611 Facility: NYU Langone Health in Florida Shift: Monday – Friday Department: Administrative/Office Support, FGP Med Assoc West Palm Beach (F128) NYU Langone Health in Florida We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Medical Assistant in our West Palm Beach Family Group Practice (FGP). The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care.  This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers, preparing patients and rooms for examination, measuring and recording vital signs, drawing blood and collecting other lab samples. The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry. • Escorts patients to exam rooms • Cleans and stocks exam rooms • Measures and records patient vital signs • Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy • Supports quality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR • Promotes a positive patient experience • Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues • Answers phone calls • Reviews and respond to in basket messages • Follows up on Rx refill requests • Assists physician with patient intake & transcribing visit into EPIC Patient Experience and Access Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc. Clinical & Administrative Responsibilities Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy & procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy & procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history Reviews and imports any “Prepare for your Visit”  “Outside Information” and patient history prior to provider encounter Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical & Surgical  May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy & guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc. Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician’s encounter with the patient Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant.  Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience NYU Langone Florida is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Florida’s EEO policies,please 1138317_RR00100878 Social Worker – Medicine Job ID: 1138317_RR00100878 Shift: M-F, 9a-5p Department: Social Work, NYU Langone Hospitals Social Services (H295) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Medicine. In this role, the successful candidate Under the Supervision of a Social Work Supervisor provides psychosocial assessment and counseling services including discharge planning to patients as assigned by the Department of Social Work Participates in interdisciplinary planning and unit/based interdepartmental meetings when requested Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Service Standards and incorporates them into performance of duties Provides timely and effective psychosocial assessment and evaluations as required Uses clinical knowledge of psychosocial dynamics and interviewing techniques to gather social history define problems and develop a relevant treatment plan Partnering with Care Manager to ensure effective throughput Coordinates interdisciplinary information and recommendations into social work treatment plan and promotes timely post hospital/ discharge planning in the interest of patients/families Mobilizes community agencies and other support networks in the interest of patients/families Documents all social work activities in a timely manner according to departmental protocols Performs clinical duties in an independent manner with appropriate use of supervision Assists in ensuring that patients receive services in accordance with established departmental policies and procedures through review of medical records Is competent to care for patients of all age groups Regularly participates in individual/group supervision Prepares statistical documentation of work in assigned areas Demonstrates skill in presentation of psychosocial information in interdisciplinary rounds meetings and Rusk evaluation conferences Assists in the orientation of new staff or staff transferring to a new assignment When qualified i e three years post graduate SIFI eligible provides supervision to social work interns Conducts orientation patient/family groups educating and/or elaborating on information about diagnosis treatment options for post hospital care etc To qualify you must have a Masters Degree in social work or its equivalent e g a higher degree from a social work program that is registered by the New York State Education Department as qualifying for licensure from a recognized college or university program accredited by the Council on Social Work Education CSWE New York State licensure as a Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW or a New York Education Department issued limited permit. Lic Social Worker – NYS-Permit, Licensed Social Worker – NYS Previous experience in a hospital or health related organization NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $82,628.41 – $102,013.99 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138444_RR00100880 Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola Job ID: 1138444_RR00100880 Shift: Monday – Friday and Shifts Vary (Day and Evening) Department: Social Work, Dialysis, Mineola (W6127) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola. In this role, the successful candidate provides psychosocial assessments and treatment as well as consultation about patients and families to assist them and the health care team in coping with the patient’s hospitalization illness diagnosis treatment and/or life situation including emotional mental and substance abuse disorders. Provides psychosocial assessments of patients and families to identify emotional social and environmental strengths and problems related to their diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation Formulates develops and implements a plan utilizing appropriate social work interventions Documents findings plan and actions taken according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Treats and manages mental health and/or substance abuse problems Assists with screening identification management and treatment of victims of abuse neglect domestic violence rape etc Provides training and consultative services to other health care professionals Arranges procures and coordinates patient and/or family pre and post hospital or treatment needs Provides education to patients and families around issues related to adaptation to the patient s diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation May utilize crisis intervention brief and long term individual group and family therapies Provides teaching and training for students and staff from social work and other disciplines Participates in multi disciplinary health care teams and provides leadership in representing the social work perspective to and being an advocate for patients and families Maintains records and statistics according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Attends and participates in staff committee departmental institutional and other administrative meetings and continuous quality improvement efforts To qualify you must have a Master’s Degree Social Work. Current and valid New York State Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW license or Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW license. 1-2 years Social work or social work internship in a health care setting or social service agency. Solid working knowledge of social work practice relevant medical and/or legal issues that impact patient care and medical center resources to access and provide for patient care needs. Excellent communication both oral and written interpersonal assessment counseling multitasking detail orientation and organizational skills. Basic computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Word Excel and PowerPoint. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48.00 – $48.00 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1136769_RR00099109 Job ID: 1136769_RR00099109 Facility: Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Shift: Monday – Friday 9a-5p Department: Social Work, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health-Behavioral Healt (P66044) Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, a designated Level 3 Medical Home, is the largest federally qualified health center network in New York State, and the second largest in the nation. It includes eight primary care sites, 40 school-based health centers and dental clinics, four day care centers, the nation’s largest dental residency program, and New York State’s largest behavioral health program. The network also includes 12 community medicine sites providing care to disenfranchised New Yorkers, comprehensive HIV services, chemical dependency programs, and a family support center that offers educational, vocational, and other social support programs. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Supervisor-School Behavioral. In this role, the successful candidate The Supervisor of School Behavioral Health is responsible for supervising behavioral health staff working in school based health centers The supervisor will be responsible for providing in person supervision review of paperwork and consultation by phone as needed In this role the supervisor will also ensure that his or her supervisees are in compliance with OMH JCAHO and NYU policies and standards Centers with Behavioral Health Programs to assure compliance with OMH and JCAHO standards Works in cooperation and collaboration with school BH and physical health dental staff and other school personnel to ensure the highest level of care to patients Assists in audit preparation for School Health and School Behavioral Health Programs Supervises Staff Psychologist and Social Workers Works with Clinicians to ensure Clinicians maintain accuracy and completeness of required records reports and files in accordance with NYU LFHC JCAHO and SOMH standards for quality care and quality charting Complies with established NYU Lutheran Family Health Centers and departmental policies and procedures objectives e g Lateness/Absenteeism dress code non smoking safety environmental and infection control and others Attends meetings as required and participates on committees as directed Provides assistance and guidance to School Behavioral Health Clinicians in assessment and intervention to patients in crisis or patients in need of emergency assistance Participates in performance management activities Implements and adheres to policies which assure the confidentiality of client communications in accordance with HIPAA SOMH and with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of health Care Organizations JCAHO standards Completes annual performance evaluations for all supervisees Conducts chart utilization reviews and works with supervisees at all School Based Health To qualify you must have a Masters in Social Work MSW or PhD or PsyD This position demands a high degree of competence and knowledge in the practice of psychotherapy with school age children/ adolescents adults and families as well as experience in supervising social workers and/or psychologists Educational Requirements: Masters in Social Work MSW and a NYS Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW or PhD or PsyD and licensed in NYS as a Clinical Psychologist Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s network provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $66,415.19 – $110,691.98 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138465_RR00100659 Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138465_RR00100659 Shift: Monday and Wednesday 11AM-7PM. Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 9AM-5PM. Department: Administrative/Office Support, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Med-Family Phys (P68708) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Service Associate performs diversified clerical functions in Registration/Information Appointments Patient Care modules and other areas such as Cashiering and Medical Records Duties may vary depending upon the needs of the work site Maintains the security and confidentiality of patient information at all times Greet all patients family or other related individuals while maintaining excellent customer service at all times Other functions as assigned by a supervisory staff Demonstrates an awareness of and respect for coworkers/patients cultural backgrounds Provides translation assistance as needed to facilitate the patient and provider interaction Reports problems with workflow conflicts further skill training and/or other related concerns to supervisory staff Works in conjunction with the healthcare team participating in site improvement efforts accepting coverage assignments Realizes integral role as part of a healthcare team and is an active participant regarding flow patient care process issues/suggestions barriers to care and safety concerns Discharge functions in accordance with LFHC discharge polices including but not limited to: a create follow up appointments in accordance with the providers instructions b create appointment for specialty services including radiology and ensure referrals are in place c print all necessary documents for patients to take home appointment records referrals and lab/radiology forms d distribute Metro Cards when appropriate Telephone functions in accordance with LFHC telephone polices including but not limited to: a answer phones timely in a friendly customer service manner including identifying the facility s name and PSA s first name b identify the nature of the call and act appropriately c take messages if necessary d confirmation calls for upcoming appointments Electronic Health Record eHR competencies in accordance with LFHC eHR polices including but not limited to: a scanning insurance card photo ID and consents and other forms as directed b capture patient photo for the eHR c web enable all eligible patients with email addresses d facilitate patient flow by changing visit status for office visit including Check out when discharged e Failed Appts Change status to No Show and assign for recall Monitor and address Recall bins as per Failed Appointment policy Financial functions in accordance with LFHC Financial polices including but not limited to:a Insurance eligibility verification at every visit b collect Co pays Deductibles Self Pay Rates when applicable c uninsured patients Determine eligibility for other financial programs and assist with application completion d performs Cashiering tasks as assigned Registration functions in accordance with LFHC Registration polices including but not limited to: a visit registration b translation needs & documentation c verification of demographic information including Home Address Proper phone number Email address d verification of Primary Care Provider e verify Site Indicator f obtain Photo ID and Insurance ID Card g obtain consent for treatment h offer new patient packages inclusive of LFHC programs and services contact phone numbers after hour information HIPAA and advance directive information To qualify you must have a HS Diploma Required 2 years relevant experience Strong customer service and communication skills Proficient in MS Excel Word and Outlook Familiarity or prior experience with office setting Prior customer service experience Must be articulate with good interpersonal skills Must have knowledge of computer keyboard able to type a minimum of 20 words per minute Must be able to accurately enter data Willingness to devote the time required completing assigned tasks on schedule NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,947.64 – $52,966.90 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138601_RR00100095 Job ID: 1138601_RR00100095 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Shift: Flex shift Department: Administrative/Office Support, NSG-Patient Experience (L176933) NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn is a full-service teaching hospital and Level I trauma center located in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The hospital is central to a comprehensive network of affiliated ambulatory and outpatient practices, and serves as NYU Langone Health’s anchor for healthcare access, growth, and delivery in the entire borough. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about NYU Hospital – Brooklyn We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Patient Experience Associate. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Experience Associate welcomes and screens all visitors vendors patients and employees entering the hospital using excellent communication skills The Patient Experience Associate operates independently and is responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring visitor and employee screening policies are enforced Responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring all patients, visitors, vendors, and employees are properly screened as per hospital guidelines and policies. Demonstrates knowledge of NYULH current guidelines and polices related to visitor, patient, vendor, employee screening. Ensure visitor and employee screening polies are enforced by asking appropriate health screening questions. Properly takes the temperature of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Triage and escalate clinical concerns if patient fails screening to appropriate clinical departments. Collaborate and interact with the interdisciplinary team members & departments to support the needs of visitors, patients, vendors, and employees (i.e. collaborate with Security team for visitor/patient transport to Emergency Department, etc.) Ability to independently interact with visitors, vendors, patients, and employees entering the hospital in a prompt, respectful, and helpful manner through excellent communication skills. Assists with instruction/education of proper personal protective equipment (PPE) use, and provides masks to those entering facility without proper PPE. Maintains strict confidentiality related work information (in accordance with HIPPA) Cooperates and interacts with the interdisciplinary team members to escalate clinical questions and concerns of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Assists with escorting patients to their appointment/procedure if necessary Have the ability to efficiently and effectively respond to information request and ability to multi-task. Round in the units as needed, specifically targeting new admissions, greeting patients and family members and documenting interaction in iRound tool; As a member of the health care team, be visible, engaging and acts as a liaison for patients/families as needed and escalate any issues or concerns to the patient relations department; Perform other duties as assigned. To qualify you must have a REQUIREMENTS: Bachelor Degree and 2 years of customer service experience especially as it relates to clear empathic communication and the ability to quickly & effectively triage escalations Attention to detail organization and ability to navigate potentially stressful situations Must be self motivated and able to operate independently NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital- Brooklyn’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,308.39 – $50,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 100228-370 Virtual Interview Day – Sleep Technologist Job ID: 100228-370 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist. Performs other duties as assigned. Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Review history, physical information, medications, procedure request, and study protocol. Complete and verify documentation. Explain the procedure and orient the patient to the sleep center. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments, if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments, if necessary. Perform routine positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP and oxygen titration, etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations, including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and other significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (e.g. repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Assist with scoring sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Assist with scoring clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals, etc.) with center specific protocols. Assist with the generation of accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine equipment care and maintenance and inventory evaluation. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Demonstrate ability to follow direction. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Inspect and maintain sleep study related equipment and inventory. Explain the procedure and orient the patient for either in center or home sleep apnea testing. Perform patient education and instruction appropriate for home sleep apnea testing. To qualify you must have a NYS OP License and current registration as a Polysomnographic Technologist, OR, Registered Respiratory Therapist, OR Respiratory Therapy Technician competent to perform Polysomnographic Technology services. 2 years’ experience in Polysomnography or a related field. Successful completion of an accredited educational program leading to a certificate or associate degree with an emphasis in sleep technology OR Successful completion of a sleep technology program associated with a state licensed and/or a nationally accredited educational facility or equivalent experience and documented proficiency for all competencies required of a sleep technician. Certification by a nationally recognized certification board and holds either the Registered Sleep Technologist (RST), Registered Polysomnographic Technologist (RPSGT), or Sleep Disorders Specialist (SDS) credential. If you wish to view NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s EEO policies, please click here. Please click here to view the Federal “EEO is the law” poster or visit https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm for more information. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $45 – $48 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. So far shandy has created 2 blog entries. Staining Your Decking Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere. By 2024-04-02T15:57:03+00:00 January 28, 2021 Carpentry Decorating Electricity Maintenance Plumbing Services Uncategorized Comments Off on Staining Your Decking The Best Floating Shelves Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus mauris. 2021-01-28T11:54:55+00:00 on The Best Floating Shelves 2024-12-16T07:46:14+00:00 We Are Here to Help Your Career Our Internal Career Planning team is here to help you achieve your career goals. The team will guide you toward internal opportunities for discovery, advancement, and continuing success. Learn, Grow, and Achieve With Us We Have Plenty of Opportunities for You 2,495+ positions were filled by existing employees in 2023. 2135+ positions have been filled enterprise-wide by existing employees in 2024. 818+ employees attended Steps for Success events in 2023. 730+ employees have attended Steps for Success events in 2024. Steps for Success Program Keep Your Career Moving Forward The Steps for Success program is designed to help you, as a current employee, grow your career. By offering support through coaching, mentorship, workshops, and more, we’re dedicated to your development. Take the next step in your career with a team ready to advance with you. Take Your Next Step We’ll Be With You on Your Career Journey Discover how we can help you achieve your career goals. Learn Contact your Internal Career Planning Specialist to learn more about our: Career coaching & guidance Resume writing workshop Developing & advancing your career Changing your career direction Applying for a transfer Connect with a Career Planning Specialist Attend Steps for Success hosts recurring career planning events, such as virtual and in-person workshops and webinars. Register to attend an event today! See All Upcoming Events Check out current job opportunities on the SFS Career Portal. If interested, apply directly through the job posting. Login to the portal Select the Career Opportunities tab Click on Search Jobs Search Internal Jobs See Our Success Stories Jason A. Ranekka D. Gabby B. Gisella B. Himanshu T. Data Analyst NYU Langone Health offers an abundance of opportunities to grow and develop in a healthy work environment. I enjoyed using NYU Langone’s training courses in business to support my career progression, and I also utilized the Tuition assistance program to obtain a Master of Public Health. I’m proud of my work and what the organization represents to New York City and the surrounding communities. Oct 2017 Sr. Research Technician Nov 2019 Principal Research Technician June 2023 One of the many perks that come with working at NYU Langone Health is the abundant resources available to enhance one's abilities and grow your career. During my decades-long career at NYU Langone, I've had the opportunity to pursue my master's and Ph.D. degrees and have participated in numerous leadership courses offered. Every opportunity to make an impact has been a favorite moment since joining the NYU Langone Health team.  We are each a part of the whole and what you do matters, regardless of the role you play at this excellent organization. Senior Director - Infection Prevention & Control Nursing Professional  Development Specialist Your first role at NYU Langone Health is only the first step in your professional journey. NYU Langone offers many opportunities to learn and grow. In my case, the tuition assistance benefit helped me return to school for my graduate degree. I have achieved the professional accomplishments that I have because I started and maintained my career here. I now coordinate the same educational programs in my role that helped me get to where I am today. Jun 2017 Registered Nurse –  Student Extern Nov 2018 Staff Registered Nurse Feb 2022 Clinical Nurse Instructor Oct 2022 Nursing Professional Development Specialist All my life I wanted to serve my community and I am happy to know that I am part of a team that makes a difference in the lives of others. Working at NYU Langone Health has also allowed me to further my career and l've been able to use the tuition assistance benefit to pursue a master's degree in Nursing Administration. Assistant Director of  Patient Care Services Senior Accounts Payable Associate It has been such a privilege to be a part of NYU Langone Health. It's a place filled with hard work, cheerful coworkers, and supportive management.  My supervisor and manager motivated me to grow personally and professionally. The career development resources offered, such as professional development classes and programs, have greatly contributed to my growth. Apr 2021 Accounts Payable Associate 2024-12-16T07:44:25+00:00 Reach Your Full  Potential Here At NYU Langone, we believe in empowering our staff by offering a variety of career paths across multiple specialties. Whether you’re drawn to patient care, clinical research, administration, or support services, there are endless opportunities to grow and thrive within our organization. Explore Our Careers Advance Your Career With Us At NYU Langone, we have a variety of areas offering career growth opportunities where you can expand your skills and experience in a supportive and dynamic environment. Administrative and Temporary Support NYU Langone’s Administrative and Temporary Support professionals play a vital role throughout the organization. As essential team members, administrative support professionals help organize and coordinate everything from committee meetings and data analysis to interviews, payroll, and more. Explore Careers in Administrative and Temporary Support Growing your career in the Allied Health field at NYU Langone allows you to learn from a collaborative team of experts who pursue new ideas, innovate for the future, and deliver solutions that positively impact patient care. Explore Careers in Allied Health Clinical Support NYU Langone’s Clinical Support team works with our physicians and nurses to deliver the highest standard of care. Use your patient-centered skills to help us maintain this level of care, respecting the dignity of every individual we treat. Explore Careers in Clinical Support NYU Langone Faculty members make an essential contribution to our academic mission. Join us as we work to cultivate career opportunities for our physicians and scientists, recruit promising new faculty members, develop junior faculty, and attract a diverse pool of faculty talent across the organization. Explore Faculty Careers Information Technology  & Digital Our Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) team plays a pivotal role in NYU Langone’s strategic mission. Use your skills and experience to help us develop innovative solutions to support the highest quality of care and improve the entire organization’s digital experience. Explore Careers in Information Technology & Digital Leadership Professionals NYU Langone offers opportunities for leaders to learn, grow, and advance in various areas. Build your career in one of the country’s premier health systems surrounded by the best and brightest in academic administration, department administration, and hospital administration. Explore Leadership Careers Non-Clinical Professionals NYU Langone’s non-clinical professionals are essential to the efficient operation and delivery of services and play a crucial role in the smooth running of our organization. Help us continue to support our healthcare system’s ongoing expansion and success. Explore Non-Clinical Careers As a Magnet®-recognized organization, NYU Langone empowers nurses to deliver world-class and highest standards of care in a dynamic learning environment. Build a career where you have a voice and can participate in important initiatives to ensure that patients and their families are at the center of all we do. Explore Careers in Nursing Research is a top priority at NYU Langone. Our 16-story, state-of-the-art science building is home to scientists, researchers, and technicians from over 55 countries. Join them as they work together to make a real-world impact on patient outcomes. Explore Careers in Research As part of NYU Langone’s support services staff, you’ll experience different people and situations daily and work alongside colleagues from around the world. You’ll become a valued team member who works together to serve our patients and their families. Explore Careers in Support Services Today, more than ever, NYU Langone has a great story to tell. Hear from the people who come to work each day with pride, purpose, and passion. Listen to their career journey stories and how they work together to deliver the highest standard of care. Christopher P. Tatiana S. Terence H. Leeza P. Sangeetha S. Jim M. Lizette V. Tiffany M. Nurse Clinician Kimmel Pavilion Manhattan I first started my career as an Intern in Talent Acquisition.  I have now fulfilled my dream of becoming a Registered Nurse  at NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone has given me the opportunities to accomplish my career goals. July 2015 Intern in Nurse Recruitment/HR Aug 2021 Staff Nurse Senior Staff Nurse Feb 2024 Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Office Supervisor Since joining NYU Langone Health, my career progression has been remarkable. I took on different projects in collaboration with my team members, and that allowed me to expand my professional network, be exposed to new work processes, and develop new skills. I also recently got accepted to NYU Wagner's master's program for health administration and I hope to gain skills and knowledge that will enable me to move to a more advanced leadership role. I'm grateful for the opportunities NYU Langone offers to its staff. Aug 2015 FGP Assistant Nov 2015 FGP Sec | – Intake/Sched FGP Medical Secretary July 2023 FGP Office Supervisor Assistant Director - Budgets I wanted to build a career at NYU Langone Health because of the opportunity to learn and grow at one of the top healthcare organizations  in the world. There's a wealth of knowledge here. I've been able to chat  with senior leadership about professional development and career ambitions, and I was selected to participate in the Manager Leadership Program, which supported my development in my first year as a manager.  I also found the FOCUS learning offerings such as Leading With Empathy to be beneficial. I'm proud to work for a great organization with awesome leaders that I can learn from. March 2020 Manager – Finance Assistant Director – Budgets Assistant II Occupational Therapy After taking my son to several healthcare institutions for care, NYU Langone Health correctly diagnosed and ultimately treated his illness, which made me want to join this great institution. NYU Langone's unwavering dedication to making a real difference in patients' lives truly moved me and I couldn't help but feel a deep connection to its mission. Building my career here isn't just about professional growth; it's about being part of a passionate community that shares my values and aspirations. Jan 2021 Occupational Therapy Assistant Assistant I Occupational Therapy Dec 2023 Senior Research Coordinator The collaborative and supportive environment at NYU Langone Health has cultivated a sense of camaraderie that makes coming to work each day incredibly fulfilling. I am grateful for the mentorship provided by my esteemed faculty members, which has played a vital role in my professional development. NYU Langone has also provided me with incredible opportunities to learn and grow through their tuition assistance to pursue my Master of Public Health (MPH) at New York University and  in-house training curriculum. Jun 2019 Project Associate Sep 2021 Research Coordinator May 2023 Published On: January 28, 2021 1.6 min read get to know us Honesty, integrity & experience Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Donec velit neque, auctor sit amet aliquam vel, ullamcorper sit amet ligula. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Donec sollicitudin molestie malesuada. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Donec rutrum congue leo eget malesuada. Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Donec velit neque, auctor sit amet aliquam vel, ullamcorper sit amet ligula. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Donec sollicitudin molestie malesuada. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Donec rutrum congue leo eget malesuada. Nulla porttitor accumsan tincidunt. Pellentesque in ipsum id orci porta dapibus. Vestibulum ac diam sit amet quam vehicula elementum sed sit amet dui. Quisque velit nisi, pretium ut lacinia in, elementum id enim. Nulla porttitor accumsan tincidunt. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Mauris blandit aliquet elit, eget tincidunt nibh pulvinar a. Praesent sapien massa, convallis a pellentesque nec, egestas non nisi. Sed porttitor lectus nibh. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Proin eget tortor risus. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus. Vivamus magna justo, lacinia eget consectetur sed, convallis at tellus. Proin eget tortor risus. Curabitur non nulla sit amet nisl tempus convallis quis ac lectus. Quisque velit nisi, pretium ut lacinia in, elementum id enim. continue reading Related Posts 1138022_RR00098851 Job ID: 1138022_RR00098851 Shift: Monday – Friday 9:00 am – 5:00 pm Department: Hospital Administration, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Research Administrative POD #4 (S2135) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Senior Grants Specialist. The Senior Grant Specialist provides a high level of pre and post award grant support within the Research Administration POD and is responsible for working with faculty to prepare and submit grant applications Provide pre award support to faculty across the department including completing all non scientific portions of grant applications Lead budget development nbsp; Gather required documents from collaborators and subcontractor organizations as needed Enter grant into Research Navigator and work with the department and Sponsored Programs Administration to ensure the grant is submitted by the funder due date Proactively communicate application process and deadlines to Principal Investigators Assist with gathering and compiling documents for Just In Time requests Submit advance accounts and advance continuation forms Assist with award setup including re budgeting gathering revised subcontract material reviewing notice of award with PI Program Manager and Finance analyst providing salary allocation information to outside divisions/sections/departments setting up consulting agreements with Contracts ensuring subawards are executed Work with PIs to prepare and submit RPPRs in eRA commons and Research Navigator including budgeting and gathering subcontract materials Prepare and submit Research Navigator records and continuation records for non federal grants and No Cost Extensions Provide support with post award including prior approvals re budgets subcontract follow up and carryover requests Assist in maintaining biosketches and other support Serve as a resource to the research community related to sponsor requirements as well as institutional and departmental grants policy Provide peer mentorship to new grant specialists Provide trainings to new team members as needed Perform other duties as assigned nbsp; Bachelors degree in Business Health Administration or a related discipline and a minimum of three to five years relevant combination of education and experience; Experience working in a team oriented environment with ability to take initiative and work independently; Proven ability to meet deadlines and produce high quality products; Related experience in an academic research administration environment strongly preferred Thorough knowledge of pre and post award grants administration; Understands federal state and local policies governing sponsored research; Basic knowledge of accounting budgeting and finance Excellent verbal and written communication skills ability to support and work with a diverse group of faculty and staff and interpersonal and problem solving skills required; Ability to implement and interpret policies and procedures and communicate sensitive information verbally and in writing to a diverse population; Ability to assess situations and provide solutions to mitigate problems or issues during grants submission process; Demonstrated ability to work independently To qualify you must have a Minimum Qualifications:Bachelor s degree; minimum of 2 years relevant experience in a research or an academicenvironment Must include experience with scientific grants preparation Position also requires knowledge and skills in the following areas: Knowledge of grant funding policies and procedures and applicable local state federal and School regulations Ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing Knowledge of restricted fund accounting principles procedures and standards Skill in the use of personal computers and software applications including database management skills Knowledge of federal state and/or community funding sources and mechanisms Ability to analyze and interpret financial data and prepare financial reports statements and/or projections Ability to provide technical advice and information to staff Knowledge of current developments/trends in grant proposals NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $67,771.14 – $92,750 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Program Coordinator - MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund 2024-12-20T22:12:51+00:00 Inclusion Is Essential  to Our Success Inclusion is central to our mission to care, teach, and discover. We celebrate how diverse identities, communities, and roles make us a world-class patient care, education, and research institution. Our Inclusion Mission We Excel Through the Excellence of Each Other We intentionally foster a learning and work environment of inclusivity, belonging, and respect for all by relying on our four pillars: Optimizing organizational culture Promoting inclusive community Increasing equity and inclusion capacity Developing and implementing equity-related knowledge Kimberley C. Ariana C. Jessica G. Timotheus K. NYU Langone provides limitless professional experience. I am not boxed in by my job title and am offered numerous hands-on opportunities that expose me to various aspects of hospital operations. The community that NYU Langone serves is as diverse as the community of employees that work here, and it feels great to know that such a big part of my identity is nurtured, valued, and respected. Administrative Support Supervisor I was instantly attracted to the culture at NYU Langone Health. I love the fast-paced environment and how there are so many opportunities for career growth. We are constantly expanding, which helps me learn new things and meet new and interesting people with diverse backgrounds. Associate Director, FGP Professional Billing Operations I wanted to become a medical assistant because I fell in love with the medical field and wanted to be a closer part of patient care. During the NYU Langone Health Medical Assistant Program, my favorite experience was doing an externship with my colleagues at Huntington Medical Group. I felt like I was learning from the best, and I appreciated the time spent helping me understand the job. Plus, with good company, it's easy to make the job even more enjoyable! Medical Assistant Refrigeration Engineer After getting a campus tour of NYU Langone Health on my first day, I was in awe. I had never seen anything like it. Were all a part of the same big system and have a role to play, no matter how behind the scenes it might be. We're all here to help save lives and work together for the greater good. The camaraderie shown among the team made me sure that this was where I wanted to learn and grow. Jul 2021 Recruitment Practices Everyone Is Welcome At NYU Langone, we are committed to increasing diversity recruitment and retention at every level. To ensure we have the right skills to achieve our diversity recruitment aims, we require all new Talent Acquisition staff to complete the following SHRM programs: Employing Abilities at Work Certificate and Veterans at Work Certificate. We also have a diversity talent pipeline that is concerned with how Human Resources can strategically influence the hiring and development of underrepresented groups at managerial/leadership levels. In addition, we regularly attend Diversity job fairs and events both in-person and virtually. Our Positive Culture and Work Environment We have a B.READI approach to culture. This positive employee experience requires that we B.READI (Belonging, Respect, Equity, Accessibility, Diversity and Inclusion) to: Have a positive work and learning environment Interact civilly and respectfully with each other, respecting each other’s identities, roles, experiences, and contribution Have leaders who build a culture that motivates team members Have clinicians care for patients in ways that advance health equity and patient satisfaction Employee Resource Groups Together, We Can Learn and Grow Our employees have access to a robust offering of inclusion resources, including training webinars, articles, videos, and our growing number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). ERGs enable our staff members to connect with those who have similar interests, backgrounds, experiences, or needs. They are another powerful way that NYU Langone helps foster a culture where differences are valued, celebrated, and supported. NYU Langone’s ERGs include: Transgender Affinity Group Veterans Resource Group Black Leaders Employee Resource Group Asian American Native Hawaiian Pacific Islander (AANHPI) Employee Resource Group Hispanic/Latine Resource Group Women in Leadership – Hospital Operations Chapter Working Mothers Employee Resource Group 50+ Employee Resource Group Neurodiversity Employee Resource Group Caring for Aging Adults Dads Working for Healthier Communities (DWFHC) Disability Strong Partnerships Expanding Our Diversity Recruitment Reach We have expanded and enhanced our diversity recruitment efforts by partnering with local and national organizations that work with underserved groups, cater to the needs of specific groups, or work with students preparing for the workforce. Our partnerships include working with the Rusk Rehabilitation Vocational Rehab Center, The Grace Institute, the YWCA Lead Program in Brooklyn, and the Chinatown Manpower Project. These organizations understand the importance of workforce diversity and have helped us attract talent from untapped areas. We also post jobs on HBCU Connect, the largest network of students and alumni from Historically Black Colleges & Universities, and regularly work with the HBCU Awareness project. Our Awards Reflect a Commitment to Inclusion at Every Level 2024-12-31T00:03:04+00:00 Vizient, Inc., has ranked NYU Langone the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the country for three years in a row. This achievement reflects the skill of our faculty and staff and our collective commitment to excellence. Our Facilities World-Class Care Wherever It’s Needed NYU Langone provides world-class, patient-centered care at its 320+ locations throughout the New York area and in Florida, including six inpatient locations, a children’s hospital, and four emergency rooms. Also, part of NYU Langone is the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute-designated comprehensive cancer center, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. Our Health System We take great pride in all that our exceptional faculty and staff have achieved for the benefit of our patients, our students, and the world beyond. NYU Langone’s hospital network includes the following facilities where you can grow your career in an environment where world-class, patient-centered care is delivered daily. Search for jobs at our hospitals … NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island Affiliates Woodhull Medical Center Bellevue Hospital and Gouverneur Health VA NY Harbor Healthcare System Read More About Our Hospitals Read Less About Our Hospitals Located along Manhattan’s East River, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is situated along an 11-block “biomedical corridor” dedicated to the advancement of scientific discovery. Our work is guided by the promise of translational medicine and by physician-scientists who provide the intellectual foundation for highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. As home to Nobel Prize winners and… Located along Manhattan’s East River, NYU Grossman School of Medicine is situated along an 11-block “biomedical corridor” dedicated to the advancement of scientific discovery. Our work is guided by the promise of translational medicine and by physician-scientists who provide the intellectual foundation for highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. As home to Nobel Prize winners and world-renowned researchers, we have created an innovative environment worthy of the next generation of scholars and teachers with established national and international reputations. View Career Opportunities at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Read More About NYU Grossman School of Medicine Read Less About NYU Grossman School of Medicine We educate and train medical students, residents, and fellows to become exemplary physicians and visionary leaders who deliver comprehensive and equitable health care. Through innovative medical education, exceptional clinical training and integrating basic and translational scholarship with clinical, population health and health services research… We educate and train medical students, residents, and fellows to become exemplary physicians and visionary leaders who deliver comprehensive and equitable health care. Through innovative medical education, exceptional clinical training and integrating basic and translational scholarship with clinical, population health and health services research, we seek to address the primary care physician workforce shortage and prepare our medical students and graduate trainees to deliver highly-skilled, value-based, patient-centered healthcare. Learn more about NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Read More About NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Read Less About NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital proudly attends to the needs of patients of all ages with any type of musculoskeletal condition. Working at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital provides all the learning opportunities you expect from a world-class teaching hospital. You’ll also enjoy a close-knit, supportive work environment that welcomes and rewards employees who help to continually enhance our reputation for… NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital proudly attends to the needs of patients of all ages with any type of musculoskeletal condition. Working at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital provides all the learning opportunities you expect from a world-class teaching hospital. You’ll also enjoy a close-knit, supportive work environment that welcomes and rewards employees who help to continually enhance our reputation for care, compassion, and customer service. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Read More About NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Read Less About NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn was founded in 1883 to provide quality care to our neighbors. Today, we remain steadfast to this principle throughout our integrated healthcare network. Working at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn allows you to stretch yourself professionally in a teaching hospital environment. Our location offers a full-service, 450-bed teaching hospital… NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn was founded in 1883 to provide quality care to our neighbors. Today, we remain steadfast to this principle throughout our integrated healthcare network. Working at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn allows you to stretch yourself professionally in a teaching hospital environment. Our location offers a full-service, 450-bed teaching hospital and a complete range of services, including one of the busiest Emergency Departments and Level I Trauma Centers in Brooklyn. Careers are available for those ready to provide quality care to our neighbors and patients. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Read More About NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Read Less About NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island offers exceptional care in nearly every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. Growing your career here allows you to work alongside world-class professionals as you learn new skills in a pioneering hospital setting. We strive to do and be our best every day, a commitment made possible by the unwavering dedication of our talented team members, who take enormous pride in the amazing work they do… NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island offers exceptional care in nearly every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. Growing your career here allows you to work alongside world-class professionals as you learn new skills in a pioneering hospital setting. We strive to do and be our best every day, a commitment made possible by the unwavering dedication of our talented team members, who take enormous pride in the amazing work they do. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Read More About NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Read Less About NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide high-quality, affordable outpatient primary healthcare and support services to over 100,000 patients annually. As one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) networks in the nation and NCQA-designated Patient-Centered Medical Home, the health centers deliver quality care… The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide high-quality, affordable outpatient primary healthcare and support services to over 100,000 patients annually. As one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) networks in the nation and NCQA-designated Patient-Centered Medical Home, the health centers deliver quality care to those who need it most. View Career Opportunities at Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Read More About Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Read Less About Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Faculty Group Practice, Ambulatory Locations, and Cancer Center With over 300+ locations, we’re dedicated to providing world-class care in the neighborhoods where our patients live and work. We maintain exceptional outpatient facilities throughout the NYC metro area, all five boroughs, and communities in the Hudson Valley. These facilities include the Perlmutter Cancer Center, which provides state-of-the-art, research-based approaches for all types of cancer and has an expansive portfolio… With over 300+ locations, we’re dedicated to providing world-class care in the neighborhoods where our patients live and work. We maintain exceptional outpatient facilities throughout the NYC metro area, all five boroughs, and communities in the Hudson Valley. These facilities include the Perlmutter Cancer Center, which provides state-of-the-art, research-based approaches for all types of cancer and has an expansive portfolio of clinical trials to ensure patients receive the most advanced care possible. Search for jobs at any of these locations: Ambulatory Care Center Read More About These Locations Read Less About These Locations Our Patient Access Center and Billing Office in Boynton Beach, Florida offers long-term career growth and development opportunities. We serve as a remote and centralized access point supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices with appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests… Our Patient Access Center and Billing Office in Boynton Beach, Florida offers long-term career growth and development opportunities. We serve as a remote and centralized access point supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices with appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests and more. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Health in Florida Read More About NYU Langone Health in Florida Read Less About NYU Langone Health in Florida NYU Langone Health in Nevada NYU Langone has a Patient Access Center and Business Office in Las Vegas, Nevada. This office supports our expanding Faculty Group Practice network. As we grow, we’re excited to offer you opportunities that will also help your career grow. We are looking to serve as a remote and centralized point of access supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices for appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance… NYU Langone has a Patient Access Center and Business Office in Las Vegas, Nevada. This office supports our expanding Faculty Group Practice network. As we grow, we’re excited to offer you opportunities that will also help your career grow. We are looking to serve as a remote and centralized point of access supporting NYU Langone’s physician practices for appointment scheduling, billing, financial clearance, customer service, physician referrals, prescription refill requests  and more. View Career Opportunities at NYU Langone Health in Nevada Read More About NYU Langone Health in Nevada Read Less About NYU Langone Health in Nevada Christopher G. Edissa L. Verginia A. Diana W. Victor R. My motivation to build a career at NYU Langone Health comes from my parents. My mother was employed with NYU Langone as a nurse, and my father spent 15 years working as a building service supervisor. They worked at NYU Langone to improve the lives of all who entered its doors, and they helped grow the institution to what it is today. I want to have the same impact, commitment, and dedication to NYU Langone’s future growth. Technical Manager Radiology Senior Manager – Clinical Supply Chain Management NYU Langone Health’s core values and dedication to their employees motivated me to build a career here. NYU Langone is big on empowering its employees and providing many resources and tools for their success. For example, using the tuition assistance program, I’m working on my bachelor’s degree in health management. You can build a career here, and everyone will lend a hand. May 2015 Office Coordinator June 2016 Clinical Supply Chain Specialist Dec 2016 Clinical Supply Chain Associate Apr 2018 Clinical Supply Chain Coordinator Sept 2022 Tissue Compliance Specialist – Clinical Supply Chain Management Jan 2024 I enjoy my role because it allows me to be everywhere within a practice, including overseeing front-end patient flow, to ensure patients are roomed in a timely manner. Some of my core memories since joining NYU Langone Health has been with the FGP patient experience and training teams.  They really know how to keep you engaged and embody the values of the organization. NYU Langone also offers various opportunities to help grow our skillsets, such as learning courses, and this has helped me get to where I am today. Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Administrative Operations Lead I am motivated to build my career at NYU Langone because the nursing staff and leaders support my growth.  I have participated in nursing councils, collaborated on quality improvement projects, and have had the opportunity to present in educational forums. I have also been recognized for my contributions and encouraged to pursue a master's degree. In the same way, I wish to inspire others to pursue lifelong learning opportunities so that they too can make a difference in patient care. In my role, I encourage nurses to grow professionally by supporting them every step of the way. Manager, Security I have a passion for public service, and healthcare security allows me to utilize my training and experience. NYU Langone Health has provided support, resources, and opportunities to advance. My current role allows me the opportunity to provide excellent customer service, educate staff on security-related topics, provide support during difficult situations and represent the department in a positive manner. This is an organization that will encourage you and wants to see you succeed. Aug 2016 Security Officer II Mar 2019 Supervisor, Security May 2022 2024-12-17T14:07:52+00:00 Use the filters below to start a new search and find additional jobs. Your Saved Jobs There are no jobs in your cart! 2025-01-06T19:11:27+00:00 Find Out About Your Next Big  Career Opportunity Discover how we’re creating exciting opportunities for you to join our team and make an impact! Check out our upcoming recruitment events below and be sure to connect with our virtual NYU Langone Assistant to learn more! Tammy A. Joseph C. Jodi H. Samuel W. I was a Student Nurse Extern during my last year in nursing school and I was in awe of how well everyone worked together, and how much they truly cared about their patients. I knew I wanted to be a part of this amazing team, and I am still here 32 years later. In that time, I have utilized tuition assistance to obtain a Masters in Nursing Administration and used available opportunities to enrich my leadership skills and explore new avenues in my career. Nurse Manager - Surgical/Cardiac Service Administration It’s an especially exciting time to be at NYU Langone, partly because it feels like we’re standing on the edge of tomorrow. I want all patients, families, and employees to feel that too - that a small level of science fiction just became science fact, and is accessible to them. There’s a reason we have the reputation we do. We continue to be successful because our team is always willing to try and work hard. Our new Kimmel Pavilion exemplifies that hard work. Supervisor, Guest Services and Patient Relations I’m excited about everything related to Kimmel Pavilion - the space, the private rooms, the state-of-the-art equipment, and what this ultimately means for our patients and team. Our employees provide the highest care, and now they’re even better equipped to do so. We want our patients and families to feel safe, comfortable, and engaged. This brand new facility will have the most advanced technology, which gives our team a greater peace of mind, knowing we can provide that experience for our patients. Program Manager - Physical Therapy What I like most about my job is that it’s never boring. What brings the excitement are the healthcare advancements that we use in surgery, like robotics. Procedures are innovative and challenging, allowing us to learn new technologies and methods to optimize patient outcomes. In the OR, I also act as an advocate for patient safety. We all have a role to play when it comes to safety in the workplace as a whole. Everyone here genuinely cares about one another’s well being. Registered Nurse, Operating Room NYU Langone Hospital — Brooklyn 2024-12-16T10:38:26+00:00 Grow Your Career Where Excellence Thrives NYU Langone Health is a world-class medical institution with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Advance your career supported by exceptional faculty and staff. Skip Page Contents Navigation Explore Why You Should Work With Us Page Contents: Our Mission and Values Career Development Recognition Programs Graduates, Interns, & Admin Fellows Veterans Our Mission, Culture, and Values We Work Each Day With Pride and Purpose Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture, which is devoted to excellence across the organization. We reflect our culture and values in the way we work, delivering care that is patient-centered and maintains the highest standards of excellence. We are collaborative, respectful of individual dignity, and focused on the improvement of individual and system outcomes through safe and ethical practices. We Value Performance Respect Integrity Diversity Excellence We focus on our aspirations and achievements and deliver on our commitments. We collaborate, communicate, share, listen, and recognize each other's contributions. We foster a culture of the highest ethical standards, trust, and honesty. We embrace cultural diversity, inclusion, individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We are passionate about world-class patient care, education, and research. Back to Page Contents Benefits for the Life You Lead At NYU Langone, we are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and their loved ones with a comprehensive benefits and wellness package. Our benefits program is flexible and adapts to the ever-changing needs of our employees, whether it’s developing your career, starting a family, or saving for retirement. That’s why NYU Langone Health employees can choose the plans that best fit their stage of life, family situation, and more. Non-Union, Part-Time Employees Non-Union, Full-Time Employees Temp/Casual Employees Union Employees Award-Winning Benefits for Everybody Must work at least 17.5 hours/week Medical Dental Prescription Vision Commuter Benefit Program Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources, and Counseling Support) Family Care Benefits (including Emergency Back-up Care, Child Care Center Options, College Planning Resources) Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance*, Surrogacy Assistance*, and Fertility Benefits) Voluntary Benefits (including Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Life Insurance Short-Term Disability – Available to all employees except Faculty 403(b) Retirement Savings Plan – Employer contributions upon meeting a one-year waiting period. Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax ROTH basis upon hire to the IRS limit for the year. Long-Term Disability Retiree Medical Accounts Flexible Spending Account Legal Assistance Plan Employee Assistance Program Employee Recognition Programs Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days, and Cultural Heritage Day/Holidays) Educational Discounts (including tuition discounts at certain schools and book discounts) Cell Phone Provider Discounts Gym Membership Discounts Entertainment and Retail Discounts through Plum Benefits Workers’ Compensation Non-Union Employee Benefits for Full-time Employees Full-time, non-union employees regularly scheduled to work 35 hours or more per week receive all the benefits of Non-Union, Part-Time Employees as well as the following: Tuition Benefits NYU Langone Paid Family Leave Bank Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance and Surrogacy Assistance) Temp/Casual Employee Benefits Wellness Programs (including Wellbeats wellness platform and Counseling Support) 403 (b) Retirement Plan (Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year) Short-Term Disability Union Employee Benefits Some of the unions that represent employees at NYU Langone include: “Local 1199” SEIU United Healthcare Workers East, Local 1 Security Officers Union, “Local 810” International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Doctors Council SEIU, “Local 32” BJ SEIU, The Brotherhood of Security Personnel, Officers and Guards International Union (2313 7th Avenue, New York, NY 10003; Phone: (212) 281-2000), Federation of Nurses/UFT, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, Community and Social Agency Employees Union, District Council 1705, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, (“Local 205”), and The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators (“CSA”). Employees in positions that are represented by a union should consult with their specific collective bargaining agreement regarding benefits eligibility. Below are the benefits that are offered through NYU Langone: Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources and Counseling Support) Voluntary Benefits (Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Commuter Benefits 403 (b) Retirement Plans -Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year. Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days and Holidays) Employee Recognition Program Award-Winning Your Health + Well-Being at NYU Langone is the award-winning employee wellness program that provides a range of offerings to support our employees and their loved ones. The program represents multiple aspects of health, such as mental, physical, nutritional, sleep, financial, social, and preventive care, so there are supportive resources for everyone. We Invest in Your Career Success At NYU Langone, we create customized training and development programs so you can meet your goals and reach your full potential at every stage of your career. New Beginnings Orientation Programs Our New Beginnings orientation programs provide employees and managers with the information and resources they need to transition into their new roles, familiarize themselves with our academic medical center, and help them assimilate into the organization. Learning Courses and Resources We offer in-person and online learning courses and resources to help professionals enhance their critical skills and leadership capabilities. Our team provides recommendations, support, and tailored programs to ensure professional development at all levels. Leadership Development We give leaders the tools to advance, grow and lead high-performing teams. Focusing on achieving career goals, we offer resources such as building workforce relationships, adapting to changing environments, and leveraging strengths to achieve goals. Career Development Resources Our career development resources include roadmaps to grow essential competencies and skills based on employees’ desired career paths. Our Steps for Success program helps employees advance their careers by offering one-on-one coaching, workshops, and more. Career Options We offer programs to advance career progression. From educational offerings, like certificate, diploma and degree-level programs, to self-guided resources, employees can develop new skills and engage in hands-on learning experiences to advance their careers. Recognition Programs & Events We Value, Celebrate, and Support Our Employees At NYU Langone, we believe our employees are the cornerstone of our achievements and should be celebrated and appreciated for their exceptional work and commitment to providing the quality patient-centered care we deliver every day. Recognition Platform Appreciation Events & Experiences Milestone Program Employee Appreciation Our Employee Recognition Platform is a place for colleagues to openly  express their admiration for each other's hard work, unwavering commitment, and exceptional accomplishments. It’s just one of the many ways we foster a culture of appreciation at NYU Langone. We recognize that our employees' well-being extends beyond the workplace and includes their families. Our curated outings and events, from exclusive employee gatherings to family-friendly outings and experiences, provide opportunities for cherished moments beyond the office. Whether bonding with cross-functional colleagues or creating lasting memories with loved ones, we strive to cultivate a supportive community both in and out of the workplace. From their fifth to their fiftieth, our Milestone Program pays tribute to  our long-tenured employees and celebrates their years of service and dedication to our organization. To recognize our employees for their work, we celebrate Employee Appreciation Day each calendar year with an organizational-wide campaign designed to thank them for all they do. Begin Your Career Learning  From the Best We’re excited that you want to grow your career at NYU Langone. Here, you will learn from the best as you work alongside colleagues who are leaders in their fields and have skills and knowledge they are happy to share. New Graduates Interns Administrative Fellows AmeriCorps Nursing Residency As a Magnet®-recognized hospital, re-designated for the fifth time in 2024, NYU Langone is among the nation’s leaders in shaping the future of nursing. There are few better places to begin your career than here with us. The Nurse Residency Program at NYU Langone follows the Vizient/AACN curriculum and is accredited by the CCNE (Commission for Collegiate Nursing Education). The one-year program is designed to promote professional practice by building specific competencies, critical thinking skills, and leadership abilities through educational activities during the first year of practice. All new graduate baccalaureate-prepared nurses participate in the program. After being oriented to their specific clinical unit, they participate in professional development and clinical seminars while receiving support and mentorship to promote organizational engagement. Master of Science in Clinical Research Clinical Research is a component of healthcare science that focuses on the safety and efficacy of medications, diagnostics, and medical treatments. With over 900 clinical trials currently being conducted at NYU Langone, there is no better time to further your career in clinical research. A 30-credit Master of Science in Clinical Research is offered through the NYU College of Dentistry. This unique program provides training in clinical research methodology, epidemiology and biostatistics, ethical and regulatory principles, and evidence-based healthcare. Please refer to our MS in Clinical Research page for program details. Whether you wish to pursue a position in direct patient care or another area such as management, information technology, research, or other disciplines, NYU Langone can offer several internship opportunities to support your career goals. Interns for Credit Program Our current intern partnerships include St John’s University, Rutgers University, SUNY Downstate, and UNC Charlotte. To participate in our Interns for Credit Program, students must: Be eligible to earn college credit Have an internship partnership program established and approved by both their school and NYU Langone Work a minimum number of hours that will vary based on NYU Langone department and school program requirements Have excellent communication, interpersonal, and organizational skills Possess PC proficiency and other skills dependent upon the department Health Career Opportunity Program This program consists of three, four-week internships that provide students with hands-on clinical experience and exposure to a variety of healthcare professions such as Rehabilitation Therapy, Radiology, Advanced Practice, Pharmacy, Clinical Nutrition and Food Services, Nursing, and other vital roles within the health system. Learn More About This Internship Student Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. During non-summer months, the student intern can work a maximum of 17 hours per week. Student Research Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. Functions performed must be related to their professional course of study or specialty field. Vocational Trainees NYU Langone’s Rusk Vocational Rehabilitation department helps individuals with disabilities find employment in the competitive marketplace through innovative programs and services. Through  this training program, individuals can gain valuable work experience and develop job-related skills  and competencies. Learn More About Vocational Rehabilitation Services Non-Traditional Volunteers Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) NYU Langone Health’s Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry has exciting internship opportunities. Internships are available for undergraduates from any NYU school or college in NYU Langone’s Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry as part of a minor in child and adolescent mental health studies (CAMS). Learn More About Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) Administrative Fellowship NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, with a mission to serve, teach, and discover through excellence in patient care, education, and research. To ensure the continuation of exceptional administrative service and practices that support those contributions, NYU Langone has a dedicated Administrative Fellowship Program. Further information regarding NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship program can be found below. Any additional questions can be directed to adminfellow@nyulangone.org. NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program has been in place since 1988. It has expanded to include fellowship positions at the following NYU Langone hospitals in the system: The Tisch/Kimmel Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Program Structure NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship is a one- or two-year, full-time, salaried program. The Fellowship offers on-the-job training in the skills and responsibilities required of a hospital administrator in a major academic medical center. As a Fellow, you will be placed at the center of NYU Langone’s hospital operations and work alongside the institution’s leaders and innovators. A feature that distinguishes our program is that Fellows can tailor and define their experiences through the variety of projects that they work on during their time with NYU Langone. As part of this program, you will learn by assuming increasing levels of responsibility and become involved with a broad range of operational issues, personnel, and processes while being precepted by senior-level administrators. The Administrative Fellowship is project-based in nature. Activities may include but are not limited to: Administrator on-call duties Compliance and regulatory assessment Financial decisions and budget review Operational processes and workflow analysis Policy evaluation and procedure development Program design and implementation Project management Data analysis and outcomes monitoring During the first months of the Fellowship, Fellows will meet with their respective campus leaders and the Health System’s Senior Leadership to become oriented to hospital operations as well as the function and structure of the organization. Fellows then become fully immersed; they can seek out projects in personal areas of interest. Examples of recent projects include: Developing business plans and coordinating the opening of new outpatient facilities Optimizing efficiencies in the emergency department Reducing hospital-acquired conditions across patient care units Coordinating change management initiatives within ancillary and support services Implementing High-Reliability processes in patient care units Developing staffing models for clinical units and departments Application Process/Requirements The application deadline for the 2025-2026 Administrative Fellowship will be in Fall 2024. Applicants are required to graduate from an accredited healthcare management program (MHA, MHSA, MPH, MPA, or MBA program with a focus on healthcare administration) by the beginning of the fellowship in July 2025. All applications should be submitted electronically through the National Administrative Fellowship Centralized Application Service (NAFCAS). Applications will be available at the beginning of June 2024 at the following link: nafcas.liaisoncas.com. Any applications submitted after the NAFCAS deadline will not be considered. NYU Langone does not sponsor work visas for administrative fellowship positions. Application Requirements include the following: Required application portfolio materials include: Current Resume Official Graduate School Transcript (Visit the “Academic History” quadrant to submit colleges attended and to download the Transcript Request Form for your registrar’s office. Transcripts should be sent directly from your registrar’s office to NAFCAS.) Three (3) Letters of Recommendation (to be requested in the “Supporting Information” quadrant): (1) Academic, (1) Professional, and (1) Other (academic, professional, or letter from your program director) Two essays (maximum 300 words each) Finalists will be invited to interview with senior leadership. NYU Langone is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. Current Fellows Sophia Silverman (2023-Present) Graduate School: University of Michigan Hometown: Royal Oak, Michigan Jasmine Bar (2023-Present) Graduate School: New York University Hometown: Briarcliff, NY Helen Zhuo (2023-Present) Graduate School: Yale University Hometown: Queens, NY Eyob Teklesenbet (2024-Present) Graduate School: University of Missouri Hometown: Columbia, MO Ezra Affoumado (2024-Present) Hometown: San Francisco, CA Former Fellows Administrative Fellow Graduate School Term Current Position at NYUL Isabella Harnick Cornell University 2022-2024 Operations Manager, Hospital Operations, Women and Children’s Services T. Nash Georgetown University Project Manager, Beyond Bridges Julia Stockman University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 2022-2023 N/A Ivy Xiang Jonathan Novak University of Texas Health Science Center Business Manager, Perioperative Services Julie Livingstone Project Manager, Hospital Operations & Analytics Garrett Romines University of Missouri 2022-2022 Business Manager, Ambulatory Care Services Anjana Speedhar Project Manager, Perlmutter Cancer Center Lynn Nguyen Maira Undavalli University of Pittsburgh Tiffany Kang John Amory 2018-2020 Manager, Hospital Operations Emilee Warner 2019-2020 Beining Niu Marissa Wiegner Tulane University Assistant Director, Emergency Services – Cobble Hill Delvene Gill 2018-2019 Andrew Munfakh University of Michigan 2017-2018 Director, Comprehensive Transfer Center and Patient Flow Operations Annette Rabinovich 2016-2018 Kara Dimon For more information about NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program and to learn about current and former members, please email us at AmeriCorps at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone AmeriCorps is a federal program for individuals who commit their time and skills to helping people and communities around America. Through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s partnership with the program, we can offer full-time, short-term volunteer assignments to individuals interested in providing support to their community while earning a living stipend now and scholarship money for the future. During this assignment, you can earn valuable experience with a world-renowned healthcare organization while helping people in your neighborhood. The organizational and problem-solving skills you’ll develop during this experience will help you in any career path you choose. How to Apply To learn more about the opportunities available and how you can benefit from being part of this program, connect with us today. Please send your resume/letter of interest to americorps@nyulangone.org Applicants must be at least 18 years of age and a US citizen or permanent resident. Read more information about the Check & Connect Mentor position. We Are Committed to Supporting Those Who Served At NYU Langone, we understand and appreciate the unique skills and life experiences ex-service members can bring to a role. That’s why we’ve dedicated ourselves to creating new programs for the veteran community–providing social support and vital new job opportunities. Programs like The Cohen Family Clinic provide free, high-quality, integrated mental healthcare to veterans and their families. Our Veteran Resource Group gives veterans an opportunity to support each other through initiatives such as our veteran buddy program to aid new veteran hires and give back to the veteran community by participating in charitable and civic events such as the Tunnels to Towers 5k and the New York City Veterans Day Parade. Veterans can also participate in our Monthly Virtual Chats and Veterans Buddy Program, which guides veterans who may be unsure of where to start in their new life  as civilians. NYU Langone and FourBlock have formed a partnership to match Veteran candidates to job opportunities with NYU Langone. FourBlock is a non-profit organization supporting returning service members transitioning from military service to meaningful civilian careers. Their Career Readiness Program, taught by corporate executives in major cities across the U.S., now serves more than 600 transitioning veterans annually. Our Badges of Honor With nine of our clinical specialties among the top five in the nation, 600 physicians recognized as leading doctors in their fields, and over 300 outpatient locations across the New York area and Florida, our renowned, world-class medical service is highly decorated. Similarly, we are proud to share we receive badges of distinction every year for the work we do to support our veteran workforce every day. Hear From Our Veterans Felix L. Dr. Benjamin J. S. David S. Terry L. NYU Langone Health is one of the best places I have worked. A lot of the skills I developed in the Navy transferred over to the facilities side of healthcare. Our leadership is constantly striving to be the best, which motivates me to be better. They really believe in the people they have here and it’s very military friendly.  We want to see our colleagues succeed. We take care  of our own. Facilities Operations Manager My experience serving in the military helped shape how I care for patients today. It played a huge role in my development, both personally and professionally. I know my experience is from many years ago, but I enjoy the opportunity to help other veterans here at NYU Langone Health. Menas S. Gregory, Clinical Psychiatrist I'm a 9-year veteran at the main campus Security Department here at NYU Langone Health. As a 22-year military veteran between active duty and Army National Guard, I have found that a strong common denominator one can link is camaraderie and teamwork. Departments that work together are able to accomplish the mission of providing world-class service and support to our patients. This is who we are, and this is what we do. As in the military, we are proud to serve. Manager-Security I work in the psychiatry department. I just made my 20th year as an NYU employee. I spent 15 of those years doing research for NYU at the Veterans Hospital, working with brilliant minds. It’s easy to say that both the NYU community and the VA community bring out the best in people. If you share your contact information with NYU Langone Health, we may contact you about your healthcare by email, text message, or phone call. This communication may include appointment reminders; sensitive or identifiable information about your condition, diagnosis, or treatment; payment-related messages; quality improvement communications; patient portal–related messages; and other similar types of messages. Email and text message may be unsecure and unencrypted forms of communication. Standard message and data rates may apply for each text message, and communication frequency varies. You can text HELP or STOP at any time. Phone calls may use dialing equipment such as artificial or prerecorded voice technology, or automated telephone dialing systems. You can change your communications preferences or opt out of communications at any time in your account or by talking to your doctor’s office. NYU Langone Health’s Notice of Privacy Practices describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. Notice of Privacy Policy Acknowledgment Notice of Privacy Practices in Other Languages Arabic (العربية) Bengali (বাংলা) Chinese (中文) Creole (kreol) Greek (ελληνικά) Italian (Italiano) Korean (한국의) Polish (Polski) Portugese (Português) Russian (Pусский) Spanish (Español) Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form in Other Languages Albanian (Shqiptarëve) French (Français) Tagalog (Tagalog) Urdu (اُردُو) Yiddish (ייִדיש) It is the policy of NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone do not exclude from participation, deny benefits to, or engage in discrimination against any person employed or seeking employment on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively such as: Qualified sign language interpreters Written information in various formats including, but not limited to, large print documents If you speak a language other than English, language assistance services are available to you free of charge. These services include: Qualified interpreters Information written in other languages ATENCIÓN: si habla español, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística. 注意：如果您使用中文，您可以免費獲得語言援助服務。 ВНИМАНИЕ: Если вы говорите на русском языке, то вам доступны бесплатные услуги перевода. ATANSYON: Si ou pale Kreyòl Ayisyen, gen sèvis èd pou lang ki disponib gratis pou ou. 주의: 한국어를 사용하시는 경우, 언어 지원 서비스를 무료로 이용하실 수 있습니다. ATTENZIONE: In caso la lingua parlata sia l’italiano, sono disponibili servizi di assistenza linguistica gratuiti. אויפמערקזאם: אויב איר רעדט אידיש, עס זענען פארהאן שפראך הילף־דינסטן פאר אייך אומזיסט. মনোযোগ দিন: আপনি যদি বাংলায় কথা বলেন, তাহলে ভাষা সহায়তা পরিষেবাগুলি, বিনামূল্যে আপনার জন্য উপলব্ধ আছে। UWAGA: Jeżeli mówisz po polsku, możesz skorzystać z bezpłatnej pomocy językowej. ملحوظة: إذا كنت تتحدث العربية، فإن خدمات المساعدة اللغوبة متاحة لك بالمجان ATTENTION : Si vous parlez français, des services d’aide linguistique vous sont proposés gratuitement. توجہ دیں: اگر آپ اردو بولتے ہیں تو آپ کو زبان سے متعلق مدد کی خدمات مفت دستیاب ہیں۔ PAUNAWA: Kung nagsasalita ka ng Tagalog, maaari kang gumamit ng mga serbisyong tulong sa wika nang walang bayad. ΠΡΟΣΟΧΗ: Αν μιλάτε ελληνικά, στη διάθεσή σας βρίσκονται υπηρεσίες γλωσσικής υποστήριξης, οι οποίες παρέχονται δωρεάν. KUJDES: Nëse flitni shqip, për ju ka në dispozicion shërbime të asistencës gjuhësore, pa pagesë. For more information about these free services or for assistance at NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, please call: NYU Langone 34th Street and all ambulatory sites: NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital: NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone: If you believe that NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have failed to provide these services or discriminated against you in another way, you can file a grievance by contacting the following: NYU Langone 34th Street and Ambulatory Sites Patient Relations Director 212-263-7085 545 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016 patientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Patient Experience Director 646-754-9753 301 East 17th Street, New York, NY 10003 hjdpatientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Patient Experience Manager 347-764-1998 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 patientrelationlutheran@nyumc.org If you need help filing a grievance, the contacts above are also available to help you. A civil rights complaint can also be filed with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal ; by phone at 1-800-368-1019 ; or by mail at: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW, Room 509F, HHH Building, Washington, D.C. 20201. Complaint forms are available on the HHS website The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management’s Hospital Compliance team supports NYU Langone Health’s faculty, administration, and staff in identifying and mitigating legal and compliance risks associated with billing, coding, and reimbursement for hospital-based inpatient and outpatient services. Hospital Compliance conducts billing and documentation-focused reviews throughout NYU Langone Hospitals. The reviews include, but are not limited to, diagnosis coding, MS-DRG assignment, CPT code and HCPCS procedure codes assignment, modifier usage, and Facility Evaluation and Management services. Hospital Compliance also provides group and individual training and education on topics related to billing, coding and documentation upon department request, or if there is a need, identified through internal-focused reviews. 1138614_RR00100778 Job ID: 1138614_RR00100778 Shift: Monday to Friday; 9:00AM – 5:00PM Surgery – C-STAR (S2083) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Data Analyst. In this role, the successful candidate designs and performs statistical analyses under the supervision of the Center of Surgical and Transplant Applied Research C Star leadership team. Analyze clinical data using machine learning techniques to support research outcomes. Develop and maintain models using frameworks like PyTorch or TensorFlow, ensuring they are suitable for handling large-scale datasets. Apply natural language processing methods to interpret and analyze medical texts and patient data. Collaborate with research teams to design and implement models that address specific research questions. Continuously update and refine models based on new research findings and emerging data. Assist in preparing research papers and presentations by providing data-driven insights and analysis. Participate in research meetings and contribute to discussions on methodology and results interpretation. Ensure compliance with data privacy and protection guidelines when handling sensitive medical data. Contribute original thoughts, hypotheses, and analysis to write reports, abstracts, and manuscripts under faculty supervision Support grant proposal submissions and support funder reports for NIH funded Liaise with senior researchers at other institutions to conduct analyses on behalf of national scientific committees Prepare interim reports to summarize ongoing cohort studies for principal investigators, study staff, and data safety and monitoring boards Under faculty supervision, design analytical strategies research proposals and draft statistical analysis plans for grants Performs miscellaneous job duties as assigned Bachelor’s degree in a related discipline (computer science, mathematics, electrical engineering, or related discipline) 0-1 years working experience Practical experience in natural language processing (NLP) and analyzing clinical data. Strong computational and programming skills Familiarity with advanced machine learning and deep learning applied to large datasets. Competence in using machine learning frameworks such as PyTorch or TensorFlow. Understanding of representation models, multi-modal models, and self-supervised learning. Open to candidates with foundational skills in machine learning and data analysis, even if not all advanced criteria are met Strong quantitative aptitude, desire to learn new skills  and information, and ability to interpret complex analytic quantitative information; Strong attention to detail Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, flexibility, and the ability to thrive in a fast-paced, energetic, highly creative, entrepreneurial environment Masters degree in a related discipline computer science mathematics electrical engineering or related discipline Excellent written and verbal communication skills Excellent data visualization skills NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350.00 – $85,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1137803_RR00100430 Job ID: 1137803_RR00100430 Shift: 07:00 AM – 07:30 PM, (3) Flex Days Department: Polysomnography, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Sleep Laboratory (W6156) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Polysomnography (Sleep) Technologist, (10K Sign-On-Bonus), NYU Langone Sleep Center, Garden City. In this role, the successful Polysomnographic Technologist works under the general supervision of the Medical Director Administrative Director and Supervisors performing diagnostic testing therapeutic services patient care and education They perform technical duties in conjunction with the operation and maintenance of polysomnographic equipment including but not limited to acquisition scoring and report generation. Demonstrates the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment assessment and education of neonatal pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric patients. Explains test procedures to the patient. Shows patient to room orients the patient to the facility amenities educates the patient on testing procedures and completes patient registration using the electronic medical record system. Explains the modality and function of positive air pressure treatment Performs mask fittings, pressure acclimatization and titrations on CPAP BPAP and ASV. Performs nerve stimulator optimization studies. Selects the appropriate equipment calibrates for testing to determine proper functioning and makes adjustments, if necessary. Cleans equipment according to manufacturer and facility standards. Sets up equipment for next use. Replaces electrodes and sensors shown to be in disrepair. Maintains neat and organized workspaces. Notifies management of the need to repair or replace defective equipment and sensors. Attempts troubleshooting of equipment malfunctions. Contacts appropriate vendor or MCIT support. Documents equipment malfunctions in log. Alerts management to improperly functioning equipment or levels of supplies. Measures patients and applies electrodes and sensors according to the 10/20 system and all applicable AASM and facility standards. Stays alert and involved with recordings recognizes any aberrant physiological activity and performs needed interventions in a timely manner. Notifies supervisor and/or physician as indicated to any patient health or practical concerns. Fully documents all aberrant activity. Promptly answers patient calls for the restroom and other patient comfort care needs. Assists patient in unhooking the head box and ensuring patient can safely ambulate to the restroom adjusting wires and room lighting, as required. Maintains artifact free bioelectric signals. Corrects artifact as needed by reapplying repositioning or replacing wires. Performs required computer related procedures Initiates biological recording. Initiates video recording Monitors recording overnight ensuring adequate recording quality Manipulates the video focus and zoom to ensure the patient’s entire body are visible. Performs bio calibrations and impedance checks at the beginning and end of the recording. Thoroughly documents patient status and activities in the study log as prompted as clinically indicated and in the patient summary. Properly identifies studies that may need prioritized scoring interpretation due to the ordering providers requests and emergent conditions that arise during the study. Properly indicates prioritization in the study and notifies relevant scoring staff management fellows and providers, as needed. Follows the AASM and facility procedural protocols for MSLT MWT PSG PAP HSAT and Actigraphy studies, as ordered Educates patients on the use of home sleep testing and actigraphy devices. Provides remote technical support to patients using the devices at home. Demonstrates the knowledge and skills necessary to perform portable monitoring equipment preparation and data download. Obtains 10 sleep continuing education credits each year and completes required monthly interscorer reliability modules. Scores sleep studies according to the AASM Scoring Manual and facility protocols. Generates the appropriate technical report. Adheres to all Joint Commission and Facility Patient Safety Standards. Maintains current BLS certifications RPSGT State License and attends the annual mandatory CPR Drill. Completes all hospital and departmental mandated ongoing training. Stocks organizes and assists in maintaining inventory of clinical supplies. Performs other duties as assigned and as appropriate to shift workflow. To qualify, you must have Registered Polysomnographic Technologist RPSGT Certification within 12 months of date of hire. Current NYS Polysomnographic Technologist.  Authorization or NYS Respiratory Therapist license,  Current AHA Basic Life Support BLS Certification. Excellent communication both oral and written strong interpersonal skills. Basic computer skill, required. Two (2) years experience working as a Polysomnographic Technologist and an Associate’s D egree or higher in a healthcare related field is preferred. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $102,449.848 – $111,955.504 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Sleep Technologist II, full time 1137156_RR00098165 Job ID: 1137156_RR00098165 Shift: Monday – Friday, 9AM – 5PM Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, Ambulatory Care Center Ambulatory/Outpatient We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Program Manager, Speech Language Pathology. In this role, the successful candidate The Program Manager of Speech Language Pathology SLP Ambulatory Care Center will be responsible for the management and coordination of all practices for the SLP department This position includes clinical and administrative oversight of operations regarding service delivery monitoring of site OTS budget requests and ongoing supervision for all direct patient care staff and students assigned to the service; provision of direct patient care activities as indicated; and evaluation of the performance of the staff using reliable and valid standards of performance e g reviewing productivity patient access and monitoring number and types of patient contacts This position will be responsible for site specific compliance related issues daily operations and related workflow projects to enhance program efficiency and service delivery Clinical direction will be supported by the Director of the SLP department The Program Manager will also be responsible for keeping the Site Director informed of all relevant updates both clinically and operationally Plans develops organizes and monitors all SLP activities Actively participates in personnel recommendations through active involvement in interviewing Engages candidates in purposeful and valuable dialogue during interview process Reviews and assists with the preparation of reports and interpretation of statistical data for effective use assistance with preparation of budgetary planning when requested and overall departmental decision making Responsible for all timekeeping and payroll processes for full time and per diem SLP staff Is responsible for design implementation and maintenance of electronic documentation system workflow and templates as they pertain to SLP Is responsible for maintaining audits according to regulatory requirements set by the hospital compliance office Exhibits ancillary SLP leadership in regards to other department initiatives including student program department research and representation of necessary leadership in the absence of the Director Exhibits a high level of initiation in regards to program development and performance improvement projects for the SLP units Plans reviews and monitors referrals for relevance and timeliness of service delivery Meets with key personnel of the service and the institution as indicated to promote most effective services Functions as liaison and resource with the inpatient interdisciplinary team on the inpatient service Confers with physicians and other intra disciplinary staff regarding patient care Displays and exhibits appropriate levels of positive communication in regards to staff and colleagues in order to reinforce individual growth among staff and colleagues Regulatory compliance/quality assurance: responsible for ensuring compliance with regulations for SLP services Assists units and SLP department in maintaining compliance in all regulatory requirements including CARF JACHO and DOH Staff productivity/operating budget: assists in the control of SLP hospital costs by seeking the most effective and efficient mechanisms of performing functions Monitors accuracy of charge entries and creates appropriate mechanisms for the use of support staff for ancillary IP duties Works with the Site Director on optimal staff utilization in conjunction with hospital labor productivity processes Produces the necessary IP quantitative data i e volumes of visits staff productivity and patient satisfaction Performs effective objective and detailed analysis for effective use and decision making Able to summarize this information into a tangible format to assist management team in decision making Management and supervision of all clinical and support staff in all programs Orientates and participates in all staff clinical training in designated units and programs Performs these activities with diligence and thoroughness in order to facilitate staff learning To qualify you must have a Masters degree in SLP from an accredited institution Current New York State license Certification of Clinical Competence in Speech Language Pathology Active ASHA membership At least seven years of experience in a management position including a minimum of two years of supervisory experience Strong background in clinical program operations and program development Strong and proficient interpersonal and communication skills secondary to significant interactions with departmental administrators and medical staff Demonstrates proficiency in skills required to treat assigned patient populations and clinical oversight. Speech Pathologist Lic-NYS, ASHA Cert NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $62,400.00 – $162,649.75 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Speech Pathologist - Brooklyn Physical Therapist I - Brooklyn Rehabilitation Aide*, Physical Therapy (Part Time 22.5 hrs per week) / Hospital 1137015_RR00099046 Faculty Group Practice Senior Ultrasound Tech – Manhattan (35) Job ID: 1137015_RR00099046 Shift: M-F; 8AM – 4PM Department: Allied Health, IBD Center (S1995) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Faculty Group Practice Senior Ultrasound Tech (35). In this role, the successful candidate In this role the successful candidate will be responsible for performing diagnostic sonographic examinations utilizing ultrasonic equipment in various modes and techniques to locate evaluate and record pertinent anatomical pathological and functional data Operates ultrasound equipment to make quality images; performs studies in required modalities Provides training guidance to Ultrasound Technology students Provides for Patient comfort and arranges equipment for procedure Prepares equipment and supplies according to established departmental procedures Interacts with patients by identifying self to patient and verifies the identity of the patient by checking the patients ID bracelet or verbal acknowledgement by patient Explains the procedure and equipment to the patient clearly Provides for patient privacy at all times Maintains equipment in proper functioning order Cleans and prepares equipment of patient application Sterilizes equipment after each isolation patient in accordance with nursing and departmental policies Perform predetermined preventative maintenance to ensure equipment is operating efficiently Performing the ultrasound and ensuring the transducer probe is capturing images correctly Evaluating the images for their quality and interpreting what the image captured Presenting images and preliminary findings to physicians and the healthcare team Maintaining patient records and adding medical notes related to the ultrasound procedure Understands and utilizes imaging techniques for intestinal ultrasound for inflammatory bowel disease To qualify you must have a Minimum Qualifications:Associate s Degree Two years of college and completion of one year program in Ultrasound Certificate from an approved ultrasound/vascular technology education program Registered by ARDMS Five years ultrasound experience. Am Rgtry Diagn Med Sonographer NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $101,420.80 – $112,020.80 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift(37.5 Hours) Case Management Assistant 1137369_RR00099769 Per Diem-Massage Therapist – **Cancer Center/Oncology Cert highly preferred** Job ID: 1137369_RR00099769 Shift: Mon – Fri; 9am-5pm, as needed Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, CancerCtr-Clinical Admin (H1837) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Per Diem-Massage Therapist – **Cancer Center/Oncology Cert highly preferred**. In this role, the successful candidate will provide massage therapy for oncology patients in the NYU Clinical Cancer Center and associated sites Documents treatment notes in electronic medical record Supports patients in developing additional means of self care for relaxation such as meditation and yoga Educates patients on specific massage techniques used in oncology massage regarding benefits safety and optimal dosing for symptom management Obtains medical clearance from MD or RN before performing massage therapy Develops individual treatment plans based on patients symptoms To qualify you must have an Associate’s Degree Valid NYS license in massage therapy Three years experience providing massage therapy in a clinical setting Advanced training in one or more of the following topics/modalities: a Oncology massage b Hospital based massage c Reiki d Meditation e Manual Lymphatic Drainage NONE OR ISSUE WITH FILE NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $55.00 – $55.00 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138463_RR00100534 Speech Pathologist – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138463_RR00100534 Shift: Tuesday-Saturday 10AM-6PM. Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Rehabilitation Services-Speech (L177473) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Speech Pathologist – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate Under direct supervision assists in administering diagnostic and rehabilitative services to patients with speech and language impairments Performs related work CARE PLANNING: Develops and implements a care plan that meets the identified needs of the patient and care partners The care plan must include measurable short and long term goals with time frames DISCHARGE PLANNING: Develops and implements discharge plan in conjunction with patient care partners and other members of the care team OTHER: Participates in investigating methods to improve the clinical management of speech and language disorders and research related to the development of diagnostic and remedial procedures in the design of apparatus Maintains a professional appearance and demonstrates appropriate professionalism during job performance Performs other duties as assigned DOCUMENTATION: Completes all required documentation for patient care and reimbursement Completes and plans all required documentation in medical chart as required by Department guidelines and JACHO/CARF requirements Clinical Documentation is thorough and completed using appropriate medical and clinical terminology PARTICIPATION: Participates in team meetings case conferences and committees as assigned ORGANIZATION: Responsible for certain level of patient care productivity as indicated by individual Unit Procedures Demonstrates the ability to provide expected patient contact as indicated by productivity reports and patient contact analysis EDUCATION AND SUPERVISION: May counsel patients and/or families in their adjustment to speech and language impairments May counsel pre operative or post operative patients to prepare them for surgical procedures and appropriate post operative therapy Participates in Clinical Education of Fieldwork students and other professional Teaches and supervises assigned students in Occupational Therapy techniques skills and procedures Demonstrates a genuine interest in assisting students in enhancing their knowledge and skill levels Encourages positive learning experiences for Career Opportunity Students and other Non Fieldwork students ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION: Assists in the examination of persons with speech and language disorders upon medical referral and the determination of the etiology history and severity of specific disorders through interviewing and testing Assists in the assessment evaluation analysis and treatment of communicative and social handicaps resulting from speech and language impairments and their predicating diseases Assists in investigating and studying underlying causes precipitating factors symptomatic behavior and the emotional mid practical effect upon the patient of speech and language disorders PATIENT PROGRESS: Attends evaluation conferences and rounds to determine progress and prognosis of patients under treatment Assists in the scheduling of examinations preparation of preliminary case histories summaries and reports on the therapeutic progress and goals of patients under treatment INTERVENTIONS: Assists in the planning and administration of remedial programs designed to restore or improve the communicative ability of patients with physiogenic or psychogenic speech and language disorders in order to produce improve or restore appropriate speech thresholds Assists in the treatment of speech and language disorders such as aphasia articulatory defects cerebral palsy cleft palate cluttering delayed speech stuttering and voice disorder including laryngectomy To qualify you must have a A Master s Degree with a major in Speech Language Pathology from an accredited college with three hundred hours of supervised clinical experience in speech language pathology NYS Speech Language Pathology License and ASHA Certification required CPR certification NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $102,543.72 – $103,583.72 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1135474_RR00098205 Job ID: 1135474_RR00098205 Population Health-Epidemiology (S1547) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Program Coordinator. The Department of Population Health at NYU School of Medicine seeks a Program Coordinator for the City Health Dashboard www cityhealthdashboard com and Congressional District Health Dashboard www congressionaldistricthealthdashboard org collectively known as the Health Dashboard Initiatives HDI The Dashboard is a suite of national interactive data websites that provide metrics on health and social drivers of health at the city and congressional district levels Responsibilities for this position include coordinating and providing project management support for mission aligned collaborations and projects with external Dashboard partners including non profit organizations city government employees health department officials and other academic institutions; supporting user research and website design efforts; contributing to the development of outreach and dissemination materials; and other duties as assigned The ideal candidate will have a bachelors or masters degree and related professional experience in public health public policy municipal/local public administration communications or a writing related discipline editing journalism etc Further education or internship/volunteer experience can be considered in lieu of work experience We are a dynamic and diverse team that values collaboration growth and passion for public health We strive to be a supportive environment that encourages team members to have high standards for the quality of our work while also maintaining a balance with other life priorities We believe that high performing teams include people from different backgrounds and experiences who can challenge each other s assumptions with fresh perspectives To that end we actively seek a diverse pool of applicants including those from historically marginalized groups Supporting the Program Supervisor in developing the strategy format and content of strategic projects aimed at translating Dashboard data fostering website engagement and translating data into local action nbsp; Develop a deep understanding of user needs through projects conversations webinars conferences and user feedback forms nbsp; Serve as an internal user advocate understanding and advocating for the interests of website users nbsp; Work cross functionally across the HDI team and our web developer to develop a strategy for researching and improving on HDI website user experience nbsp; Act as the point of contact between outside organizations and the HDI on collaborative projects nbsp; Cultivate relationships with external contractors and support the Program Supervisor in monitoring progress on contracted deliverables Perform project management tasks including creating meeting agendas note taking organizing action items and other coordinating duties as assigned nbsp; Track projects using project management software ClickUp including updating project status documenting timelines creating new tasks and task templates assigning tasks and others Communicate effectively with other project staff and stakeholders including Dashboard senior leadership government leaders and others Work cross functionally and collaboratively within a large team Coordinate nbsp;tasks and work independently in a fast paced environment Other programmatic or administrative tasks as assigned To qualify you must have a Bachelor s degree or equivalent in business administration healthcare administration or related field or an equivalent combination of education and relevant experience Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as Word Excel Access PowerPoint and Outlook Familiar with Internet applications Effective oral written communication interpersonal skills Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and must work and communicate effectively with both internal and external customers Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure Ability to Project/Program manage and to multi task while paying attention to details Bachelor s or master s degree in English communications journalism or related field Minimum of four years of progressively responsible related experience including program/project coordination or an equivalent combination of education and experience Demonstrated experience coordinating complex collaborative projects across sectors Comfort working with stakeholders from a variety of backgrounds including government academia media and non profit organizations Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as World Excel Power Point and Outlook Effective oral written communication and interpersonal skills Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and work and communicate effectively with both internal and external stakeholder Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure Ability to multitask and project manage Familiarity working with local government or congressional leadership Customer service/coaching experience related to public health and/or data NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $62,400.00 – $73,805.68 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Matters relating to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy and security are collaboratively managed by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance and Enterprise Risk Management and the information technology security group. To protect our patients’ privacy and confidentiality, NYU Langone Health strives to ensure the privacy and security of protected health information (PHI). The departments implement policies and procedures to manage the acquisition, use, and disclosure of PHI; investigate privacy and security complaints and breaches; and provide regulatory guidance to members of the NYU Langone Health community to ensure that NYU Langone Health complies with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, as well as its own policies. To report a HIPAA concern, please call the HIPAA Helpline at 877-PHI-LOSS or 877-744-5677 . The helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. You can also complete an online submission . HIPAA concerns can also be reported to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management at Policies and Forms Policy - Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy - Breach Notification Policy - Business Associates Policy - Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Policy - Designated Record Set Policy - Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends Policy - Disclosures of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax.pdf Policy - General Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy - HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation Policy - HIPAA Privacy Policy and Procedure Definitions Policy - Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy - Mitigation of HIPAA-Related Incidents Policy - Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Policy - Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy - Right to Request Additional Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of PHI Policy - Right to Request an Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy - Right to Request an Amendment Policy - Right to Request Confidential or Alternative Communications Policy - Safeguarding PHI Policy - Sanctions for HIPAA Violations Policy - Sensitive PHI Policy - Use and Disclosure of PHI in the Patient Directory Form - Authorization for the Use and Disclosure of PHI and Instructions (medical records request form) Form - Patient Request for an Accounting of Disclosures Form Form - Patient Request to Inspect PHI Form Form - Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of PHI to an Insurer Form Form - Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of PHI Form Form - Request to Amend PHI Form Form - Patient Request for Confidential Communications of PHI Form The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management supports NYU Langone Health’s commitment to a culture of compliance. It provides oversight in matters relating to the code of conduct; supports compliance with Stark and Anti-Kickback statutes; conducts compliance and privacy (HIPAA) investigations and reporting; performs compliance and privacy-related policy review and updates; maintains confidential helplines and web intakes; and provides education required of the compliance program and state and federal laws. The department is available to assist all members of the NYU Langone Health community with any concerns or questions regarding policies, the code of conduct, and/or compliance-related matters. To report a compliance concern, please call the Compliance Helpline at 866-NYU-1212 or 866-698-1212 . The helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in multiple languages. You can remain anonymous. You can also complete an . Compliance concerns can also be reported to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management at Preventing Fraud, Waste, and Abuse: Federal False Statements and False Claims Prohibition Against Employing or Contracting with Ineligible Persons and Excluded Individuals NYU Langone Health’s webpages aim to provide general information about the topics they present. They are not intended to make statements concerning the official policies and practices of the institutions unless stated otherwise. A considerable effort has been made in good faith to ensure that material accessible from this site is accurate. Despite this effort, it is clear that errors are inevitable. Consequently, no guarantees are expressed or implied as to the accuracy, timeliness, currency or completeness of any information authored by persons at or agents of NYU or its affiliates, or accessible using links from this site. Nor is any warranty made that the information obtained from this site or that of an affiliate is valuable or useful for any purpose. A reader assumes full responsibility for any actions taken based on information obtained from this website. In particular, we emphasize that the information available through this site should not be interpreted as medical or professional advice. All medical information, from this or any other source, needs carefully to be reviewed with your trusted healthcare provider before being acted upon in any way. The patient stories, testimonials, statements, and opinions presented on this website are applicable to the individuals depicted. Results will vary and may not be representative of the experiences of others. The stories and testimonials are voluntarily provided and are not paid, nor were the individuals provided with free products, services, or any benefits in exchange for their statements. The stories and testimonials are representative of each individual’s experiences, but the exact results and experiences of others will be unique and individual to each patient. New York University Disclaimer The policies, requirements, course offerings, schedules, activities, tuition fees, and calendar of the school and its departments and programs set forth in this site are subject to change without notice at any time at the sole discretion of the administration. Such changes may be of any nature, including, but not limited to, the elimination of the school or college, programs, classes, or activities; the relocation of or modification of the content of any of the foregoing; and the cancellation of scheduled classes or other academic activities. Payment of tuition or attendance at any classes shall constitute a student’s acceptance of the administration’s right as set forth in the above paragraph. Acceptable Use The information resources of NYU Langone Health are provided to facilitate the business of NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Langone Health, and their affiliates. Use of the information presented in these webpages is for the personal use of you, the individual reading the pages. Use of information from this site for commercial purposes, other than those approved by the School and NYU Langone Health, is not permitted. Use of data, algorithms and conceptual information contained in the faculty profile and research webpages is forbidden without permission from the authors and NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Use of NYU, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, or NYU Langone Health icons and logos is restricted: these icons and logos may not be used without the permission of NYU or NYU Langone Health. Use of addresses, email addresses, or phone numbers for the purpose of contacting individuals at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Langone Health for any purpose other than the conduct of the business of the School, NYU Langone Health, or its affiliates is not permitted. Copyright Unless otherwise noted, all documents accessed from this site are viewed as a precious resource of NYU and are Copyright, New York University, All Rights Reserved. Use of any data or other materials accessed from this site without the permission of the authors and NYU may result in action being taken against offenders. Advertising on Our Website NYU Langone Health is comprised of nonprofit organizations. We do not permit the use of advertising for any third-party organizations on our websites. The Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) ensures the integrity and objectivity of business decision-making and research credibility at NYU Langone Health. The CIMU coordinates the disclosure and reporting of potential conflicts of interest, as well as identifies and manages them in accordance with NYU Langone’s conflicts of interest policies. Additionally, the CIMU makes certain that NYU Langone Health is compliant with rules and regulations, such as the Public Health Service (PHS) financial conflict of interest regulations, the Sunshine Act, and the NY Non-Profit Revitalization Act, among others. Adequate management of such matters eliminates any impropriety, or the perception of impropriety, and helps to maintain the public’s trust in NYU Langone. If you have any questions, please contact CIMU at Conflict of Interest Policies Conflict of interest policies apply to all of us—trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, employees, trainees, students, volunteers, vendors, contractors, consultants, and agents of the NYU Langone community—and help us uphold a principled partnership with the industry and avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. For ease of reference, these policies are organized into three parts. Business Conflicts of Interest Policies These policies cover general business conflicts of interest and apply to all members in the NYU Langone community, with the exception of Trustees (see Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons). Research Conflicts of Interest Policies These policies consist of two policies, the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Research, which applies to all investigators participating in a sponsored project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health; and the Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research, which applies to financial interests that NYU or NYU Langone Health may have in research being conducted on human subjects at the institution. Faculty Conflicts of Commitment and Consulting Policies These policies apply to all faculty members of NYU Langone Health and pertain to conflicts arising from faculty members’ outside activities and to his or her obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health Conflict Policies Policy - Business Affairs Conflicts of Interest Policy - Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Policy - Faculty Consulting Policy - Conflicts of Interest for Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons Form - Faculty Consulting Addendum for Use with Consulting Agreements NYU Policy Applicable to NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Policy - NYU Academic Conflicts Read about our public notices from NYU Langone. Notice of Change Healthcare Security Incident Magnet Recognition Program Site Visit FEMA-Funded Bid Opportunities Other Bid Opportunities Requests for Quotes (RFQs) Requests for Proposals (RFPs) Request for Quotes (RFQs) Request for Proposals (RFPs) Request for Information NYU Langone Health’s policies and disclaimers address HIPAA privacy, billing and research compliance, conflicts of interests, and other compliance related information and policies. 1138606_RR00100821 Job ID: 1138606_RR00100821 Shift: 5 days a week, 11am to 7pm, rotating weekends and holidays Department: Allied Health, NSG-Central Nursing Service (H340) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift(37.5 Hours). In this role, the successful candidate Assists in implementation of the nursing process by performing direct and indirect patient care to assigned patients under the supervision of the Registered Professional Nurse Assists in maintaining an orderly and safe patient care environment and unit Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property check list and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts necessary remains with until he/she has left building. Conducts rounds toileting, positioning, comfort, safety needs. Answers lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) suction set- ups. Provides basic hygiene patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth denture hair nail foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients meals including: Clearing overbed tables placing them within reach patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist simple treatments. Remove reapply SCD wraps directed the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens RN. Informs RN any audible clinical alarms such IV pumps, feeding ventilators, bedside monitors Assists moving, lifting, transporting patients. removal security items prior procedures, needed. Changes linen accordance policy necessary. Takes electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, respiration per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports abnormalities to RN. Weighs on admission, ordered, Measures oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. post mortem observations continuous observation restraints, directed. Reports observed condition Responds meets patient/family needs customer concerns soon possible compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the health care team. Maintains competence in-service educational programs. Attends staff meetings reviews/signs minutes not attended. Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. supply equipment management patient, procedure rooms standards. cleanliness utility pantries assigned. duties errands, relieving units, bringing stretchers assisting of the health team, as directed. aligned mission values organization. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or equivalent Required Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant program or minimum 6 months relevant experience BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification Issued by the American Heart Association AHA OR Heartsaver CPR/AED certification Issued by the American Heart Association AHA is required upon entry to the position Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills. Basic Life Support Cert NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48,102.66 – $50,245.06 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138348_RR00100087 Job ID: 1138348_RR00100087 Department: Allied Health, NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Social Work (L179583) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Case Management Assistant. In this role, the successful candidate The Case Management Assistant under the direction of the Assistant Director s of the Department of Case Management will be responsible for providing administrative support services to the professional staff in the department 1 With direction assists in the completion of documentation necessary to develop and implement a post acute discharge plan for patients Performs other related duties as assigned or requested Assists in completion of eligibility documents assessment forms etc as necessary and appropriate Provides information relative to services specific programs and treatment options offered by LMC Assists in the collection and reporting of timely accurate statistical data Maintains professional documentation as defined by organizational policy and procedure Work with financial counselors to assist patients with Medicaid Medicare and other financial resources when necessary Assemble resources on available benefits/entitlements and referral services Obtain approval for hospital provided prescriptions for patients being discharged Assists in facilitating discharges for homeless patients including assistance in completion of appropriate packet getting acceptance and arranging transportation Coordinates the arrangement s for referrals for transportation durable medical equipment residential facility placements and other facilities as needed for all eligible patients Assists in obtaining authorizations for transition to the next level of care i e home acute/subacute rehab facility transportation DME etc Utilizes knowledge of community resources to refer patients to appropriate services to ensure continuity and quality of care Serve as liaison with community agencies and referral services Inputs essential data from third party payors into Allscripts Screens telephone and fax requests Responds to inquiries and makes appropriate referrals Assist case managers social workers and other members of the interdisciplinary team in all discharge planning matters Collaborates with the interdisciplinary team to assist in the implementation of the discharge plan To qualify you must have a Minimum Education: Bachelors Degree Minimum Experience /Requirements: Minimum 1 year service in a consumer service field Effective oral written communication and interpersonal skills Ability to work collaboratively and cooperatively within a team and with internal and external customers Strong organizational skills Ability to set priorities Must be able to manage a variable workload Must be flexible in a changing environment Proficient in use of computer ability to learn new programs NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $33,778.63 – $53,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Our expert care providers treat thousands of conditions, diseases, illnesses, and injuries. Top Ranked NYU Langone Ranks No. 1 in Nation for Neurology & Neurosurgery Read the Story Search Condition by Name Please wait result for " " Clear search result Related conditions related result No result for " Refine your search or try a different term. Conditions by Type Asthma, bronchiectasis, COPD, emphysema, lung cancer, sleep disorders, and more. Arthritis, back pain, fractures, hernia, joint pain, sports injuries, sprains and strains, and more. Alzheimer’s disease, concussion, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, stroke, and more. Anemia, blood disorders, leukemia, lymphoma, melanoma, mesothelioma, sarcoma, and more. Diabetes, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, pituitary and thyroid disorders, and more. Chron's disease, colon polyps, GERD, gluten sensitivity, IBD, IBS, ulcerative colitis, and more. Allergies, balance disorders, hearing loss, sinus infections, and more. Astigmatism, cataract, corneal disease, glaucoma, macular degeneration, retinopathy, stye, and more. Birth defect, limb abnormality, musclar dystrophy, spina bifida, and more. Aortic and mitral valve disease, heart attack, heart rhythm disorders, hypertension, stroke, and more. Behcet's disease, lupus, myasthenia gravis, rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, and more. AIDS, HIV, hepatitis B and C, bone and soft tissue infections, travel-related infections, and more. Cirrhosis, kidney disease, prostate cancer, ureteral and urethral stricture, UTI, and more. Addiction, anxiety, autism, ADHD, depression, eating disorders, PTSD, schizophrenia, and more. Calcium disorder, Chron's disease, eating disorders, lipid disorders, obesity, and more. Behavioral problems, cerebral palsy, developmental delays, learning disorders, and more. Erectile dysfunction, fibroids, gynecologic cancer, menopause, prostate disease, and more. Acne, aging skin, eczema, hair loss, psoriasis, rosacea, shingles, varicose veins, warts, and more. Conditions A to Z 1,929 conditions Search results beginning with Back to top Abdominal abscess Find a doctor & schedule Abdominal adhesions Abdominal aortic aneurysm Abdominal hernia Abdominal infection Abdominal mass Our approach to Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children Abdominal tumor Our approach to: Liver Cancer & Liver Metastases Aberrant parathyroid gland Abnormal breathing Abnormal eye pressure Abnormal gait Abnormal heart rhythms Our approach to Arrhythmias in Children Abnormal liver test Abnormal pap test results Our approach to Abnormal Pap Test Results Abnormal sensation Abnormal uterine bleeding Abscess Absence seizures Acetabular dysplasia Our approach to Achalasia Achilles injury Our approach to Achilles Injury Achilles tendon rupture Our approach to Achondroplasia in Children Acid base disorder Acne Our approach to Acne Our approach to Acoustic Neuroma Acromegaly Acromioclavicular sprain Actinic keratosis Acute coronary syndrome Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis Acute flaccid myelitis Acute liver failure Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Leukemia Leukemia in Children Acute myelogenous leukemia Acute Myeloid Leukemia Acute pain Acute pancreatitis Acute renal failure Acute respiratory distress Acute respiratory failure Acute stress disorder Acute urinary retention Addiction Our approach to Addiction Addison's disease Adductor tendinitis Adenocarcinoma Our approach to Sinonasal Cancer Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the head and neck Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the lung Adenoiditis Our approach to Tonsillitis & Adenoiditis in Children Adenotonsillar hypertrophy Adhesive capsulitis Adjustment disorder Adnexal mass Adolescent obesity Adrenal adenomas Adrenal gland disorders Our approach to Adrenal Tumors Adrenal insufficiency Adrenal mass Adrenal tumor Our approach to Adult Congenital Heart Disease Adult respiratory distress syndrome Adult-onset still disease Advanced sleep phase syndrome Aging skin Our approach to Aging Skin Agoraphobia Aids-related lymphoma Our approach to AIDS-Related Lymphoma Aids-related malignancies Airway growth or tumor Airway obstruction Alcohol-related liver disease Allergic rhinitis Allergy Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency Alzheimer's disease Our approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Ampullary cancer Ampullary polyp Amyloidosis Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Our approach to Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Anal cancer Anal fissure Anal fistula Anal warts Anatomical narrow angle Anca-associated vasculitis Anemia Aneurysm of aortic arch Aneurysm of aortic root Angelman syndrome Angina Angioedema Angiomyolipomas Angiosarcoma Sarcoma in Children Soft Tissue Sarcoma Ankle fracture Ankle injuries Ankle pain Ankle strain Ankle tendinitis Ankle tendon tear Ankylosing spondylitis Anomalous pulmonary vein Anorectal abscess Anorectal malformations Anorexia Our approach to Eating Disorders in Children & Adolescents Anterior cruciate ligament tear Our approach to Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tears Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy Antibiotic-resistant infections Our approach to Antibiotic-Resistant Infections Antiphospholipid syndrome Our approach to Antiphospholipid Syndrome Our approach to Anxiety Disorders Our approach to Aortic Aneurysm Aortic disease Our approach to Aortic Dissection Our approach to Aortic Valve Disease Aortic valve insufficiency Aortic valve stenosis Aortoiliac occlusive disease Our approach to Aortoiliac Occlusive Disease Aortopulmonary window Aphasia Appendicitis Appendix tumor Apraxia Arm fracture Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia Arterial or blood vessel malformation of head or neck Arteriosclerosis Arteriovenous fistula Arteriovenous malformation Our approach to Juvenile Arthritis Arthrogryposis Our approach to Arthrogryposis in Children Artificial urinary sphincter Ascites, gastrointestinal Asperger syndrome Our approach to Autism Spectrum Disorder in Children Aspiration pneumonia Our approach to Asthma Astigmatism Astrocytoma Glioma & Astrocytoma Spinal Cord Tumors Asymmetric or enlarged labia Ataxia Atherosclerosis Atopic dermatitis Atrial fibrillation & atrial flutter Our approach to Atrial Fibrillation & Atrial Flutter Atrial flutter Atrial septal defect Our approach to Congenital Heart Defects in Children Atrioventricular septal defect Attention deficit disorder in adults Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Our approach to Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children Our approach to Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in Children Atypia of breast Our approach to Atypical Facial Pain Atypical hyperplasia Autism Autoimmune disorder of inner ear Autoimmune encephalitis Autoimmune hepatitis Our approach to Autoimmune Hepatitis in Children Autoimmune pancreatitis Autoimmune thyroid disease Autoinflammatory syndrome Our approach to Autonomic Disorders Autonomic neuropathy Axial spondyloarthritis Azoospermia B Back injury Our approach to Back Pain Back problem Back strain Bacterial resistance Baker's cyst Balance disorders Barrett's esophagus Our approach to Barrett’s Esophagus Basal cell cancer Our approach to Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers Base of tongue cancer Behavior disorder Behavior pattern Behcet's disease Our approach to Behcet’s Disease Bell's palsy Benign breast disease Benign liver cyst Benign liver tumor Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (bppv) Benign prostatic hyperplasia Benign prostatic hypertrophy Benign prostatic obstruction Benign skin tumor Our approach to Benign Vocal Cord Lesions Biceps tendinitis Bile duct abnormalities Bile duct cancer Our approach to Bile Duct Cancer Bile duct cysts Bile duct disease Bile duct obstruction Bile duct stone Bile duct stricture Bile reflux Our approach to Biliary Atresia in Children Biliary cancer Biliary colic Biliary disease Biliary stricture Our approach to Bipolar Disorder Birth defect Birthmark Our approach to Birthmarks in Children Black esophagus Our approach to Bladder Cancer Bladder diverticulum Bladder exstrophy and epispadias Bladder pain Bladder problem Bladder prolapse Bladder stone Bleeding tendency Blepharitis Blepharospasm Blood cancer Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma Hairy Cell Leukemia Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children Myelodysplastic Syndromes Myeloproliferative Disorders Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in Children Blood clotting disorder Our approach to von Willebrand Disease in Children Blood disorder Hemophilia in Children Multiple Myeloma Sickle Cell Disease in Children von Willebrand Disease in Children Blount disease Our approach to Blount Disease in Children Blurred vision Boil Bone & joint infections Bone Sarcoma Bone cysts Bone spurs Bone tumor Bone tumor of head or neck Bowel dysfunction Bowel incontinence Bph (without retention) Brachial plexus injuries Our approach to Brachial Plexus Injuries Our approach to Bradycardia Brain abscess Brain aneurysm Brain bleeding Brain cancer Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Brain inflammation Brain injury Brain metastasis Brain tumor Brain & Spinal Cord Tumors in Children Branchial cleft Branchial cleft cyst Branchial vestige Brca gene Male Breast Cancer Breast disease Breathing disorder during sleeping Hoarseness in Children Respiratory Problems in Neurologically Impaired Children Sleep Apnea in Children Sleep Disorders in Children Brittle bone disease Our approach to Osteogenesis Imperfecta in Children Our approach to Bronchiectasis Brown syndrome Brugada syndrome Bulimia Our approach to Bunions Burn injury Burning mouth syndrome Bursitis & tendinitis Our approach to Bursitis & Tendinitis Cachexia Cafe au lait spot Calcaneovalgus foot Calcium disorder Cancer of skin of face, scalp or eyelid Cancer of throat or voice box Cancer pain Capillary hemangioma Capillary malformation Carbon monoxide poisoning Our approach to Poisoning in Children Carcinoid tumor Carcinoma of head and neck Cardiac amyloidosis Cardiac device implant Our approach to Cardiac Device Management Cardiac disease in pregnancy Cardiac myxoma Cardiomyopathy & heart failure Our approach to Cardiomyopathy & Heart Failure Our approach to Carotid Artery Disease Our approach to Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Cartilage injury Cataract Our approach to Cataract Catheter changes Catheterizable pouches Catheterizable stoma Cavernoma Cavernous hemangioma Cavus foot Celiac disease & gluten sensitivity Our approach to Celiac Disease & Gluten Sensitivity Celiac disease in children Our approach to Celiac Disease in Children Cellulitis Central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia Central nervous system cancer Central nervous system lymphoma Our approach to Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma Central nervous system vascular malformation Central post-stroke pain Central sleep apnea Our approach to Cerebral Palsy in Children Cerebral vasculitis Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis Cerebrovascular disorder Ceruloplasmin Our approach to Cervical Cancer Cervical disc disease Cervical dystonia Cervical myelopathy Cervical precancer Cervical radiculopathy Cervical spinal stenosis Cervical spine disc herniated Cervical spine fracture Cervicogenic headache Cesarean scar defect Chalazion Charcot foot Our approach to Charcot Foot Charcot marie tooth disease Chest pain Chiari malformation Our approach to Spina Bifida in Children Chilblains Child abuse Child neglect Children with complex congenital hand conditions Choanal atresia Cholangiocarcinoma Cholecystitis Choledochal cyst Cholestasis Cholesteatoma Chondrosarcoma Chorea Choroid plexus papilloma Choroideremia Chronic bronchitis Chronic cough Chronic Cough in Children Chronic daily headache Chronic diarrhea Chronic ear infection Chronic fatigue syndrome Chronic infection or problems with jaw bone Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy Chronic liver disease Chronic lung disease of prematurity Our approach to Chronic Lung Disease of Prematurity Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) Chronic migraines Chronic myelogenous leukemia (cml) Our approach to Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic pancreatitis Chronic renal failure Our approach to Chronic Kidney Disease in Children Chronic respiratory failure Our approach to Chronic Sinusitis Chronic thyroiditis Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (cte) Our approach to Chronic Venous Insufficiency Circadian rhythm sleep disorder Circumcision concerns Claudication Clavicle fracture Cleft lip Cleft palate Clostridium difficile infections Our approach to Clostridium Difficile Infections Cloudy vision Coarctation Cognitive disorder Cognitive impairment Colitis Colon cancer Our approach to Colorectal Cancer Colon inflammation Colon metastases Colon polyp Colon tumor Colonic dysmotility Colonic fistula Colovesical fistula Combined hyperlipidemia Common variable immunodeficiency Our approach to Compartment Syndrome Complex regional pain syndrome Complication associated with cardiac implant Complication of transplant Complications of diabetes mellitus Compression fracture Compression injury of nerve Our approach to Concussion Conductive hearing loss Confusional arousals Congenital abnormality of respiratory system Our approach to Respiratory Problems in Neurologically Impaired Children Congenital adrenal hyperplasia Our approach to Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Congenital atresia of intestinal tract Congenital clubfoot Our approach to Clubfoot in Children Congenital facial anomalies Congenital hepatic fibrosis Congenital hydrocephalus Our approach to Hydrocephalus in Children Congenital hypertrophy of the retina and retinal pigment epithelium Congenital hypothyroidism Our approach to Congenital Hypothyroidism Congenital kyphosis Congenital neck mass Congenital posterior urethral valve Our approach to Congenital Kidney & Urinary Tract Problems Congenital pulmonary airway malformation (cpam) Congenital retinoschisis Congenital scoliosis Our approach to Scoliosis in Children Congenital short femur Congestion Conjunctival melanoma Conjunctivitis Our approach to Conjunctivitis Connective tissue disease Our approach to Lupus in Children Constipation Contact dermatitis Continuous spike-and-wave during sleep Convergence insufficiency Convulsions Cor triatriatum Corneal abrasion Corneal disease Corneal ulcer Coronary artery anomaly Our approach to Coronary Artery Disease Corticobasal degeneration Cortisol Craniopharyngioma Creutzfeldt jakob disease Critical limb ischemia Crohn's disease Our approach to Crohn’s Disease in Children Crossed eye Crush injury Cubital tunnel syndrome Cumulative trauma disorder Cushing's syndrome Cutaneous lupus Our approach to Cutaneous Lupus Cutaneous lymphoma Our approach to Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma Cyclic vomiting syndrome Our approach to Cystic Fibrosis in Children Cystocele D Dandy walker syndrome De quervain syndrome Deafness Our approach to Deep Vein Thrombosis Our approach to Degenerative Disc Disease Delayed gastric emptying Delayed puberty Delayed sleep wake phase disorder Our approach to Dementia Our approach to Depression Depressive disorder Our approach to Mood Disorders in Children Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Dermatomyositis Our approach to Dermatomyositis Developmental delay Developmental Delays in Children Disorders of Puberty Developmental disability Developmental dysplasia of the hip Developmental regression Deviated septum Our approach to Deviated Septum Diabetes insipidus Diabetes risk Diabetic foot Our approach to Diabetic Foot Ulcers Diabetic nerve damage Diabetic retinopathy Diaphragm disease Difficulty urinating Diffuse large b-cell lymphoma Digestive system disease Dilated cardiomyopathy Discogenic pain Dislocated finger Dislocated intraocular lens Dislocated wrist Disorder of orbit Disorder of soft tissue Disruptive behavior disorder Our approach to Behavioral Problems in Children Distal biceps tendon rupture Our approach to Distal Biceps Tendon Rupture Distal humerus fractures Distal radius fracture Distorted vision Diverticular disease Our approach to Diverticular Disease Double inlet left ventricle Double outlet right ventricle Our approach to Double Vision Dravet syndrome Dropped uterus Drug reactions & hives Our approach to Drug Reactions & Hives Drug resistant epilepsy Drug-induced liver injury Drusen Dry eye syndrome Our approach to Dry Eye Syndrome Duane syndrome Duodenal cancer Duodenal ulcer Duplication 15q syndrome Dupuytren's contracture Dysautonomia Dyslipidemia Dysmenorrhea Dyspareunia Dyssomnia Dyssynergic defecation Dystonia E coli infection Ear infection Ear malformation Ear shape concern Ear tumor (benign or malignant) Ear wax Early onset alzheimers disease Early satiety Eating disorders Our approach to Eating Disorders Ebstein's anomaly Ectopic pregnancy Ectopic ureter Ectropion Eczema Eczema & dermatitis Our approach to Eczema & Dermatitis Ehlers danlos syndrome Ejaculation disorder Elbow arthritis Elbow contracture Elbow dislocation Elbow injury Elbow pain Elbow sprains & strains Our approach to Elbow Sprains & Strains Elbow stiffness Elbow swelling Elbow tendinitis Electrolyte imbalance Elevated prostate-specific antigen Emotional disorder Our approach to Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia Our approach to Endometriosis Endothelial dysfunction Enlarged kidney Enlarged liver Enlarged prostate Enlarged spleen Enteritis Enterocutaneous fistula Entropion Environmental lung disease Eosinophilic esophagitis Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis Ependymoma Epicondylitis Epigastric hernia Epilepsy & seizure disorders Our approach to Epilepsy & Seizure Disorders Epilepsy in pregnancy Epileptic encephalopathy Epiretinal membrane Episiotomy complications Epithelial cyst Epstein barr virus Erb's palsy Our approach to Erectile Dysfunction Erythema Esophageal atresia Our approach to Esophageal Cancer Esophageal disease Esophageal disorder Esophageal motility disorders Esophageal mucosal ring Esophageal spasm Esophageal stricture Esophageal varices Esophagitis Esotropia Essential thrombocythemia (et) Essential tremor Ewing's sarcoma Our approach to Bone Sarcoma Excess eyelid skin Excessive daytime sleepiness Excessive hairiness Excessive tearing Excoriation Exfoliation syndrome Exotropia External compression headache External ear tumor Eye cancer Intraocular Melanoma in Adults Retinoblastoma in Children Eye floater Eye infection Eye injury Eye movement disorder Eye pain Eye redness Eyelid irritation Eyelid malposition Eyelid tumor Fabry disease Facet joint pain Facial fracture Facial laceration Facial nerve paralysis Our approach to Facial Nerve Paralysis Facial palsy Facial skin cancer Facial spasm Fahr's syndrome Our approach to Failed Back Surgery Syndrome Failed vision screenings Fainting Fallopian tube cancer Familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) Our approach to Familial Dysautonomia Familial hypercholesterolemia Familial mediterranean fever Family history of prostate cancer Fatty liver disease Fatty tumor Febrile seizure Fecal incontinence Feeding disorder Female athlete triad syndrome Female genital disorder Female genital fistula Female germ cell tumor Female incontinence Female pattern alopecia (balding or hair loss) Female reproductive system disorder Our approach to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome in Adolescents Female stress incontinence Female urethral stricture Our approach to Female Urinary Incontinence Femoral anteversion Femoral hernia Fertility Our approach to Fibroids Our approach to Fibromyalgia Fibrosarcoma Finger fracture Finger tendon pulley injury Flashing lights Flat feet Fluid in middle ear Fluids disorder Our approach to Fluid & Electrolyte Disorders in Children Focal nodular hyperplasia, liver Follicular lymphoma Follicular thyroid cancer Food poisoning Food protein induced enterocolitis syndrome (fpies) Foot & ankle arthritis Our approach to Foot & Ankle Arthritis Foot & ankle sprains Our approach to Foot & Ankle Sprains Foot deformity Foot drop Foot fracture Foot injury Foot pain Foot tendinitis Foot tumor Foreign body in digestive tract Foreign body in ear Fourth nerve palsy Fracture healing Fragile x-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (fxtas) Frailty Frequent bowel movements Frontotemporal dementia Our approach to Frozen Shoulder Fuchs' dystrophy Functional bowel disorders Functional dyspepsia Functional esophageal disorder Fungal infection Fusion procedure Galactorrhea Gallbladder cancer Gallbladder disease Gallbladder dyskinesia Gallbladder polyp Gallstone disease Our approach to Ganglion Cysts Gas/bloating Gastric cancer Gastritis Our approach to Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Gastrointestinal bleeding Gastrointestinal cancer Small Intestine Cancer Gastrointestinal disease Gastrointestinal infection Gastrointestinal motility disorders Gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumor Gastrointestinal obstruction Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Gastroparesis Gaucher disease Gender affirming hysterectomy patients, female to male only Gender dysphoria Generalized anxiety disorder Genetic skin disease Genital lymphedema Genitourinary neoplasm Genitourinary neuroendocrine tumor Giant cell arteritis Giant cell tumor Glaucoma Our approach to Glaucoma Glioblastoma Globus Glomerular disease Glomerulonephritis Our approach to Glomerulonephritis in Children Glomus jugulare tumor Glossopharyngeal neuralgia Glottic cancer Glottis & subglottic cancer Gluteal tendinitis Gluten sensitivity Goiter Golfer's elbow Gonadal disorder Gorlin syndrome Granuloma annulare Granulomatosis with polyangiitis Graves' disease Our approach to Graves’ Disease in Children Groin injury Groin pain Groin tendinitis Gross hematuria Growth disorder Growth failure Growth hormone deficiency Growth plate Growth Plate Injuries in Children Osgood-Schlatter Disease in Children Guillain-barré syndrome (gbs) Gynecologic cancer Hair disease Our approach to Hair Loss Hallux rigidus Hallux valgus Halo vision Hammer toe Our approach to Hammertoe Hamstring tendinitis Hamstring tendon rupture Hand arthritis Hand deformity Our approach to Congenital Hand Deformities Hand fracture Hand injury Hand pain Hand sprains & strains Our approach to Hand Sprains & Strains Hand tendonitis Hashimoto's disease Hay fever Head & Neck Cancer Hypopharyngeal Cancer Nasopharyngeal Cancer Oral Cancer Salivary Gland Cancer Head and neck lymphedema Head and neck tumors Our approach to Headache Hearing aid clearance Our approach to Hearing Loss Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Heart murmur Heart muscle disease Heart throbbing Heart tumor Heart valve disease Heartburn Heel pain Helicobacter pylori infection Hemangioendothelioma Hemangioma Hemarthrosis Hematologic malignancies Hematoma Hematospermia (blood in semen) Hematuria Hemicrania continua Hemifacial spasm Hemochromatosis Hemoglobinopathy Hemophilia Our approach to Hemophilia in Children Hemorrhoids Henoch schönlein purpura Hepatic artery aneurysm Hepatic encephalopathy Hepatitis a Hepatitis c Hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) Hepatorenal syndrome Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer Our approach to Hernia Our approach to Herniated Disc Herpes simplex virus infection Heterotopic ossification Hht (hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia) Hidradenitis suppurativa Our approach to High Blood Pressure High blood sugar level High breast cancer risk High cholesterol level High grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (hgpin) High triglycerides Hip & pelvic fractures Our approach to Hip & Pelvic Fractures Hip bursitis Hip dislocation Our approach to Developmental Hip Dysplasia Our approach to Hip Impingement Syndrome Hip injury Our approach to Hip Labral Tears Hip pain Our approach to Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease in Children Hip tendinitis Hiv infections & aids Our approach to HIV Infection & AIDS Hives Hoarseness Our approach to Hoarseness in Children Hoarseness related to growth or tumors of voicebox Hodgkin lymphoma Hole/perforation in ear drum Homonymous hemianopia Hormonal disorder Our approach to Disorders of Puberty Hospital-acquired infection Hot flash Our approach to Human Papillomavirus Human papillomavirus related to cancer of head or neck Humerus fracture Huntington's disease Hydrocele testis Hydronephrosis Hydrosalpinx Hyper-igd periodic fever syndrome Hyperaldosteronism Hypercalcemia Hyperextension injury Hyperhidrosis Hyperopia Our approach to Hyperparathyroidism Hyperpigmentation Hyperplastic polyposis syndrome Hyperprolactinemia Hypersomnia Hyperthyroidism Our approach to Hyperthyroidism Our approach to Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Hypertropia Hypocholesterolemia Hypoglycemia Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism Hyponatremia Hypoparathyroidism Our approach to Hypopharyngeal Cancer Hypopituitarism Hypoplastic left heart syndrome Hypospadias Our approach to Hypospadias in Children Hypothalamic amenorrhea Hypothyroidism Our approach to Hypothyroidism Hypoventilation Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy Idiopathic hypersomnia Idiopathic intracranial hypertension Our approach to Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Idiopathic torsion dystonia Ileostomy Immunodeficiency syndrome Immunoglobulin g4 related sclerosing disease Immunologic diseases Imperforate anus Imperforate hymen Implantation failure Inability to empty bladder Inadequate sleep hygiene Inborn errors of metabolism Incarcerated hernia Incisional hernia Indeterminate colitis Indigestion Infantile spasms Infection of the blood vessel Infectious colitis Infectious retinal disease Our approach to Infertility in Women Inflamed pancreas Inflammation of the heart valve Inflammation of the membrane surrounding the heart Inflammation of the skeletal muscle Inflammatory bowel disease Our approach to Inflammatory Bowel Disease Inflammatory myopathies Our approach to Inflammatory Myopathies Our approach to Influenza Ingrown nail Inguinal hernia Inherited & congenital retinal disorders Injury of the lumbar spine Insufficient sleep syndrome Insulin resistance Intellectual disability Interpersonal problems Interpersonal skills Interrupted aortic arch Interstitial cystitis Interstitial lung disease Interstitial nephritis Intestinal fistula Intestinal mass Intracranial hemorrhage Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm Intraocular melanoma Involuntary muscle jerking Irregular periods Our approach to Irritable Bowel Syndrome Ischemic cardiomyopathy Ischemic colitis Itching J Jackhammer esophagus Jaundice Jejunostomy Joint disease Joint pain Juvenile idiopathic arthritis Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis K Kabuki syndrome Kaposi sarcoma Our approach to Kaposi Sarcoma Kawasaki disease Keratoconus Kidney abnormalities Wilms Tumor in Children Kidney cyst Our approach to Kidney Disease Kidney failure Kidney malformation Our approach to Kidney Stones Killian-jamieson diverticulum Kissing spine Kleine-levin syndrome Klinefelter syndrome Knee arthritis Knee bursitis Knee cartilage injuries Our approach to Knee Cartilage Injuries Knee dislocation Knee injury Our approach to Osgood-Schlatter Disease in Children Knee ligament tear Knee sprains & strains Our approach to Knee Sprains & Strains Knee strain Knee swelling Knee tendinitis Knock knees child Kock pouch Kyphosis with lordosis Labial adhesions Labial hypertrophy Labyrinthitis Laceration of eyelid Landau kleffner syndrome Laryngeal trauma/fracture Laryngocele Laryngomalacia Laryngopharyngeal reflux (lpr) Lazy eye Our approach to Lazy Eye Learning disorder Our approach to Learning Disorders in Children Lecithin acyltransferase deficiency Left coronary artery structure Leg fracture Leg length discrepancy in child Leg pain Leg ulcer Legg-calvé-perthes disease Leiomyosarcoma Our approach to Sarcoma in Children Leiomyosarcoma of the uterus Lennox-gastaut syndrome Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis Leukodystrophy Lewy body dementia Lgbtq+ health Lichen planus Lichen sclerosus Limb abnormality Achondroplasia in Children Arthrogryposis in Children Clubfoot in Children Osteogenesis Imperfecta in Children Limb length inequality Lip cancer Our approach to Lipid Disorders Lipid metabolism Lipodystrophy Lipoma Liposarcoma Little league elbow Little league shoulder Liver adenoma Our approach to Liver Cancer & Liver Metastases Liver cell cancer Liver cirrhosis Liver cyst Liver disease Liver failure Liver fibrosis Liver function test abnormalities Liver mass Liver metastases Liver tumor Liver varices Lobular carcinoma in situ of breast (lcis) Long qt syndrome Loose body Loss of consciousness Loss of smell Low back strain Low blood pressure Low muscle tone Cerebral Palsy in Children Low sperm count Low tension glaucoma Low testosterone Low vision Lower back pain Our approach to Lower Extremity Arterial Disease Lumbar disc disease Lumbar radiculopathy Lumbar spinal stenosis Lumbar spine disc herniation Lung carcinoma Lung disease Lung infection Lung mass Lung metastasis Lupus nephritis Lyme arthritis Lyme disease Lymphadenopathy Lymphatic disease Lymphatic malformation Lymphatic malformation of head or neck Lymphedema Our approach to Lymphedema Lymphoma Lynch syndrome Lysis of adhesions of spinal cord Lysosomal storage disease Macular degeneration Our approach to Macular Degeneration Macular hole Mal de debarquement Malabsorption Malaria Male breast enlargement Male genital disorder Male germ cell tumor Our approach to Germ Cell Tumors in Children Male infertility Our approach to Male Infertility Male pattern alopecia (balding or hair loss) Male sexual dysfunction Male stress urinary incontinence Male urinary dysfunction Our approach to Male Urinary Dysfunction Malignant mesothelioma Malignant pleural effusion Malignant schwannoma Malnutrition Mandibular fracture Our approach to Marfan Syndrome Maturity-onset diabetes of the young Maxillary fracture Maxillofacial injuries May-thurner syndrome Mayer rokitansky küster hauser syndrome Meatal stenosis Meckel’s diverticulum Mediastinal disease Mediastinal lymphadenopathy Mediastinal tumor Medullary thyroid cancer Medulloblastoma Our approach to Brain & Spinal Cord Tumors in Children Megaureter Meibomian gland dysfunction Meige syndrome Melanoma Melanoma of head or neck Melasma Memory disorder Our approach to Memory Loss Meniere's disease Meningoencephalitis Meniscus tear Our approach to Meniscus Tears Our approach to Menopause Menstrual disorder Menstrual migraine Meralgia paresthetica Merkel cell carcinoma (mcc) Mesenteric ischemia Our approach to Mesenteric Ischemia Mesh complications Mesothelioma Metabolic bone disease Metabolic syndrome Metabolism Metastatic bone cancer Metastatic prostate cancer Metatarsalgia Metatarsus adductus Methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus infection (mrsa) Micrognathia Microhematuria Microscopic colitis Microscopic polyangiitis Microtia Middle ear infection (otitis media) Middle ear tumor Our approach to Migraine Minor salivary gland tumor Mitochondrial disease Our approach to Mitral Valve Disease Mitral valve prolapse Mitral valve stenosis Mixed connective tissue disease Mog antibody-associated disease Molar pregnancy Mole Monogenic diabetes Mononeuropathy Mood disorder Bipolar Disorder in Children Mood Disorders in Children Morphea Motor vehicle injury Our approach to Movement Disorders Moyamoya disease Mucinous cyst Mucinous cystic neoplasm Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the head and neck Mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the lung Mucopolysaccharidosis Multiple endocrine neoplasia Our approach to Multiple Myeloma Multiple pregnancy Multiple pterygium syndrome Our approach to Multiple Sclerosis Multiple sclerosis in children Multiple system atrophy Muscle contraction headache Muscle disease Muscle pain Muscle spasm Muscle strain Muscular dystrophy Our approach to Muscular Dystrophy Musculoskeletal pain Musculoskeletal problem Our approach to Myasthenia Gravis Mycobacterium infection Myelitis Myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) Myelofibrosis Myeloproliferative disorder Myocardial disease Myocarditis Myofascial pain Myopia Nail disease Nail fungus Nailbed injury Narcolepsy Narrowing of the heart's tricuspid valve Nasal foreign body Nasal obstruction Nasal polyp Nasal sinus cancer Our approach to Head & Neck Cancer Nasal sinus tumor Nasal surgery Our approach to Nasopharyngeal Cancer Nausea Nausea and vomiting Neck abscess Neck mass Head & Neck Masses in Children Our approach to Neck Pain Neck problem Neck swelling Necrobiosis lipoidica Neobladder Neonatal diabetes mellitus Neonatal infection Neonatal respiratory distress Neonatal seizure Nephrotic syndrome Nerve injury Nerve laceration - upper extremity Nerve pain Nerve problems Nerve root injury Nervous system tumor Our approach to Neuroblastoma in Children Neurilemmoma Our approach to Spinal Cord Tumors Neuroendocrine tumor of head and neck Neuroendocrine tumor of the lung Our approach to Neurofibromatosis Neurofibromatosis of head or neck Neurofibrosarcoma Neurogenic bladder Neuroma of foot Neuromuscular disorder Neuromuscular scoliosis Neuromyelitis optica Neuropathic pain Neurosarcoidosis Neutropenia New daily persistent headache Night blindness Night terrors Nocturnal hypoventilation Nodular regenerative hyperplasia Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (nash) Non-healed wound Non-infiltrating lobular carcinoma Non-rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma Nonhealing fractures Our approach to Nonhealing Fractures Nontuberculous mycobacterial infections Our approach to Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infections Our approach to Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus Norovirus Nose bleed Nose fracture Numbness Nystagmus Our approach to Obesity Obsessive compulsive disorder Our approach to Obsessive–Compulsive Disorder in Children Obstetric anal sphincter injury Obstetrical pelvic floor trauma Obstructed megaureter Obstructed vagina Obstruction of pelviureteric junction Our approach to Obstructive Sleep Apnea Occipital neuralgia Occlusive vascular disease Occupational lung disease Ocular herpes Ocular/retinal trauma Olecranon bursitis Olecranon fractures Oligodendroglioma Oligomenorrhea Oligospermia Olivopontocerebellar degeneration Opportunistic infection Oppositional defiant disorder Opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia syndrome (omas) Optic atrophy Optic glioma Optic nerve edema Optic neuritis Optic neuropathy Orbit tumor Orbital fracture Orbital pseudotumor Orbital tumor Orchiectomy Organizational skills Oropharyngeal cancer Our approach to Oropharyngeal Cancer Orthopedic implant failure Orthostatic hypotension Osgood-schlatter disease Osteitis pubis Osteoarthritis of spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Spine Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Hip Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Knee Our approach to Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder Osteochondritis dissecans Osteoid osteoma Our approach to Osteonecrosis Osteopenia Osteoporosis & low bone mass Our approach to Osteoporosis & Low Bone Mass Otosclerosis Our approach to Ovarian Cancer Ovarian cyst Ovarian failure Ovarian insufficiency Ovarian tumor Overactive bladder Pain in lumbar spine Pain in the arms Pain in the ear Pain trigger point Painful leg and moving toes syndrome Pancoast tumor Our approach to Pancreatic Cancer Pancreatic cyst Pancreatic disease Pancreatic mass Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor Pancreatic stone Pancreatic tumor Our approach to Pancreatitis Pancytopenia Panic disorder Panniculitis Papillary thyroid cancer Papilledema Paradoxical vocal fold movement (pvfm) Paraesophageal hernia Paraganglioma Paranasal sinus disease Paraneoplastic neurological syndrome Parasitic disease Parasomnia Parathyroid adenoma Parathyroid disease Our approach to Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Parkinsonism Parkinson's disease Our approach to Parkinson’s Disease Parotid disease Parotid tumor Patella fractures Our approach to Patella Fractures Patent ductus arteriosus Pectus carinatum Pectus excavatum Pelvic congestion syndrome Pelvic infection Pelvic inflammation Pelvic ligament injury Pelvic mass Our approach to Pelvic Organ Prolapse Our approach to Pelvic Pain Pemphigus Penile adhesions, skin bridges Penile curvature Penile prosthesis Peptic ulcer disease Pericardial disease Pericardial effusion Perimenopause Perinatal depression in mother Periodic fever syndrome Periodic limb movement disorder Peripheral nerve injury Peripheral nervous system tumor Peripheral neuropathy Our approach to Peripheral Neuropathy Peripheral vascular disease Peritoneal cancer Personality disorder Pervasive developmental disorder Pessary problems Petit mal seizure Peyronie's disease Phantom limb pain Pharyngeal tumor Pheochromocytoma Phimosis Phobia Our approach to Anxiety Disorders in Children Photosensitivity Physiological shock Pigmentation disorder Pilar cyst Pilocytic astrocytoma Pilonidal cyst Pineal tumor Piriformis syndrome Pituitary adenoma Pituitary apoplexy Pituitary disorder Our approach to Pituitary Tumors Plagiocephaly Our approach to Plantar Fasciitis Plantar pain Platelet disorder Pleomorphic adenoma Pleural disease Pleural effusion Plexiform neurofibroma Pneumothorax Polycystic kidney disease Polycystic ovary syndrome Our approach to Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Polycythemia vera Polygenic hypercholesterolemia Polymyalgia rheumatica Polymyositis Polyneuropathy Pompe disease Popliteal entrapment syndrome Portal hypertension Portal vein thrombosis Post concussion syndrome Post thoracotomy pain Post-mastectomy lymphedema Post-mastectomy pain Post-polio syndrome Post-traumatic headache Our approach to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Posterior cortical atrophy Posterior tibial tendon dysfunction Posterior urethral valves/anterior urethral valves Postherpetic neuralgia Postmenopausal bleeding Postnasal drip Postpartum depression Postpartum incontinence Postpartum thyroiditis Postprandial distress syndrome Pouch failure Pouchitis Prader-willi syndrome Preauricular pit Precocious puberty Prediabetes Our approach to Pregnancy Pregnancy induced diabetes Preleukemia Premature birth Premature menopause Premenopause Premenstrual dysphoric disorder Prenatal hydronephrosis Presbyopia Pressure injury Our approach to Preterm Labor Primary aldosteronism Primary amenorrhea Primary biliary cholangitis (pbc) Primary ciliary dyskinesia Primary exertional headache Primary hypogonadism Primary sclerosing cholangitis Primary stabbing headache Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pnet) Prion disease Proctitis Progressive supranuclear palsy Prolactin disorder Prolactinoma Pronator syndrome Prostate cancer screening Prostate diseases Prostate inflammation Prostate problems Prosthesis Pseudoachondroplasia Pseudofolliculitis barbae Pseudogout Pseudotumor cerebri Our approach to Psoriasis Our approach to Psoriatic Arthritis Psychogenic nonepileptic seizures Pterygium Ptosis Our approach to Ptosis Pudendal nerve injury Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis Pulmonary atresia Our approach to Pulmonary Embolism Pulmonary hypertension Congenital Heart Defects in Children Hypertension in Children Pulmonary sling Pulmonary stenosis Pulmonary valve regurgitation Pulmonary vein stenosis Pyelectasis Pyloric stenosis Quadriceps tendinitis Radial tunnel syndrome Radiation fibrosis Radiation injury Radiation injury specific to the jaw Radicular pain Radiculitis Radiofrequency ablation Ranula Rapid heartbeat Raynaud's disease Reactive arthritis Rectal bleeding Rectourethral fistula Rectovaginal fistula Recurrent hernia Recurrent infection Our approach to Recurrent Miscarriage Recurrent pregnancy loss Recurrent prostate cancer Recurrent urinary tract infection Reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome Refractive error Our approach to Refractive Error Relapsing polychondritis Relationship problems Rem sleep behavior disorder Renal aml Renal artery stenosis Our approach to Renal Artery Stenosis Renal cell carcinoma Our approach to Kidney Cancer Renal mass Renal tubular disorder Our approach to Renal Tubular Disorders in Children Renal vascular disorder Respiratory papilloma Respiratory tract disease Respiratory tract infection Restless leg syndrome Restrictive lung disease Retinal artery occlusion Retinal detachment Our approach to Retinal Detachment Retinal drug toxicity Retinal tear Retinal vasculitis Retinal vein occlusion Retinitis pigmentosa Our approach to Retinoblastoma in Children Retinopathy Retroperitoneal sarcoma Rett syndrome Rhabdomyosarcoma Rheumatic heart disease Rheumatism Our approach to Rheumatoid Arthritis Rhinitis Rhinosinusitis Rickets Rolandic epilepsy Rosacea Our approach to Rosacea Rotator cuff syndrome Sacroiliac joint pain Sacroiliac sprain Sacroiliitis Salivary adenocarcinoma Salivary gland disease Salivary gland tumor Salivary stone Salmonella infection Our approach to Sarcoidosis Sarcoidosis arthritis Scaphoid fracture Scaphoid nonunion fracture Scar Scars & keloids Our approach to Scars & Keloids Schatzki ring Our approach to Schizophrenia School refusal Schwannoma (growth) of head or neck Sciatica Scleroderma Scleroderma esophagus Scoliosis & kyphosis Our approach to Scoliosis & Kyphosis Scoliosis in children Seborrheic dermatitis Secondary amenorrhea Secondary liver cancer Seizure Selective mutism Sensorineural hearing loss Separation anxiety Sepsis Our approach to Sepsis in Children Septic arthritis Septic shock Sesamoiditis Severe and complex trauma of an upper extremity Sexual health Sexually transmitted disease Sharp nerve pain Shift work sleep disorder Shingles Short bowel syndrome Short stature Shoulder & elbow fractures Our approach to Shoulder & Elbow Fractures Shoulder bursitis Our approach to Shoulder Dislocation Shoulder impingement syndrome Shoulder injury Shoulder labral tear Our approach to Shoulder Labral Tears Shoulder pain Shoulder slap tear Shoulder sprains & strains Our approach to Shoulder Sprains & Strains Shoulder tendinitis Shy-drager syndrome Sicca syndrome Sickle cell anemia Our approach to Sickle Cell Disease in Children Sickle cell retinopathy Sigmoid tumor Silent thyroiditis Single ventricle Sinus infection Situs ambiguus Sixth nerve palsy Sjögren's syndrome Our approach to Sjogren's Syndrome Skeletal dysplasia Skene's glands cyst Skin cancer Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers Skin cancer of head or neck Skin disease Skin lesion Skull abnormality Skull base tumor Our approach to Skull Base Tumors Sleep arousal disorder Sleep deprivation Sleep disorder Sleep related movement disorder Sleep start Sleeplessness Sleepwalking Slipped capital femoral epiphysis Small bowel obstruction Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (sibo) Small intestinal dysmotility Small intestine disease Small intestine tumor Small mass of the lung Smell disorder Snoring Social anxiety disorder Soft tissue mass Soft tissue sarcoma in adults Our approach to Soft Tissue Sarcoma Soft tissue sarcoma of head or neck Solid tumor Solitary fibrous tumor Spasmodic torticollis Spasticity Speech disorder Speech impairment Spermatocele Spider vein Spigelian hernia Spinal arthritis Spinal cord compression Spinal cord disease Spinal cord injury Spinal cord tumor Spinal deformity Spinal injury Spinal muscular atrophy Spinal neurofibromas Our approach to Spinal Stenosis Spinal stenosis of thoracic region Spindle cell sarcoma Spine compression fractures Our approach to Spine Compression Fractures Spine fracture Spine infection Spine metastases Spine pain Spinocerebellar ataxia Spleen cyst Spleen disorder Spleen injury Spleen mass Spondyloarthropathy Our approach to Spondylolisthesis Our approach to Spondylolysis Spondylosis Sports concussion Sports hernia Sports injury Sprain Sprained finger Squamous cell cancer of head or neck Staghorn calculus Staphylococcal infections Our approach to Staphylococcal Infections Stargardt disease Status epilepticus Steatohepatitis Stereotypic movement disorder Stiff person syndrome Our approach to Stomach Cancer Stomach disease Stomach polyp Stomach tumor Stomach ulcer Strep throat Stress Our approach to Stress Fractures Striato-nigral degeneration Our approach to Stridor Our approach to Stroke Structural disorder of heart Sturge weber syndrome Stye Our approach to Stye Subacromial bursitis Subacute thyroiditis Subaortic stenosis Subarachnoid hemorrhage Subdural bleeding Submandibular gland tumor Sudden deafness Sudden loss of vision Supraglottic cancer Our approach to Supraventricular Arrhythmias Swallowing aspiration Swallowing difficulty Our approach to Congenital Airway Abnormalities Swelling lymph nodes Swimmer's ear Swollen leg Synovial cyst Synovial sarcoma Syringomyelia Syrinx Our approach to Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Tailbone fracture Tardive dyskinesia Tarsal coalition Temporal arteritis Temporary vision loss Temporomandibular disorders Temporomandibular joint pain Tendon injury Tendon rupture Tension headache Our approach to Testicular Cancer Testicular inflammation Testosterone disorder Tethered cord syndrome Tethered spinal cord/ lipomeningocele Tetralogy of fallot Tetralogy of Fallot in Children Tfcc tears Thalassemia Thigh pain Third nerve palsy Thoracic aortic aneurysm Thoracic cancer Thoracic disc prolapse Thoracic disease Thoracic insufficiency syndrome Our approach to Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Thoracoabdominal aneurysm Thrombocytopenia Thromboembolism Thrombosis Thumb cmc/basal joint arthiritis Thymoma Thymus cancer Thyroglossal duct cyst Thyroid cancer Thyroid Nodules & Cancers Thyroid cancer lymphoma Thyroid disorder Graves’ Disease in Children Thyroid eye disease Thyroid mass Thyroid nodule Thyroid tumor Thyroiditis Tibial torsion Tic disorder Tingling Our approach to Tinnitus Tnf receptor-associated periodic fever syndrome Toeing-in Tongue cancer Tongue tie Tongue tumor Tonsil cancer Tonsil hypertrophy Tonsil stones Tonsillitis Torn rotator cuff Our approach to Torn Rotator Cuff Tourette disorder Our approach to Tourette Disorder Tracheal cancer Tracheal damage Tracheal stenosis Stridor in Children Transient ischemic attack Transitional cell carcinoma Transposition of great vessels Transverse myelitis Traumatic fracture Traumatic stress disorder Our approach to Traumatic Stress in Children Travel-related infections Our approach to Travel-Related Infections Tremor (any type) Triangular fibrocartilaginous complex tear Triceps injuries Triceps tendinitis Triceps tendon rupture Trichiasis Trichotillomania Tricuspid atresia Tricuspid valve disease Tricuspid valve insufficiency Our approach to Trigeminal Neuralgia Trigger finger Trophoblastic disease Truncus arteriosus Our approach to Tuberculosis Tuberous sclerosis Tumor of throat or palate Turner syndrome Type 1 diabetes mellitus Our approach to Type 2 Diabetes Ulcer disease, gastrointestinal Our approach to Ulcerative Colitis in Children Ulnar collateral ligament tear Our approach to Ulnar Nerve Compression Umbilical hernia Undescended testicle Our approach to Undescended Testicles in Children Unexplained visual loss Unspecified brain disease Upper airway resistance syndrome Upper tract urothelial cancer Ureter cancer Ureteral fistula Ureteral obstruction Ureteral stenosis Our approach to Ureteral Stricture Ureteral vaginal fistula Ureterocele Ureteropelvic junction (upj) obstruction Urethral cancer Urethral diverticulectomy Urethral fistula Urethral prolapse Urethral stricture Our approach to Urethral Stricture Urgency and frequency of urination Urinary diversion Urinary tract cancer Our approach to Urinary Tract Infections Urinary tract obstruction: prenatal and postnatal Urolithiasis Urothelial cancer Uterine cancer Uterine sarcoma Uveitis Vaginal abnormalities Vaginal adhesions Vaginal atrophy Vaginal birth after cesarean Our approach to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean Vaginal bleeding Our approach to Vaginal Cancer Vaginal cyst Vaginal infection Vaginal problems Vaginal septum Vaginitis Valvular heart disease Varices, gastrointestinal Varicocele Our approach to Varicose Veins Vascular anomalies Vascular disease Vascular lesions Vascular malformations in the torso & limbs Our approach to Vascular Malformations in the Torso & Limbs Vascular/venous malformation of head or neck Vascular, bony, and soft tissue injuries to the upper extremities Our approach to Vasculitis Velopharyngeal insufficiency Veno-occlusive disease Venous disease Venous insufficiency Venous malformation Ventral hernia Our approach to Ventricular Arrhythmias Ventricular septal defect Ventricular tachycardia Vertebral foraminal stenosis Vertical talus Our approach to Vertigo Vesicoureteral reflux Vesicovaginal fistula Vestibular diseases Vestibular migraine Vestibular neuritis Vexas syndrome Viral infection Visual field defect Vitamin b12 deficiency Vitamin d deficiency Vitiligo Our approach to Vitiligo Vitreomacular traction Vocal cord cancer Vocal cord cyst or nodule Vocal cord inflammation Vocal cord papilloma / laryngeal papilloma Vocal cord paralysis Vocal cord polyp Vocal fatigue Voice changes Voice disorder Voice loss Von hippel landau with neurological involvement Von willebrand disease Vulvar disease Vulvodynia Wart Watery eye Weakness Weight loss Whiplash White blood cell disorders Our approach to Wilms Tumor in Children Wilson's disease Winged scapula Wolfram syndrome Wrinkles and fine lines Wrist & hand repetitive use injuries Our approach to Wrist & Hand Repetitive Use Injuries Wrist arthritis Wrist bursitis Wrist fracture Wrist injury Wrist pain Wrist sprain Wrist tendinitis Wry neck Y Yeast infection Z Zenker's diverticulum Zollinger-ellison syndrome (zes) Jump to conditions starting with: Has conditions beginning with this letter. No conditions beginning with this letter. The NYU Langone Health app puts the highest-quality care in your hands, making the entire experience of accessing your medical records, scheduling appointments, and contacting your care team seamless. With the app, it’s easier and faster to manage care for you and your family. It keeps all of your health information in one place, and you can quickly connect with your care team. Download the NYU Langone Health app on the Simply log in with your —creating one takes just minutes—and you’ll have the expertise of NYU Langone’s specialists in your pocket, whenever you need them. If you don’t yet have a MyChart account, you can Your Convenient Care Connection When it comes to your health, having the right support makes all the difference. With the NYU Langone Health app, everything you need for a smooth and successful care journey is just a tap away. From the home screen, it’s simple to: schedule or change your appointments view your test results and clinical notes message with your care team see your medications Plus, the app gives you convenient tools to: see your full electronic health record manage bill payments manage care for others share information with other providers These tools are easy to find and use, deliver important updates as soon as possible, and keep you informed and ready for what’s next. Need to make an NYU Langone Health appointment? Whether you’re seeing a new doctor or coming for a check-up with your current provider, the app’s scheduling feature makes it simple to pick the date and time that works for you. VIDEO: Learn how to use the app to schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone provider. Find a Doctor Through the App With the NYU Langone Health app, finding the right doctor is easier than ever. You can conveniently search more than 4,000 providers by specialty, location, and insurance coverage, and in just a few taps select the best match for your needs. VIDEO: You can use the NYU Langone Health app to easily find a primary care doctor, specialist, or other healthcare provider. Support at Every Step The NYU Langone Health app ensures that you get the most helpful guidance throughout your care experience. You’ll receive ongoing personalized assistance, including videos and instructions to help you prepare and recover, important tasks and key reminders to stay on track, and more. You’ll know what to expect, stress less, and have help by your side. From testing and diagnosis through treatment and recovery, you’ll know what to expect, stress less, and always have help by your side. VIDEO: The NYU Langone Health app helps you manage your care with useful tools at every step of the way. Virtual Urgent Care: Skip the Waiting Room Sore throat? UTI? Mystery rash? Child running a fever? Same-day treatment for many non-emergency conditions is now available with a video visit. You’ll be connected with an NYU Langone Health provider for a convenient consultation using your mobile device, to receive a diagnosis, guidance on treatment, and follow-up instructions. It’s an invaluable option that’s easy to access whenever you need—right in your app. VIDEO: When you need same-day care for a non-emergency condition, NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care has you covered. Shared Access: Simple and Secure If you’d like to share your MyChart medical information with a loved one—or receive access to your child’s health record—the app makes it simple. With the Friends and Family Access feature, you can decide whether to give each person full or limited access. You can also request your children’s health records if they’re 11 years old or younger. At age 12, your children can easily grant you access. Plus, the app lets you temporarily share your medical information with any healthcare providers who need it. You always have control over your private information, how much you share, and who sees it. Stay In the Know, On the Go With the NYU Langone Health app, you’re connected to everything you need, anywhere you are. It’s the most convenient way to manage your care, be in touch with your care team, feel prepared at every step, and stay well-supported throughout your health journey. Apps 1138548_RR00100829 Program Coordinator – MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund Job ID: 1138548_RR00100829 Shift: 9am-5pm TOV – Operations (S324) The Program Coordinator position is part of the NYU Langone Health and New York University’s Technology, Opportunities & Ventures (TOV) team. TOV is dedicated to accelerating the commercialization of breakthrough innovations in healthcare by translating cutting-edge research into real-world applications. TOV supports the development of novel technologies across a wide range of areas, including medical devices, digital health, diagnostics, and therapeutics. The ideal candidate is highly organized and experienced with strong project management skills and excellent communication abilities to ensure the successful execution of these initiatives. The Program Coordinator will play a key role in overseeing the operational aspects of the NYULH MedTech Venture Prototyping (MVP) Fund, helping to advance MedTech innovations from concept through prototyping, testing, and validation. The ideal candidate will be highly organized, skilled in project management, and able to handle multiple projects simultaneously, ensuring they are completed on time and within scope. Strong written and verbal communication skills are essential to collaborate effectively with cross-functional teams, stakeholders, and external partners. Program Coordination & Administration: Oversee planning coordination and execution of internally awarded projects with internal and external stakeholders Organize and manage all project activities from initiation to completion ensuring timely delivery and alignment with project goals Develop and manage detailed project schedules track milestones and ensure efficient execution Handle purchase requisitions reimbursements expense reports and invoice payments in accordance with project budgets and NYULH policies Collaborate with TOV internal teams to establish project budgets before any work begins ensuring that financial requirements are met Track project spending throughout the lifecycle ensuring adherence to approved budgets and timelines Regular budget status updates identify potential overruns and implement corrective actions as needed Continuously assess and recommend improvements to program workflows and budgeting processes to optimize efficiency and reduce cycle times Work with the TOV team to streamline processes and implement best practices to improve overall program performance Proposal & Award Management: Support outreach to the NYULH research and clinical community to solicit project proposals for MVP funding Assist in the review evaluation and selection of funded proposals Manage documentation and paperwork for internal and external grants ensuring compliance with submission guidelines Provide operational support for new MedTech programs including digital health innovation accelerators and MedTech incubation programs Collaborate with internal teams stakeholders and external partners to ensure smooth project setup and execution Monitor project progress ensuring timelines milestones and deliverables are met Identify potential issues early and collaborate with stakeholders to resolve them ensuring projects remain on track and within scope Prepare and review status/progress reports presentations and formal correspondence for ongoing projects Summarize key findings metrics and deviations from the plan in clear comprehensive reports Respond to routine inquiries escalate non routine matters and ensure compliance with relevant policies and procedures CRO Management & Contracting: Identify engage and work with Contract Research Organizations CROs to obtain quotes and support MVP projects Participate in the assessment selection and contracting of CROs Monitor CRO performance review deliverables and ensure adherence to project specifications Facilitate the close out of contracts with CROs at project completion NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements The salary range for the role is 58 000 64 000 annually Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors including experience specialty education and business need The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in business administration, health care administration or related field or an equivalent combination of education and relevant experience. Proficiency in using various Microsoft Office applications such as Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint and Outlook. Familiar with Internet applications. Effective oral, written, communication, interpersonal skills. Ability to interface effectively with all levels of management and must work and communicate effectively with both internal and external customers. Ability to work within a team environment as well as independently. Time management skills and ability to work well under pressure. Ability to Project/Program manage and to multi task while paying attention to details. referred Qualifications: MS, PhD or comparable degree in a relevant field of sciences required. Two or more years of experience in research or R&D in the medtech field. Experience in participation and project management in R&D collaborations. Excellent organizational and communication skills (written and verbal). Strong inter-personal skills and ability to work on collaborative projects. Intellectual curiosity and ability to rapidly acquire an understanding across multiple biomedical disciplines. Energetic, self-starter and strong problem solving skills. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350 – $64,350 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1129962_RR00092837 Job ID: 1129962_RR00092837 Shift: 7PM – 8AM, 3 days a week (variable) Department: Polysomnography, NYU Comprehensive Epilepsy (H1755) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist II. In this role, the successful candidate Using general supervision of the Director, will show significant expertise in performing all aspects of Polysomnography for both clinical and research patients. At this level, the technologist should be familiar with commonly used drugs to manage sleep disorders. Recognize interactions which could have an adverse effect on the patient and bring this information to the appropriate M.D. or Ph.D. Have a good working knowledge of sleep hygiene techniques in order to augment and re-enforce recommendations made at the initial consultation. Recognize and diagnose apneas when performing NPSG. On an appointment basis, technologist will perform mask fittings in order to optimize patient satisfaction with the CPAP machine. Technologist will write and adapt protocols as needed, score, train staff on new equipment, and transfer data to the optical disk storage system Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Collect, analyze, and integrate patient information in order to identify and meet the patient-specific needs (physical/mental limitations, current emotional/physiological status regarding the testing procedure, pertinent medical/social history), and to determine final testing parameters/procedures in conjunction with the ordering physician or clinical director and laboratory protocols. Complete and verify documentation. Explain pre-testing, testing, and post-testing procedures to the patient. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine and complex equipment care and maintenance. Evaluate sleep study related equipment and inventory. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Demonstrate the ability to analyze complex situations and apply policy. Comply with the BRPT Standards of Conduct. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Score sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Score clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals etc.) according to center specific protocols. Generate accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Oversees and performs difficult and unusual procedures and therapeutic interventions. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP, oxygen titration etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform Polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments if necessary. Perform positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. To qualify you must have a (1) NYS OP License and current registration as a Polysomnographic Technologist, OR, (2) NYS OP License and current registration as a Registered Respiratory Therapy competent to perform Polysomnographic Technology services. 5 years experience in field of Polysomnography None NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $89,273.58 – $90,313.57 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. You can help give the gift of life by choosing to become an organ or tissue donor. One organ donor can help save up to eight lives, and one tissue donation can save or improve the lives of more than 75 people. The decision to become an organ or tissue donor does not interfere with the healthcare you receive—saving your life is your NYU Langone doctor’s first priority. VIDEO: More than 8,000 people in the New York City metro area are currently on the organ transplant waitlist. Our Transplant Institute is committed to helping those in need of a new heart, liver, kidney, or lungs. All people can be considered as potential organ, tissue, and eye donors at the time of death. Organs and tissues are distributed through federally or state-authorized organ and tissue banks, and donating your organs does not cost your family any money. Enroll Online Donate Life national registry is a confidential, online database that records a person’s own legal consent to organ, tissue, and eye donation upon his or her death. If you live in New York State, More Information about Organ and Tissue Donation LiveOnNY , a nonprofit organization dedicated to the recovery of organs and tissue for transplant in the greater New York metropolitan area, offers resources to learn more about donation. For information about organ transplantation at NYU Langone, learn more about our 1137701_RR00100405 Job ID: 1137701_RR00100405 Position Type: Part-Time Shift: 09:30 AM – 02:00 PM, Monday – Friday Department: Rehabilitation Therapy, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Physical Therapy – LI (W6147) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Rehabilitation Aide, Physical Therapy / Hospital. In this role, the successful candidate works as part of a team and under the direction of a supervising therapist to assist the professional staff at bedside or in the department in providing direct patient care that meets departmental patient care objectives and needs. Maintains the department and equipment in a clean and orderly state.. Assists with executing limited direct patient care duties related to Physical and/or Occupational Therapy as directed by the supervising therapist Participates in maintaining the cleanliness of the department and adequate levels of departmental supplies Promotes and maintains patient safety via appropriate and safe guarding techniques proper body mechanics and equipment inspection Assists the supervising therapist with patient set up and preparation for treatment To qualify, you must have a High School or GED. Excellent communication both oral and written skills Current and valid BLS or CPR certification from the American Heart Association. 1 – 2 years Hospital Inpatient or Orthopedic Outpatient Rehabilitation setting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $23.16 – $25.20 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138441_RR00100684 Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138441_RR00100684 Shift: Tuesday-Saturday 10AM-6PM Rehab PT and OT (L177476) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Physical Therapist I – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate Responsible for evaluating physical therapy needs and implementing comprehensive medically prescribed physical therapy treatment to assigned patients in a supervises program of rehabilitation OTHER: Maintains a professional appearance and demonstrates appropriate professionalism during job performance Performs other duties as assigned ASSESSMENT AND EVALUATION: Initial Assessment and Evaluation of Physical Therapy needs for specifically assigned patient populations Reviews medical chart to ascertain important medical information and clarifies referral/Treatment orders if necessary for unfamiliar diagnosis Selects appropriate assessment tools and methods in order to accurately determine the patient s status for developing optimal treatment plan Demonstrates effective clinical decision making and implements changes/adaptations to the Treatment Plan when appropriate DOCUMENTATION: Completes all required documentation for patient care and reimbursement Completes and plans all required documentation in medical chart as required by Department guidelines and JACHO/CARF requirements Clinical Documentation is through and completes using appropriate medical and clinical terminology Accurately records all treatment given including completion of the daily treatment record EDUCATION AND SUPERVISION: Participates in Clinical Education of Fieldwork students and other professional educational endeavors Teaches and supervises assigned students in the appropriate techniques skills and procedures Demonstrates a genuine interest in assisting students in enhancing their knowledge and skill levels Encourages positive learning experiences for Career Opportunity Students and other Non Fieldwork students PATIENT PROGRESS: Evaluates patient s progress and response to therapy and modifies treatment intervention as needed INTERVENTIONS: Implements Treatment Plans and Protocol according to current professional and health system standards Establishes achievable and appropriate treatment goals with patient and family Considers a variety of validated treatment approaches and rationales for achievement of patient goals Selects appropriate technical aids/assistive devices and correctly refers patients to other clinical services to achieve stated program/team treatment goals Assesses educational needs of patient families and implements a variety of methods for patient/family education and training during rehabilitation process To qualify you must have a Bachelor s Degree in Physical Therapy New York State Physical Therapy License or temporary permit Good communication and interpersonal skills 0 1 years experience as a Physical Therapist New York State License in Physical Therapy CPR certification. Phys Thrpst Temp Permit-NYS, Phys Thrpst License-NYS Master s Degree in Physical Therapy or related field Language skills in addition to English preferred Computer data entry skills 1138605_RR00100820 Job ID: 1138605_RR00100820 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Nursing Attendant-Central Nursing Service-Flex Shift (37.5 Hours) Assists with Admission/Transfer/Discharge of patients: Orients patient to hospital environment. Provides patient with toileting supplies. Assists patient to remove clothes, complete property check list and safeguard personal property through Security. Assists in transfer of patients by gathering belongings, completion of clothing list and assisting in moving the patient. Prepares bedside unit to receive patients. Discharges: Assists patient to dress and pack personal belongings. Escorts patient as necessary and remains with the patient until he/she has left the building. Conducts patient rounds for toileting, positioning, comfort, safety and personal needs. Answers patient call lights and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed. Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission, as ordered, and/or as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patients condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the health care team. Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended.Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or equivalent Required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant program or minimum 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification. (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) OR Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills.. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48,102.66 – $50,901.02 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Visit Us View All Locations Inpatient Locations We offer world-class inpatient medical care delivered by a team focused on your health and wellbeing. We deliver the highest quality care in an environment designed with comfort, privacy, and safety in mind. We are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions and injuries that have an impact on the way your body moves. We partner with children and families to provide the most advanced care for children in the New York City area. We are the hospital of choice for adults and children seeking expert inpatient and outpatient care in Brooklyn. We provide the highest level of inpatient and outpatient care throughout our network of Long Island healthcare facilities. Outpatient Locations From the most advanced treatments to access to clinical trials, we offer the latest in cancer care and support. Our experts provide treatments that help increase your mobility, relieve pain, and improve your quality of life. We provide comprehensive, compassionate outpatient care for a wide range of pediatric conditions. We offer an array of primary and specialty care to address your health concerns at one convenient location. We offer personalized healthcare at one convenient location. Our location houses a variety of doctors’ offices and outpatient services. We offer a comprehensive array of primary and specialty care—all in one convenient location. Located near New York City’s Theatre District, we provide the west side of Manhattan with specialty medical care. High-quality, affordable healthcare is available at our community- and school-based locations. View Full Locations Directory You can see a doctor, schedule an appointment, access your medical records, and more using the NYU Langone Health app. Just log in with your MyChart username and password. Learn more about the Centralized Application Container Management Service Centralized Application Container Management Service Questionnaire PDX – Community Based Referral Platform NYU Langone invites you (Vendor) to submit a quote in accordance with the requirements, terms, and conditions in this RFP for available community based referral platform solutions designed to support real time visibility into referral activity and specific case outcomes that are bidirectional between NYU Langone and the CBO, with integration to Epic. This RFP process is your opportunity to demonstrate your strong commitment to partnering with NYU Langone and ensures highly competitive pricing with quality customer support services. This RFP solicits a detailed offering that includes line item pricing as well as a detailed response regarding your corporate profile, services, capabilities, and contract/payment terms compliance. We encourage you to submit a quote that is aggressively priced which will exceed our expectations and influence the consolidation of our Vendors and market share. Additional Questions Due : October 23, 2023, 5:00pm NYULH Answers to Questions Due : October 26, 2023, 5:00pm Proposal Due : November 10, 2023, 5:00pm All Proposals are due by November 10, 2023 no later than 5:00 P.M. EST. Send your complete electronic response via email to: ITSourcing@nyulangone.org with the subject line “PDX - Community Based Referral Platform RFP” Interested parties who need additional information or have questions about this RFP must be submitted via email to on or before 5 PM (EST) on October 23, 2023 with the subject line “NYU Langone Community Based Referral Platform RFP QUESTIONS.” All questions and responses will be shared with all vendors on November 10, 2023. There are no Requests for Quotes at this time. Please check back soon. Schedule a video visit online or call your doctor’s office during business hours. For help finding a doctor, call our physician referral service at You don’t always need to come in to the doctor’s office to see your doctor. Many NYU Langone doctors and care providers offer video visits, letting you video chat with your doctor from home or wherever is convenient for you. Video visits are available for adults and for children of all ages, and are available to new patients in addition to those who already have an NYU Langone doctor. How to Schedule a Video Visit To schedule a video visit instead of an in-office visit, you can find a doctor and schedule online , or log into your and select a member of your care team to schedule. You can also schedule a video visit by calling your doctor’s office during business hours. Video visits are subject to regulations that vary by state. When scheduling a video visit, you must see a provider who is licensed in the state that you will be in during the time of your visit. Most of our physicians are licensed in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Florida. Our office will contact you ahead of your visit, or you can call us at , to confirm we can complete your visit. Schedule a video visit or an in-person appointment, access your medical records, and more by logging into the app with your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. What to Expect During a Video Visit A video visit is similar to an in-office visit, but instead of traveling to see your doctor, you can video chat with them from home, work, or another convenient location. Our care providers can assess symptoms, make a diagnosis, recommend treatment, and send prescriptions to your pharmacy. Video visits take place through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can VIDEO: Learn what to expect during your video visit and how to access your visit using the NYU Langone Health mobile app. When it’s time for your video visit, you can join the appointment by logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account using the app, up to 10 minutes before your scheduled appointment time. Select the Appointments icon on the app’s home screen to access the video chat with your doctor. Types of Video Visit Appointments Our doctors and other healthcare providers offer video visits across a wide range of specialties. Some examples of appointments that can be held over video include new patient visits, follow-up visits, mental health visits, physical therapy visits occupational therapy visits speech–language pathology therapy visits , and postoperative appointments. VIDEO: Dr. Julie Han, a sports health expert, discusses how video visits allow her to connect with her patients and provide the same high level of care. Video visits cannot be used for appointments that require physical examinations, such as annual physicals or annual gynecological appointments. If you have questions about whether a video visit is right for you at this time, speak with your doctor’s office. Computer Requirements The NYU Langone Health mobile app is only available for mobile devices. If you would like to use a computer instead of a mobile device, please make sure it has a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection. Internet Explorer and Google Chrome web browsers are compatible with this service. If this is your or your child’s first video visit, please accept the download for the VidyoWeb plug-in when you start your visit. Cost and Insurance Options Many insurance providers now cover telemedicine services for adults and children. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telemedicine services under your benefit plan. Your doctor’s office can help you to determine if a video visit is covered by your insurance provider, and we also recommend speaking with your insurance provider directly if you have questions. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance, as we would for an in-person appointment. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Schedule appointments, access your medical records, and more by logging into the NYU Langone Health App with your MyChart account. Virtual Doctor Visits a Big Help for Breast Cancer Survivor Video Visits: A Convenient & ‘Good Experience’ for Patient Video Visits Help Woman Regain Wrist Movement After Surgery How Hospitals Are Responding to New Mental Health Trends Brain Surgery & Rehabilitation Save a 13-Year-Old’s Life Virtual Visit Was a ‘Pleasant Surprise’ for Lupus Patient The Neurologist Will See You Now, Virtually We have locations throughout the New York City area. Learn more about scheduling an appointment NYU Langone’s radiology experts provide high-quality, safe imaging services to more than 300,000 people each year in the New York City area. We have more than 230 board-certified radiologists who interpret imaging results for patients and referring physicians; 65 physicians-in-training; and more than 1,400 technologists, nurses, and physician assistants working together to meet the highest standard of care every day. Our experts have access to the most advanced imaging technologies available. Medical imaging is a specialized science that requires experience and expertise, with a focus on each individual patient. We ensure your safety by adhering to guidelines to protect you from unnecessary amounts of radiation. We make sure that you receive high-quality images by using state-of-the art equipment. And, our radiologists specialize in imaging specific types of patients or certain parts of the body, such as musculoskeletal, breast, and pediatric imaging. subspecialties of our physicians , our , and our training programs Refer a patient to NYU Langone for an imaging test. Accommodations for People with Disabilities We accommodate patients with disabilities, including but not limited to those who are blind, have low vision, or have other sensory impairments; those with physical disabilities; those who are deaf, deaf and blind, or hard of hearing; and those who have mental impairments. When scheduling an appointment, please let us know if you have a disability so that we can best serve you. Introducing the First Patient-Friendly Radiology Report Video Radiology Reports Valuable for Patient Understanding Fat Tissue Helps Screen for Invasive Breast Cancer Radiologists Playing Bigger Role in Medical Care Simultaneous PET/MRI Improves Accuracy for Bladder Cancer There are no Requests for Proposals at this time. Please check back soon. Explore a listing of some of the bid requests and proposals related to federal grants, including Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants, that are open for bidding and response. Price-based sourcing selection for compliant bids from approved vendors or new vendors that need to include their qualifications. Best-value sourcing selection using evaluation criteria for approved vendors or new vendors that need to include qualifications. Public Notice Magnet Recognition Program® Site Visit NYU Langone Hospitals was designated as a Magnet organization in 2005, 2009, 2014, and 2019 by the ANCC Magnet Recognition Program®. This prestigious designation recognizes excellence in nursing services. In April 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals is applying for re-designation. Patients, family members, staff, and interested parties who would like to provide comments are encouraged to do so. Anyone may send comments via e-mail and direct mail. Your comments must be received by the Magnet Program Office by April 5, 2024. NOTE: All comments are CONFIDENTIAL and are not shared with the health care organization. Comments may be anonymous, but they must be sent in writing to the Magnet Program Office. AMERICAN NURSES CREDENTIALING CENTER (ANCC) MAGNET RECOGNITION PROGRAM OFFICE 8515 Georgia Ave., Suite 400 Silver Spring, MD 20910-3492 E-Mail: magnet@ana.org For information about a security incident experienced by one of our vendors, Change Healthcare, that impacted its customer data, please read their HIPAA Website Substitute Notice Where innovation meets individualized care. Find an Orthopedic Doctor When to See an Orthopedic Doctor Meet Our Orthopedic Doctors Our Areas of Expertise Pioneers in Orthopedic Treatment, Partners in Your Recovery At NYU Langone Orthopedics, we treat every bone, muscle, joint, tendon, and ligament, whether the diagnosis is a routine injury or complex condition. From medications to surgery, we use advanced approaches—many developed right here—that help you return to your everyday activities. In our orthopedic surgery program alone, we perform more than 34,000 procedures each year. Our locations across New York City, Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey, and Florida make it easy to access care at NYU Langone, ranked among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics by Should you see someone for that dull ache or sharp pain in your joints, bones, or muscles? Learn When to See Us Patient Story “I feel 20 years younger,” says Steven Sandberg after his spine surgery. “Dr. Fischer did an amazing job.” Orthopedic Conditions We Treat from Head to Toe We draw from our own experiences with movement and injury to provide you with expert care. From common injuries to complex diagnoses, learn more about the orthopedic conditions we treat. Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tears Hand Sprains and Strains Hip and Pelvic Fractures Knee Sprains and Strains Shoulder and Elbow Fractures Wrist and Hand Repetitive Use Injuries View More Conditions We Treat Care for Children, Beyond Bones and Muscles , a part of , families are the focus of orthopedic care. We manage everyday injuries and complex conditions, while supporting your child’s social and emotional needs. Our doctors prioritize nonsurgical approaches whenever possible. When surgery is necessary, we use the most advanced techniques to ensure a rapid recovery and help your child return to an active life. Learn About Pediatric Orthopedic Care Number 3 in Orthopedics U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Cancer Treatment That Preserves Physical Function Our orthopedic surgeons work with the team at —musculoskeletal, medical, and radiation oncologists, specialized radiologists, and reconstructive surgeons—to care for the rarest of bone and soft tissue tumors. Together, we look beyond treatment to prioritize patients’ functional goals and quality of life. Learn About Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Care Our Areas of Orthopedic Expertise Our orthopedic doctors offer an array of specialized services, programs, and centers to meet all your bone, joint, and muscle care needs. Foot and Ankle Care Orthopedic Trauma and Fracture Shoulder and Elbow Care View More Areas of Expertise View All Areas of Expertise Setting Standards for Rehabilitation Our physical and occupational therapy services are offered through Rusk Rehabilitation, which has a legacy of defining orthopedic rehabilitation standards. Learn About Rehabilitation Services We provide integrated and individualized cancer care for adults and children. Find a Cancer Doctor & Schedule 212-731-6000 Types of Cancer We Treat Pediatric Cancer Care Planning Your Visit Setting New Standards for Excellence in Cancer Care At NYU Langone, our providers offer you personalized, whole-patient cancer care. Whether we recommend tried-and-true approaches, newly approved therapies, or cutting-edge clinical trials, treatment is based on the best-available science and medicine. With locations across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island, you don’t need to travel far for comprehensive cancer care. Our specialists seamlessly coordinate your treatment for cancer and beyond. From ongoing care for a preexisting condition to support for you and your family, we provide one standard of excellence. Patient-Centered Treatment Starts Here We’re one team—doctors, nurses, social workers, and other specialists—dedicated to your care and a healthy outcome. We’re Here for You at Every Step Cancer Prevention Cancer Screening Centers and Programs Survivorship High-Quality, Innovative Cancer Care Comprehensive, Research-Based Care Explore how Perlmutter Cancer Center’s National Cancer Institute Comprehensive Cancer Center designation ensures you receive research-based care for your unique needs. Innovative Technologies Learn how our doctors combine the latest treatments—such as advanced radiation therapy and targeted immune and cell therapies—with real-time imaging to monitor cancer response. Cutting-Edge Clinical Trials Discover Perlmutter Cancer Center’s extensive and rapidly growing number of clinical trials, which give you access to the most-advanced treatments. Support for You and Your Family Explore support services for you and your family members, friends, and other caregivers, who are a valued part of the care team. Cancer Care in Your Community View our locations throughout New York City and Long Island, where we make cancer care as convenient as possible. Integrated Care Across the Health System From a cancer diagnosis and treatment to inpatient and outpatient support services, access care in our one network, with one electronic health record, via MyChart. The Future of Cancer Care, Today As an NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, Perlmutter Cancer Center provides research-based approaches to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. Our clinical trials are shaping the future of cancer care and improving access to state-of-the-art, personalized treatments. Designed to advance the science of cancer care, clinical trials offer a chance for a better outcome, especially for cancers that do not respond well to traditional therapies. By combining forward-thinking treatment strategies with the latest diagnostic tools, we monitor the cancer’s response and optimize your care. Why Choose Perlmutter Cancer Center NYU Langone’s Exceptional Approach to Every Cancer Type From cancer prevention through diagnosis, treatment, and beyond, our providers offer dedicated programs and services for each cancer type. We put your quality of life first and consistently deliver the best possible outcomes. Brain and Spine Tumor Center Breast Cancer Center Cancer Rehabilitation Center for Blood Cancers CyberKnife Center High-Risk Cancer Genetics Program Lung Cancer Center Melanoma Services Prostate Cancer Center Survivorship Program Thyroid Program View More Areas of Cancer Expertise View All Areas of Cancer Expertise The Kinds of Cancers We Treat Our doctors offer advanced, personalized care across all types of cancer, including those of the breast, lung, prostate, brain, and spine. When you receive care at NYU Langone, our compassionate providers build our treatment team around you—and your healthy outcome. View All Cancers We Treat The Cancer Care You Need, Where You Need It At Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute–designated Comprehensive Care Center, we offer the most advanced care at 37 locations throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. As Brooklyn’s only NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, we provide ever-expanding services to communities of the city’s largest borough. We bring top cancer care closer to home, so you can focus on your health. Here’s where you can find us. “It’s one thing to get medical treatment that is excellent. But it’s another thing when people go above and beyond. They took care of me physically, emotionally, and spiritually.” Read Our Stories Ranked Among the Top 20 Cancer Centers in the Nation ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks Perlmutter Cancer Center among the top 20 in the nation. Doctors at the Forefront of Their Fields Our compassionate physicians are leaders in their cancer specialties and committed to achieving the very best treatment outcomes. Medical, radiation, and surgical oncologists and other specialists seamlessly collaborate across our health system to support your whole health. View All Cancer Specialists Transforming Cancer Care with Education and Research Our doctors are dedicated to training the next generation of oncologists and to leading basic, translational, and clinical research to define new standards for cancer treatment. Cancer Education & Training Cancer Research Cancer News and Breakthroughs Explore the Latest Developments from Our Experts We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Westchester County. 646-933-3931 At NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction, our experts provide specialized care for people with limb loss. Our surgeons partner with occupational therapists, prosthetists, and mental health professionals to help you achieve the maximum level of movement and function after amputation. We recognize that limb loss not only affects physical functioning, but also psychological and emotional wellbeing. We bring together a team that can identify and address any barriers to regaining mobility and independence. Our mission is to empower you to more seamlessly engage in your activities and move through everyday life. VIDEO: Meet the multidisciplinary care team at NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction. Limb Loss Rehabilitation Rehabilitation medicine specialists provide care and support as you continue your recovery. Our surgeons specialize in the most advanced surgical techniques and prosthetic technologies, and work together with you to understand your goals and attain the best possible outcome. We offer options that help to reduce pain, treat phantom limb sensation, and improve the movement and control of an amputated limb with prosthesis. These procedures include the following: targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR), a surgical procedure that minimizes chronic pain and helps with prosthesis control creation of regenerative peripheral nerve interfaces within the amputated limb to stimulate nerves, help manage pain and improve prosthetic function revision surgery of the amputated limb and nerve procedures to ease pain that results from an ill-fitting prosthesis osseointegration, a procedure in which the prosthesis is integrated and permanently implanted into the bone fitting of a myoelectric prosthesis, which uses electrodes to pick up and respond to electrical impulses that are created when muscles are flexed Our surgeons collaborate with a team that includes on-site occupational therapists and prosthetists to tailor care to your specific needs and priorities. Our prosthetists are highly experienced in providing an array of prosthetic devices for all levels of limb loss and assist in surgical planning to ensure optimal fit, integration, and comfort. Our occupational therapists recognize the roles, activities, and personal experiences that are most meaningful to you in developing a treatment and rehabilitation plan. Our team of experts collaborates to ensure people with limb loss receive the care they need. After surgery, we can refer you to , where specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation, physical and occupational therapy, psychology, social work, and vocational rehabilitation provide you with so you can continue your recovery. Continuing Medical Education NYU Langone regularly hosts continuing medical education (CME) events designed to help doctors and other medical professionals develop, maintain, and increase their knowledge and skills. Our next event, Bionic Reconstruction Conference (BReCON): The Future of Integrated Upper Limb Surgical and Prosthetic Innovation , takes place on November 30, 2023 from 7:00AM to 5:00PM at NYU Langone Health Alumni Hall, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016. Register for this conference and learn more about all of our CME events For questions about our services, call 646-933-3931 or email Wendy Razzi, program coordinator, at Wendy.Razzi@NYULangone.org If you are a prosthetist who would like to refer a patient, please call 718-440-5307 Show Menu Specialties Cardiology & Heart Surgery Diabetes & Endocrinology Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Neurology & Neurosurgery Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Urology Case of the Month Physician Resources Expert Perspectives Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Dr. Shridar Ganesan and Dr. Alec Kimmelman discuss how the new Center for Molecular Oncology could transform patient care. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing A big-picture approach to molecular oncology could reveal new therapeutic targets, improve diagnostic testing, and transform patient care. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Dr. Anne S. Renteria joins NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island to boost access to state-of-the-art cell therapies. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Dr. Shridar Ganesan on how the tools of molecular oncology can reshape cancerdiagnosis, treatment, and research. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Her team's research highlights the benefits of plant-based eating for cancer prevention and enhancing the health of survivors. Practice-Changing Medicine Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System Perlmutter Cancer Center’s new program ensures that patients know their options—and have the opportunity to pursue them. In Conversation With Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Co-director of Thyroid Program discusses how we’re seeing a huge shift in the way we can take care of patients with thyroid disease. Explore More NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Cancer Ranked Among the Nation’s Best Cancer Centers An NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center 200+ active interventional therapeutic clinical trials Complex Case Spotlight Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Advanced Imaging Localizes Lesion & Rules Out Metastatic Disease About 11 years after a diagnosis of prostate cancer treated with radiation therapy, a patient presented with progressively rising PSA levels. Multiparametric MRI revealed a lesion in the left medial posterior base peripheral zone; a subsequent MRI-ultrasound fusion biopsy demonstrated prostate cancer in 1 of 12 systematic cores and 3 of 3 targeted cores obtained from the lesion. An 18F-fluciclovine whole-body PET CT supported the conclusion of a local recurrence and found no evidence of metastatic disease. Prostate imaging. A) Axial T2 MRI scan showing PI-RADS 5 lesion. B) Apparent diffusion coefficient map with corresponding region of restricted diffusion. C) 18F-fluciclovine PET demonstrating uptake in the left posterior prostate. 1 of 3 Salvage Cryoablation Treats Prostate Cancer Recurrence Salvage partial gland cryoablation deploys the energy in a smaller and more focal treatment volume and at a slower rate to minimize the higher risk for side effects in a post-radiation setting. For the procedure, six V-probes were placed into the left posterior hemi-prostate, with six thermocouple probes at treatment boundaries to provide intraoperative temperature assessment of the margins. Post-ablation imaging. A) Pretreatment MRI. B) Four-year post-ablation MRI showing no evidence of tumor. 2 of 3 Post-Treatment PSA Monitoring Affirms Successful Cancer Therapy To be successful, salvage focal cryoablation requires careful patient selection and a meticulous treatment application; in addition, monitoring patients with serial PSA and MRI can provide essential clinical endpoints. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Read The Full Article The patient’s PSA levels. 3 of 3 Your Partner in Every Patient’s Care To refer a patient, call Subscribe for Updates in Cancer Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Select Your Interests The Best Experts and Latest Breakthroughs to receive updates on our pioneering research, innovations, expert perspectives, case studies, practice-changing medicine, and more. If you are a member of the media and interested in any of these stories, contact: Media Relations Office NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Expert Diagnosis Interventional Endocrinology Scar-Reducing or Scarless Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits right where the knot of a necktie would be and produces hormones that control your metabolism, growth, and development. At the Forefront of Care We were the first in New York City to offer radiofrequency ablation to treat large, noncancerous thyroid nodules and are among the first in the U.S. to use the technology to treat some small thyroid cancers. New Ablative Therapy We are the first in the New York State area to offer innovative nanosecond pulsed field ablation to treat thyroid nodules. Innovative Treatments NYU Langone is one of only a few medical centers in the United States to offer thyroid artery embolization as an alternative to surgery to treat extremely large goiters. Leaders in the Field Members of our team are among the founders of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, which has pioneered the use of nonsurgical thyroid procedures. Our team of doctors includes endocrinologists, surgeons, radiologists, interventional neurosurgeons, radiation and medical oncologists, and pathologists. Together, we treat a wide variety of thyroid conditions, including thyroid nodules and all types of thyroid cancer . We also treat A Full Spectrum of Care We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. Our doctors were among the first in the United States to offer three interventional, nonsurgical approaches to care: radiofrequency ablation (RFA), thyroid artery embolization, and nanosecond pulsed field ablation, or nsPFA. Our doctors are also experts in ethanol (alcohol) ablation of thyroid cysts. These interventional endocrinology procedures can reduce or eliminate scarring and help preserve healthy thyroid tissue, avoiding hypothyroidism, which is common following thyroid surgery. Interventional procedures are an excellent alternative to surgery for appropriately selected patients. In cases where conventional open surgery is required, our experts evaluate patients to identify opportunities to use advanced techniques that help to minimize visible scarring Personalized, Streamlined, High-Quality Treatment Our experts partner with you to create care plans tailored to your needs, providing the right treatment at the right time. From education about treatment options to creating seamless treatment plans that reduce the number of appointments needed, we support your individual healthcare goals. Whether you require a watchful waiting approach for a thyroid nodule , active surveillance of small thyroid cancers—which means watching closely without surgery— , an interventional procedure, or surgery, our specialists provide you with the highest quality of care. We thoughtfully combine new and evolving techniques in our care plans and offer patients access to innovative treatments. Our doctors are leaders in minimally invasive treatments for thyroid nodules and cancers. Sumedha Chablani Umamaheswar Duvvuri Alexander R. Goldberg Sapir N. Goldberg Steven Hodak Kenneth S. Hu Rachel Liou Endocrine Surgeon Lindsey E. Moses Melonie A. Nance Kepal N. Patel Michael J. Persky Jason D. Prescott Insoo Suh Theresa Tran Ruth A. White Head & Neck Oncologist From Cancer Patient to Med School Medical Dermatology Cosmetic Dermatology Hair Loss Services Surgical Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology Allergic & Contact Dermatology Skin of Color Services Skin Autoimmune Disorder Services Pigmented Lesions & Melanoma Services Our NYU Langone dermatologists are experts in the diagnosis of all skin cancers . We specialize in providing care for people who are at increased risk of developing , including people who have many pigmented lesions such as moles and atypical or dysplastic nevi, and people who have already had melanoma or who have a family history of the condition. Our team has a long history of leadership in the diagnosis of melanoma at its early, surgically curable stage. Most notably, doctors at NYU Langone developed the “ABCDE” method for identifying melanoma, which is now widely recognized. We also pioneered the use of standardized total body photography to monitor people at increased risk for melanoma, and dermoscopy and other noninvasive methods to improve the accuracy of our diagnoses of skin lesions that are suspected of being cancer. Our dermatologists are leaders in educating dermatologists-in-training and dermatologists throughout the world in these methods. We use the latest dermascopy tools that can identify cancerous lesions with great accuracy. Our patients benefit from our use of the latest noninvasive diagnostic methods and tools. These include total body photography to monitor people who have an increased number of pigmented skin lesions, and dermoscopy, which uses a handheld magnifier that allows dermatologists to look deeply into the skin. We also use sequential digital dermoscopic monitoring, which allows us to detect skin cancer at the earliest stages while performing fewer biopsies of harmless lesions. The latest addition to our noninvasive diagnostic toolkit is an imaging technology called reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM). RCM is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration–approved, noninvasive imaging tool that is designed to capture highly magnified images of the skin in real time, at a nearly microscopic level. It provides a more accurate diagnosis of melanoma than any other skin examination method. This leads to detection of very early stage melanomas, particularly on the face, and fewer biopsies of benign lesions. RCM may also be used as a guide for biopsies of large, atypical lesions on the face that may be a symptom of lentigo maligna, a slow-growing form of melanoma found on skin that has received a lot of sun damage. This tool can also be used for presurgical imaging of skin cancers that have been already biopsied. This allows our surgeons to use smaller margins of normal skin when removing skin cancers, preventing unnecessarily large scars in areas where tissue preservation is of importance—for example, on the face, hands, feet, or the genitals—and reducing the risk of local recurrence. When biopsy—the removal of a small skin sample—is necessary to analyze a suspicious lesion, our expert dermatopathologists provide quick and precise analysis, allowing you to receive an accurate diagnosis as soon as possible. Diagnosing and removing melanoma at its earliest stages offers you the best chance for a full recovery. Our Pigmented Lesions and Melanoma Team Our team of dermatologists has extensive experience in evaluating and diagnosing atypical nevi and melanoma. We collaborate actively with physicians as needed to provide the highest-quality care. Amanda Levine, MD Tracey Liebman, MD Dermatology, Melanoma Dermatology David Polsky, MD, PhD Jennifer A. Stein, MD, PhD Top quality and safety standards reflect our commitment to excellence and the best outcomes for our patients. NYU Langone Ranks No. 1 in the U.S. for Quality & Safety Read About Our Care Featured Care and Services Whether you need a routine checkup or heart valve replacement, our doctors help you reach and maintain your optimal health, while providing the highest standard of care and the most advanced treatment options. Our providers are your partners in helping you get and stay healthy. Get same-day treatment for common, non-emergency illnesses and injuries. From X-ray to MRI, our radiology experts offer the most advanced imaging services. Our orthopedic doctors provide exceptional care for conditions of the bones, joints, and muscles. Our cardiologists and cardiac surgeons work together to deliver seamless care. Brain and Spine Care We are leaders in the treatment of complex brain and spinal cord conditions. All Care and Services We have the expertise and provide the full range of patient care and services to meet all your healthcare needs. Specialists at offer the latest advances in cancer treatment. Care for children is provided through Search Care and Services 393 Results Abdominal Core Health & Hernia Program Learn About This Program Acute Care Surgery Addiction Psychiatry Adolescent Medicine Adrenal Surgery Program Learn About This Specialty Adult Hospital Medicine Adult Psychiatry Consult Airway Center Learn About This Center Alzheimer’s Disease & Related Dementias Family Support Program Anatomic Pathology Anesthesiology Anosmia Center Asthma Program Audiology Behcet’s Disease Center Blood Banking Bloodless Medicine & Surgery Program Learn About This Service Bone Health Bone Marrow Transplant Brain Injury Rehabilitation Breast Cancer Surgery Breast Imaging Breast Pathology Breast Plastic Surgery Bronchiectasis & NTM Program Cardiac Anesthesiology Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiac Imaging Cardio-Oncology Cardio-Rheumatology Care on Demand Center for Ankle Arthritis Center for Arthritis & Autoimmunity Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries Chest Imaging Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Child & Adolescent Psychology Child Protection Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Neuropsychology Clinical Pathology Cochlear Audiology Cornea External Disease & Refractive Surgery Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Critical Care Critical Care Anesthesiology Critical Care Surgery Cytopathology Dementia & Alzheimer's Dentistry Dermatologic Surgery Dermatopathology Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics Dietitian Nutritionist Endocrine Surgery Endourology & Stone Disease Esophageal Gastroenterology Executive Physicals Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Family Medicine Family Travel Medicine Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Foot & Ankle Surgery Forensic Pathology Gender Affirming Surgery General Pediatric Services in Manhattan Geriatric Cardiology Program Gout Treatment Center Gynecologic Oncology Hand Plastic Surgery Hand Therapy Hand & Wrist Surgery Headache Medicine Hearing & Balance Center Hematology Hematopathology Hip & Knee Reconstruction Infectious Disease Allergy and Immunology Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program Internal Medicine Interventional Pulmonology Laboratory Medicine Laryngology & Voice Liver Care & Transplant Program Lupus Center Lymphedema Therapy Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Medicaid Reenrollment Services Melanoma Dermatology Melanoma Surgery Microsurgery Musculoskeletal Imaging Nerve Center Neuro-Anesthesiology Neuro-Critical Care Neuroendocrinology Neuro-Genetics Neurointerventional Radiology Neurologic Therapy Neuromuscular Medicine Neuro-Oncology Neuro-Ophthalmology Neuro-Otology Neuropathology Neuropsychiatry Neuroradiology Nuclear Cardiology NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center NYU Langone Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Obesity Medicine Obstetric Anesthesiology Occupational Medicine Ocular Oncology Oncologic Imaging Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Optometry Oral-Maxillofacial Surgery Orthodontics Orthopedic Anesthesiology Orthopedic Rehabilitation Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Osteoporosis & Bone Health Program Osteoporosis & Osteopenia Otology & Neurotology Pain Rehabilitation Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Allergy Pediatric Allergy & Immunology Pediatric Anesthesiology Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Pediatric Critical Care Medicine Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Dietitian Nutritionist Pediatric Emergency Medicine Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Epilepsy Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapy Pediatric Gastroenterology & Hepatology Pediatric Hand Surgery Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Hospital Medicine Pediatric Infectious Disease Pediatric Neurology Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Pediatric Neuropsychology Pediatric Ophthalmology Pediatric Optometry Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Pathology Pediatric Pulmonology Pelvic Floor Therapy Podiatry Post-COVID Care Program Psoriatic Disease & Psoriatic Arthritis Psychosomatic Medicine Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Reconstructive Plastic Surgery Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Retinal Ophthalmology Rhinology Sarcoidosis Program Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Skin Allergy Dermatology Skin Autoimmune Disorders Skin & Cancer Unit Skull Base Surgery Sleep Disorders Program Sleep Medicine Speech Pathology Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Sports Occupational Therapy Sports Orthopedic Surgery Sports Physical Therapy Strabismus Surgical Oncology Swallow and Airway Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Thyroid Disorders TMJ Physical Therapy Toxicology Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Transgender Endocrinology Transplant Surgery Uro-Gynecology Urologic Oncology Vascular Neurology Vitreoretinal Surgery Work Conditioning Therapy Sharing Insights, Advancing Medicine Sign up for specialty updates on practice-changing ideas and innovations from our experts at NYU Langone Health. Explore by Specialty View More Latest Articles Mapping the Molecular Mechanisms of Stress & Depression Dr. Carla Nasca on how a mitochondrial metabolite could yield a new disease biomarker and precision medicine strategy. AI-Generated Responses to Patient Questions on Thyroid Disease Are Accurate & Empathetic Study suggests AI may help improve the efficiency of patient–provider messaging and reduce the clinician workload. Top Honors Awarded to Cardiovascular Researcher for Work on Inflammation Dr. Kathryn Moore discusses the pioneering research on chronic inflammation that earned her a prestigious prize. Advancing Science Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Using genetic markers, researchers devise a score to assess risk of thrombosis-related cardiovascular events. Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher discusses best practices for pediatric diabetes care. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Literature on vocal fold injury has focused on the mucosa; now, researchers spotlight the laryngeal muscles. Most Popular Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine A lead investigator behind the FDA approval of a new drug discusses its clinical advantages and research history. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries Study finds SARS-CoV-2 can infect vascular macrophages, promoting inflammation that may increase stroke, heart attack risks. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis New AI model for 3D images improves breast cancer screening while reducing computational complexity. 13 Nationally Ranked Specialties Across nearly every metric of hospital and outpatient quality, NYU Langone Health ranks at the top. As well as having the most top 10-ranked specialties in New York according to U.S. News & World Report, 13 specialties are ranked nationally – with nine ranked in the top 5 – and NYU Langone is on the honor roll of the top hospitals in the nation. Our digital journal, Physician Focus highlights our latest innovations and research highlights. ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery Cardiothoracic surgeon Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar on taking calculated risks to advance pediatric heart surgery. How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Program director Dr. Arielle Kurzweil highlights the program’s innovative curriculum and approach to training. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Dr. Elizabeth Comen spotlights the importance of listening to women’s concerns, in oncology and across all specialties. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery National survey reinforces the need for clear, evidence-based prescribing guidelines. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Advanced imaging and AI can rapidly and accurately detect prostate cancer in a biopsy. Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Recently approved by the FDA for liver tumors, histotripsy offers an array of advantages over thermal ablation techniques. Subscribe for Updates in Your Specialty Choose your interests to receive complex case studies, research highlights, physician perspectives, and other news in 15 adult specialties. Case Studies Case of the Month When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse A young MIBC survivor with prolapse wanted to stay physically and sexually active. Dr. Lauren Stewart knew sacrocolpopexy, despite its complexity, was the best option. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant Aware of risks, including significant failure to thrive, highly experienced surgeons performed a successful operation. Tiny Human, Giant Steps Aided by a multidisciplinary approach to rehabilitation, a severely premature infant makes the journey from the NICU to preschool. Research Advances How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder A recent fMRI study is the first to map neural networks affected by psilocybin in alcohol use disorder. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging An expert in aging and epidemiology discusses how integrated research may help older adults improve their health and live longer New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support Research ramps up for an AI-powered app that connects healthcare workers to mental health resources. To refer a patient, Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Chief Quality Officer Ilseung Cho, MD, discusses the deeper meaning and impact behind NYU Langone’s top accolades for care quality and safety. Before receiving care as a patient at NYU Langone, we ask that you review or sign several forms to make sure that you understand your rights and responsibilities. Prior to your hospital stay or doctor’s visit, forms and notices you need to review or sign are posted in your Download the NYU Langone Health App on the App Store or Google Play. You can read and sign forms in advance of your visit in order to expedite your check-in process. Review the patient notices and information for the following types of visits information for your first visit information for your hospital visit information for an observation visit information for visits to a doctor’s office Request and Share Your Medical Records You can request your medical records and share them with anyone you authorize, such as a healthcare professional, family member, or legal professional. Learn more about requesting your medical records You may be coming to NYU Langone for a doctor’s office appointment or for a hospital stay as an inpatient, outpatient, or for observation . The forms you need to fill out vary depending on the type of visit, which include the following: An inpatient stay at a hospital, which usually lasts more than two nights, often for surgery, medical treatments, or to stabilize a serious illness or injury. An outpatient stay, which may take place at a hospital or one of our outpatient care centers, where you may have tests, a variety of treatments, or minor surgery. The stay is typically a few hours. Observation, which is a specific kind of outpatient care. People under observation remain in a hospital bed while being monitored for a serious change in their medical condition, usually for less than 24 hours. During that time, a healthcare team decides if the patient needs to be admitted to the hospital. A visit to a doctor’s office to receive care from a physician or another medical professional. Forms for Your First Visit During your first visit to an NYU Langone facility, including a hospital, care location, or doctor’s office where the NYU Langone logo is displayed, you need to read and sign the Patient Privacy and HIPAA Rights forms . This information, along with our Health Information Exchange Fact Sheet and Consent Form, is also available in multiple languages . Learn more about HIPAA patient privacy information For your safety, we use the PatientSecure system. With biometric technology, the system scans a unique feature of your hand to simplify patient registration and provide the most accurate form of patient identification for future visits to NYU Langone. People coming for a hospital visit may need to review these notices and information: Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation Privacy Act (if you are admitted to Rusk Rehabilitation) Health Care Proxy Information Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form Hospital Disclosure Form Inpatient, Outpatient, and Observation Visit Information Release of Records for External Appeal Statement of Patient and Visitor Responsibilities Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State, which include the links below Deciding About Health Care Patients’ Bill of Rights Information Parents’ Bill of Rights Information We also provide hospital forms in several languages, including Chinese, English, Haitian–Creole, Italian, Korean, Russian, and Spanish. Notice for Your Observation Visit People coming for an observation visit need to review the following notice: Medicare Outpatient Observation Notice Forms for Visits to a Doctor’s Office If you are a patient who has not yet been to an NYU Langone doctor’s office, you can review the registration forms below in advance of your first office visit to help expedite the initial registration process. Please call your doctor’s office if you have questions about the forms. Summary of Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Financial Policies Additional Forms for Doctor’s Office Visits Review these additional forms that you may need during the course of your treatment at NYU Langone: Authorization for the Use and Disclosure PHI (release of information and instructions) Credit Card Storage and Authorization Form Deaf and Hard of Hearing Questionnaire Financial Assistance Application Medicaid Non-Par Waiver Medicare Opt-Out Waiver New York State Assignment of Benefit Non-Par Financial Acknowledgment Form NYU Langone Health MyChart Proxy Access Patient Consent Form for Interpreter Services Patient Information Change/Verification Form Workers Compensation/No Fault Insurance Registration Form 646-754-9607 Experts at NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center specialize in diagnosing and treating both simple and complex cases of gout. Our doctors also help people manage other forms of crystal-induced arthritis, such as calcium pyrophosphate arthritis, which is also known as pseudogout. Our mission is to help people with gout and related conditions live pain-free, healthy lives. Gout is a form of arthritis in which microscopic crystals of uric acid—a normal waste product in the blood—build up in the joints, causing inflammation. This leads to painful, intermittent attacks that can last for days, weeks, or even months. In some cases, the crystals combine into lumps called tophi, which can be large, chronically painful, and cause permanent damage to bone. People with gout commonly experience other health conditions—including , and cardiac disease—that may be directly related to gout. Gout is a chronic metabolic disease that is usually readily treatable but typically requires long-term management. Genetics are the primary risk factor, but diet and associated medical conditions may also increase risk. Treatment for Gout At NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center, we prescribe medications to treat acute attacks, prevent future attacks, and decrease the risk of long-term problems. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic and imaging tests to determine the severity of the condition and offer the most advanced treatments available, including medications to reduce pain and inflammation as well as guidance about lifestyle and dietary changes to ease symptoms. In addition, our experts conduct that provide access to investigational treatments for people with gout and related conditions. We also provide a variety of support services, including guidance about exercise, physical therapy, and pain management. Our rheumatologists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gout and other related conditions. Michael Toprover Clinical Director The NYU Langone Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity can help you manage rheumatologic conditions including , autoimmune disease during pregnancy, Behçet’s disease , gout, metabolic bone disease, mixed connective tissue disorders, osteoarthritis, , scleroderma and Raynaud’s disease, spondyloarthropathy and seronegative arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome In addition to providing exceptional care, we offer access to a vast array of additional services such as orthopedic and neurological consultative services, nutritional and psychological counseling, rehabilitation services, and the most advanced diagnostic testing available, including musculoskeletal ultrasound. Our experts provide specialized care through our Behçet’s Disease Center As leaders in clinical research, we provide our patients with access to new clinical trials and leading-edge therapies and treatments. We also provide techniques including arthrocentesis—a simple procedure using a needle to drain fluid from the joints—and injections of intra-articular steroid and hyaluronic acid to reduce inflammation and pain. , the Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity provides unmatched multispecialty care in one convenient location, eliminating the need to travel to many separate locations for your care. Our more than 400 specialists include experts in rheumatology, rehabilitation medicine, orthopedics, neurology, radiology, pain management, physical and occupational therapy, exercise physiology, pharmacy, and nursing. Together with our staff and support staff, they collaborate to develop a holistic treatment plan specific to your unique needs. Our rheumatologists are internationally known for providing diagnosis, treatment and exceptional care for patients with systemic autoimmune diseases. David B. Beck Clinical Geneticist H. Michael Belmont Lupus Doctor Rebecca B. Blank Jill P. Buyon Margaret A. Coyle Sarah E. Davis Brian D. Golden Gary H. Ho Catherine R. Howe Euna Lee Eileen J. Lydon Johannes Nowatzky Amit Saxena Bruce M. Solitar Sara E. Stream View All 26 Doctors & 26 We have multiple locations throughout New York City, Long Island, Westchester County, and Florida. Condition-Focused Cardiac Care Cardiac Amyloidosis Program Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Center Geriatric Cardiology Cardiac Testing & Imaging Women's Cardiology Leaders in Cardiac Surgery We have a three-star rating—the highest given—from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Access to Top Care We have more than 300 cardiologists who specialize in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of heart disease. At NYU Langone Heart, our doctors are dedicated to your cardiovascular health. Our specialists in provide safe, compassionate, high-quality care throughout our extensive network of hospitals and doctor’s offices. Whether you need a plan to prevent heart disease, a procedure to open a blocked artery or repair a valve, or even a new heart, our specialists work together seamlessly to provide you with the best-possible care. Mitral Valve Surgery We get patients home four days sooner after mitral valve procedures, according to the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Our cardiologists are the front line in the prevention and diagnosis of heart disease. They identify the root causes of your symptoms and create a personalized treatment plan to reverse , or other conditions that increase heart disease risk. They also play a vital role in managing conditions such as atrial fibrillation (AFib) . In addition, they provide specialized care to women people who have cancer or are cancer survivors and need to protect their heart health older adults who have cardiovascular disease If you require additional care, our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons can perform procedures using transcatheter, robotic, or open approaches. We are one of the highest-volume centers for transcatheter mitral valve repair , which were pioneered by doctors at NYU Langone. We have also earned a three-star rating, the highest, from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Our is one of the top programs in the country, according to data from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients. Our Care & Services Our cardiologists are experts in the prevention, diagnosis, and management of cardiovascular conditions. Learn More About Our Cardiology Care Our heart surgeons perform coronary artery bypass, mitral valve replacement and repair, and aortic valve replacement. may be hereditary, or it may be a sign of an underlying medical condition, such as nutritional deficiencies, thyroid imbalances, infections of the scalp, or an autoimmune disease. Hair loss can affect people of any age. Our dermatologists recognize that hair loss may affect how you feel about your appearance, and offer customized care and emotional support to help you feel like your best self. Among other treatments, we offer platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to promote regrowth. We also diagnose and treat other hair disorders, such as excessive hair growth, also called hirsutism. Hair Loss Services for Adults For adults who are experiencing hair loss, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy is a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to regrow hair. Growth factors from PRP are injected through the skin into the scalp, triggering and stimulating regrowth. Other treatments for hair loss may include oral, topical, or injectable medications, depending on the precise diagnosis made by your hair loss dermatologist. Diagnosing hair loss can be complex. Our specialists use advanced equipment to magnify the scalp on a screen for both you and your doctor to see. This allows your doctor to better provide a diagnosis and determine whether treatments are working. Other specialized equipment allows our doctors to establish your hair density and each hair’s width to determine whether the condition is improving. We are one of the very few centers in the United States with this advanced diagnostic equipment. We strive to find the best treatments for hair loss through research and education. NYU Langone is a research site for clinical trials, allowing us to offer our patients access to emerging treatments that promote hair growth. Hair Loss Services for Children Hair loss in children is usually accompanied by an underlying medical condition. Our pediatric dermatologists and hair loss specialists are experts in identifying the causes of hair loss in children. They can often treat the underlying condition or refer you to other specialists at for additional evaluation if needed. Our Hair Loss Team Our doctors specialize in providing hair loss services for people of all ages. Jerry Shapiro, MD Director of Hair and Scalp Disorders | Hair Loss, Dermatology Kristen Lo Sicco, MD Hair Loss, Dermatology Nikita R. Lakdawala, MD Dermatology, Pediatric Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology, Hair Loss Vikash S. Oza, MD Pediatric Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology The Geriatric Cardiology Program was established in order to address the needs of older adults with cardiovascular disease. Older adults who have heart disease, usually those over age 70, often have other medical illnesses as well, which makes treatment more challenging. For example, effective medications for heart disease may have an increased risk of side effects in older adults or may interact with other medications. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for geriatrics and cardiology and heart surgery. Our doctors, part of , incorporate principles of geriatric medicine into our routine cardiology practice, including a comprehensive geriatric assessment, evaluation of any drug interactions, and consideration of an individual’s physical capabilities. Our goals are to provide high-quality outpatient and inpatient cardiac care, and to pursue innovative clinical studies that can help us improve the heart health of older adults. We also collaborate with the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine to better understand the best way to treat cardiovascular disease in older adults. Find a cardiovascular disease expert who specializes in geriatric medicine. Our women’s health experts are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Women’s Sports Health Obstetrics & Gynecology Patient Stories Women deserve healthcare tailored to their unique needs. At NYU Langone, our experts in women’s health are dedicated to helping you stay well and feel your best at every stage of life. We work as a team to deliver a healthcare experience that is personalized to you and your goals. We provide comprehensive care aimed at helping you achieve and maintain peak wellness. Our team includes primary care providers and obstetrician–gynecologists who work in partnership with specialists in cardiology, , endocrinology, gastroenterology, to meet all your healthcare needs. Our gynecologic care is available to women of all ages, starting in adolescence through menopause and beyond. We provide the most advanced treatments for hormonal disorders and conditions specific to women, including , and vulvar conditions. We are also leaders in obstetric care . We strive to make every safe, supported, and special. Nearly 15,000 babies are born at NYU Langone each year, and we provide compassionate care for our pregnant patients, including those experiencing high-risk pregnancies. We also provide the most advanced treatments for people experiencing infertility , and have helped tens of thousands of people start and grow their families. Our Centers and Programs We offer the latest fibroid tumor treatments with the goal of reducing symptoms and preventing recurrence. We help reduce symptoms and improve overall health and wellbeing during the menopause transition. Learn More About the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause We help our patients manage the symptoms of endometriosis. We offer primary care and access to specialists, all focused on the specific medical needs of women. Learn More About the Center for Women’s Health Our specialists care for women experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn More About Maternal-Fetal Medicine Services Whether you want to start a family now or preserve your fertility for the future, our experts can help. Learn More About NYU Langone Fertility Center Our doctors provide routine gynecologic screenings and pregnancy care. Learn More About Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street 159 East 53rd Street, New York, NY, 10022 646-987-3853 Breast Cancer Specialist Joins Perlmutter Cancer Center Clinical Trial Leads to Lifesaving Breast Cancer Treatment Combining Breast Cancer Treatment with Aesthetics A Message for Black Women: Know Your Risk of Breast Cancer NYU Langone Orthopedics Locations World-class care from is within reach, with locations throughout New York City, on Long Island, and in Westchester County, New Jersey, and Florida. New York City Locations Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing NYU Orthopedic Associates—Midtown East NYU Langone Orthopedic Behavioral Health Associates Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Orthopedic Center Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates—Flushing Long Island Locations Concussion Center at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care East Meadow NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Bethpage NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success—1999 Marcus Avenue NYU Langone Ambulatory Surgery Center—Garden City NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates—North Babylon NYU Langone Medical Associates—East Patchogue NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115 NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Hauppauge Westchester County Locations NYU Langone Medical Associates—Harrison NYU Langone Medical Associates—Tarrytown New Jersey Locations Florida Locations Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are experts in interventional endocrinology—using minimally invasive treatments to manage a variety of thyroid conditions. We create a personalized treatment plan to ensure that you have the best possible outcome. While medications are useful for many thyroid conditions, we also offer advanced interventional thyroid procedures to manage thyroid nodules and cancers . These nonsurgical approaches, which leave little or no scarring, include radiofrequency ablation, nanosecond pulsed field ablation (nsPFA), thyroid artery embolization, and alcohol ablation. We also use the latest approaches to perform remote access surgeries, which are scar-reducing or scarless procedures Leaders in Interventional Endocrinology Treatment Our team of doctors is at the forefront of developing and using interventional endocrinology treatments. These nonsurgical procedures can treat thyroid conditions that were previously only managed with surgery or radioactive iodine ablation, which damage healthy thyroid tissue and increase the risk of . Patients who develop hypothyroidism require a daily dose of thyroid hormone . We use safe and effective interventional procedures because they help preserve healthy thyroid tissue and protect and restore thyroid function. Pioneers in Radiofrequency Ablation for Thyroid Nodules Our doctors were the first in New York City to offer thyroid radiofrequency ablation, or RFA , a technology that delivers heat to destroy large, noncancerous thyroid nodules that press on surrounding structures or cause undesirable bulging in the neck. We also use RFA to destroy nodules that cause hyperthyroidism Our team of experts may recommend RFA to treat some thyroid cancers or thyroid cancer that has come back in nearby lymph nodes. Trailblazers in Nanosecond Pulsed Field Ablation We are among the first doctors in New York area to offer nanosecond pulsed field ablation for the treatment of toxic thyroid nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. This highly precise treatment delivers short electrical pulses that break down unwanted thyroid tissue and preserves surrounding healthy structures. Experts in Thyroid Artery Embolization Thyroid artery embolization interrupts blood flow and shrinks an extremely enlarged thyroid, also known as a goiter. A goiter can sometimes grow below the collarbone, protrude into the chest, or cause the neck to swell. We were among the first and are still one of only a handful of medical centers in the United States to offer this procedure. Specialists in Ethanol Ablation We may offer ethanol (alcohol) ablation to treat fluid-filled thyroid nodules, also known as cysts. This procedure may also be used to destroy lymph nodes containing cancer cells that have spread from the thyroid. Scar-Reducing or Scarless Thyroid Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are leaders in advanced, remote access surgery to manage benign or cancerous thyroid nodules or to remove the thyroid gland to manage various thyroid conditions, without a visible scar on the front of the neck. With remote access endocrine surgery, our experts avoid making incisions on the front of the neck, and instead make tiny incisions under the chin, inside and behind the lower lip, or behind the ear to reduce or eliminate scarring. During surgery, we also use recurrent laryngeal nerve monitoring to minimize the risk of damage to the nerve that helps the voice box to function. We may also use parathyroid autofluorescence, a technology that minimizes the risk of damaging the parathyroid glands, which are located near the thyroid. Specialists in Retroauricular Thyroid Surgery Our doctors perform robotic-assisted retroauricular thyroid surgery to remove part or all of the thyroid. We make an incision behind the ear to minimize visible scarring and use a surgical robot to help perform the procedure. The robotic-assisted approach results in excellent visualization and gives us the ability to perform the surgery with a hidden incision. Innovators in Scarless Thyroid Surgery As an early leader in performing the transoral endoscopic technique, in which the thyroid is accessed through incisions made in the mouth, our surgeons were the first to develop a new type of “scarless” procedure known as the transoral and submental technique (TOaST) to remove the thyroid. For this procedure, we make a tiny incision hidden in the natural fold under the chin and behind the lower lip area in the mouth to remove thyroid tissue, a method that minimizes visible scarring. The scar in the mouth is not visible, and the incision on the chin is nearly invisible. Expert Diagnosis of Thyroid Conditions NYU Langone Thyroid Program doctors specialize in diagnosing a full array of thyroid conditions . Diagnosing thyroid disease may sometimes be delayed because symptoms can be vague. They range from weight gain to weight loss and from fatigue to sleeplessness. Others still—especially people with thyroid nodules or cancers —have no symptoms at all. Despite these challenges, our specialists provide an accurate and timely diagnosis of thyroid conditions so that your treatment can start as soon as possible. Thyroid Imaging Neck ultrasound, or the use of sound waves to create images of the neck, is the most useful tool for evaluating and diagnosing thyroid nodules and most thyroid cancers . Our doctors are experts in performing and reading this crucial type of scan. Thyroid cancer may require sophisticated tests such as lymph node mapping to help us determine which lymph nodes, if any, cancer cells may have spread to. Our team also may also use radionuclide scans, such as a PET scan or radioactive iodine scan, to diagnose thyroid disease and cancer. These tests use a small amount of radioactive material to detect abnormal activity in the thyroid gland or to determine whether the cancer has spread to other areas of the body. These, along with other advanced nuclear imaging tests, are used to determine the best treatment course for you. Advanced Molecular Testing If imaging does not clearly show that a nodule is benign, patients may benefit from a fine-needle aspiration , in which thyroid cells are removed with a tiny needle attached to a syringe. Our pathologists examine the cells under a microscope to determine whether any are cancerous. Advanced molecular tests that examine genetic material in thyroid nodules cells may be required to determine whether the nodule is more likely to be cancerous or benign. Based on these results, our experts may recommend watchful waiting, a minimally invasive procedure, or thyroid surgery. In rare cases of advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer, we collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , where you can access and advanced targeted therapies. Thyroid Conditions We Treat Specialists at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program treat all types of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancers Thyroid Nodules We treat a full range of benign (noncancerous) thyroid nodules, including: benign nodules that press on surrounding structures, causing symptoms, or are cosmetically unappealing fluid-filled nodules, also known as cysts goiter of all types, including toxic nodular goiter, which may cause hyperthyroidism, and substernal thyroid goiter, which presses into the chest thyroglossal masses and other ectopic thyroid tissue toxic autonomous nodule Thyroid Cancers These are some of the many kinds of thyroid cancers we manage: papillary carcinoma unusual papillary thyroid cancers, including variants such as tall cell, insular, hobnail follicular carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma oncocytic (Hürthle cell) cancer cribiform morular thyroid cancer lymphoma that appears in the thyroid poorly differentiated and anaplastic carcinoma, two of the most aggressive forms of thyroid cancer Types of Hyperthyroidism We create treatment plans for all types of hyperthyroidism, including the following: Graves’ disease thyroiditis, which is transient hyperthyroidism due to sudden inflammation or disruption of the thyroid amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism pregnancy-related hyperthyroidism toxic autonomous thyroid nodules thyroid-stimulating hormone secreting pituitary tumors Types of Hypothyroidism Our doctors see patients who have the following types of hypothyroidism: Hashimoto’s thyroiditis postsurgical hypothyroidism amiodarone-induced central or pituitary-related checkpoint inhibitor therapy induced pregnancy-related hypothyroidism Types of Thyroiditis We manage several types of thyroiditis, which is inflammation of the thyroid gland: subacute (painful) lymphocytic (silent or painless) postpartum amiodarone-associated Whatever thyroid condition you may have, our doctors can create the right treatment plan for you. Support the Future of Health We can do incredible things with you on our team. Your gift empowers NYU Langone Health to overcome challenges and impact lives worldwide. 11.3M outpatient visits a year 100 full-tuition MD scholarships a year 162 endowed professorships 247% increase in NIH research funding since 2017 Make a Difference Raise Funds With Us and Make An Impact Rally your community. Donate your birthday, celebrate a special occasion or honor someone you love. Gather Your Friends For An Athletic Fundraiser Push the limits of what's possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Celebrate Our Frontline Heroes Nurses are the heart of NYU Langone Health. Support them this Nurses Day and everyday. Mar 9, 2022 Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Emily Scher Jan 9, 2025 9:21 pm EST What Our Supporters Say Push the limits of what’s possible. Join Team NYU Langone in the water, on the course, or around the track. Mar 9, 2022Updated: Mar 9, 2022 Jan 2, 20253:00 pmEST Modal Box modal- Click here to edit the “modal-box” settings. This text is only for editing and will not appear after you publish the changes.							Preview			modal- Homepage Read Inspiring Stories “I gave a donation to NYU Langone in honor of my son Dimitrios. He is in remission now…. Susan M. Family Member of Patient “15 years ago my twins were born 2 months early in the middle of the night. We didn’t… Bryan S. “My husband is a cancer survivor who was a patient of Dr. Chachoua’s. It has been 17 years… Suzanne R. 212-263-7311 Our experts diagnose and create tailored treatment plans for , a group of symptoms that result from the narrowing of the space between the first rib and the collarbone. This narrowing compresses nearby arteries, veins, and nerves, causing pain, swelling, numbness, skin discoloration, and blood clots in the neck, shoulder, arm, or hand. Thoracic outlet syndrome typically occurs from overuse of the arm from repetitive overhead movements at work or from certain sports, such as swimming or baseball. Sometimes a malformed first rib or a cervical rib—an extra rib located above the others—may compress surrounding blood vessels and nerves, contributing to symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program, patients receive personalized, advanced care from our team, which includes vascular surgeons, , neuromuscular medicine specialists, , and pain management specialists. Treatment plans, which are tailored to the type of thoracic outlet syndrome a person has, may include , or minimally invasive treatment. Innovative, Minimally Invasive Surgical Approaches NYU Langone surgeons are among the most experienced at providing minimally invasive surgical options if other treatment methods do not provide relief. Options include robotic-assisted first rib resection , which involves removing the top rib to relieve compression of area blood vessels and nerves, and angioplasty or venoplasty , which uses a catheter-based approach to open compressed vessels. Our doctors are experts at managing thoracic outlet syndrome. Michael Zervos Our doctors help diagnose and manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Thoracic surgeons are an integral part of the care team for thoracic outlet syndrome. Physical and occupational therapy may be part of your treatment plan. NYU Langone Neurology Associates Neuromuscular specialists at NYU Langone Neurology Associates help manage thoracic outlet syndrome. Our specialists manage discomfort caused by thoracic outlet syndrome. We have doctors in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and on Long Island. To make an appointment, please contact one of our thoracic surgeons. Excellence in Lung Cancer Surgery We have a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection, and our surgical volume and length of hospital stay are better than the national average. Our doctors have more than 30 years of experience and have performed more than 5,000 thoracic surgery procedures. ’s “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone is tied for No. 1 in the nation for pulmonology and lung surgery. NYU Langone’s thoracic surgeons specialize in using robotic-assisted surgical techniques to manage even the most complex cancers and other conditions that involve the lungs, esophagus, trachea, diaphragm, and mediastinum, as well as the surrounding chest area. Robotic-assisted surgery is a minimally invasive technique that allows for smaller incisions that result in faster recovery time, shorter hospital stay, and less postoperative pain. We were among the first to use robotic-assisted surgery to treat cancers and diseases of the chest, and our surgeons are among the most experienced in the world in using these methods. Thoracic surgeons from around the world regularly come to NYU Langone to learn how to master these techniques. Thoracic surgeries are usually complex, so our surgeons collaborate with pulmonologists and specialists in medical oncology, radiation oncology, and radiology from NYU Langone’s . Working together, your care team develops a treatment strategy targeted to your needs. Innovators in Thoracic Care to find newer, better treatments for lung cancer and mesothelioma. We are currently exploring new treatments that combine surgery with chemotherapy and immunotherapy, and are part of a clinical trial to determine the effectiveness of radiation mesh that is surgically placed on the lungs to shrink cancerous growths. Advances in Thoracic Surgery Our surgeons are researching new ways to improve care for people with lung cancer, mesothelioma, and other thoracic conditions. We are also exploring advanced surgical technology, including single-port robotic-assisted surgery, which requires only one incision, and navigational bronchoscopy, which combines imaging and robotic-assisted surgery to precisely remove smaller nodules of affected tissue instead of larger sections of lung. NYU Langone has received a three-star rating from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for lung cancer lobectomy and resection. This achievement, the highest rating possible, puts NYU Langone among the very best hospitals for general thoracic lung cancer surgery. In addition, our surgical team is one of the most experienced in the country, performing more surgeries than the national average. Our patients also go home sooner than average, with 90 percent of people who had lobectomy and 95 percent of people who had segmentectomy to remove a portion of the lung discharged within 24 hours. Our thoracic surgeons are leaders in the surgical treatment of , lung metastases from other sites in the body, , chest wall tumors, and , as well as all conditions that affect the chest area. These include , and tracheal stenosis. Our doctors perform the following thoracic surgery procedures, in most cases using robotic-assisted techniques: resection—including lobectomy, segmentectomy, and airway and pulmonary artery sleeve resection, to remove part of the lung—and pneumonectomy, to remove an entire lung surgery to remove tumors that spread to the chest wall, including Pancoast tumors mediastinal tumor surgery esophageal cancer surgery and surgery for benign esophageal disease airway surgery, including treatment for tracheobronchomalacia, which causes the windpipe to soften and collapse, and surgery to remove tracheal tumors , through our lung volume reduction surgery to treat emphysema, , and other conditions that affect breathing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension We also use video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS), a minimally invasive surgical technique, to treat lung cancer or drain fluid around the heart and lungs. Related Programs & Centers We specialize in minimally invasive surgical approaches, including robotic-assisted first rib resection. Learn More About the Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Our experts perform highly specialized surgery for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Learn More About the CTEPH Program Robotic thoracic surgery is available for airway, breathing, and lung conditions. Learn More About the Robotic Surgery Center Our doctors develop individualized treatment plans for people with lung cancer and mesothelioma. Learn More About the Lung Cancer Center We offer lung transplants for people age 12 and older who have advanced lung diseases. Every person’s skin has a unique tone, texture, and color that requires tailored treatment. Many skin conditions may appear differently, and can be more or less severe, depending on a person’s background. Diagnosing and treating these conditions in different skin types requires a well-trained eye. Our team of exceptional board-certified dermatologists provides comprehensive treatments for any and all skin conditions in people of color. Our dermatologists are trained to diagnose and treat a variety of conditions affecting skin of color. We are one of the few dermatology divisions in the United States dedicated to advancing and promoting care for skin of color. The conditions we treat and the surgical and cosmetic procedures we utilize for care are as diverse as our patients. Skin of Color Conditions We Treat Our dermatologists specialize in treating a variety of conditions affecting skin of color, including the following: cosmetic concerns, including skin aging and wrinkles keloids and hypertrophic scars dermatosis papulosa nigra, which are small, dark bumps that commonly appear on the face and neck , including central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia and traction alopecia hidradenitis suppurativa, a condition in which painful boils and scars form in skin folds skin discoloration, such as melasma hyperpigmentation and hypopigmentation irritation of the skin and hair follicles, including conditions such as pseudofolliculitis barbae and acne keloidalis nuchae and other Our doctors are experts in advanced treatments including laser procedures, minimally invasive cosmetic procedures, surgery, phototherapy, liquid nitrogen treatments, and steroid injections. Our Skin of Color Team We specialize in providing dermatologic services for skin of color. Prince Adotama, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services, Skin Autoimmune Disorders Lisa O. Akintilo, MD Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Avrom S. Caplan, MD Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Daniel Gutierrez, MD Dermatology, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Nayoung Lee, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology, Skin of Color Services Whether you’re playing pickleball, picking up a toddler, or hoisting a suitcase into the overhead bin, life can be tough on your joints and muscles. If you experience pain or stiffness when you move, you may need to see an orthopedic doctor. Specialists at offer nonsurgical treatments, including medications and injections, to relieve acute and chronic conditions of the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. When surgery is needed, our renowned team of specialized orthopedic surgeons provide excellent outcomes in joint replacements and surgical treatment for fractures, spinal disorders, and sports injuries. With the right care plan, our specialists will help you manage your orthopedic condition or injury and get you back to the activities you enjoy. Before seeing us, you may need to schedule an appointment with a primary care doctor or other provider for a referral to the right type of specialist for your symptoms. You can also explore our team of specialists to schedule an appointment directly . Some subspecialists, such as our spine surgeons, require a referral and imaging tests before an office visit. When to Consider Seeing an Orthopedic Doctor You may want to see an orthopedic doctor if you have: muscle, joint, or bone pain in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, shoulders, or back instability when walking or standing loss of range of motion in your hips, knees, ankles, wrists, or shoulders a loud pop or popping sensation in your knees or shoulders severe pain that keeps you from participating in an activity, even just walking swelling of your joints back pain plus other symptoms, such as loss of bladder or bowel control, fever, chills, or night sweats a broken bone from traumatic injury sports-related injuries Which Type of Orthopedic Specialist Will You See? The type of orthopedic specialist you see at NYU Langone depends on your symptoms and what other providers, if any, you have already seen for treatment. Back Pain Relief , your primary care provider may refer you to initially for physical or occupational therapy at NYU Langone’s . If this approach does not provide adequate relief or if your symptoms are more complex, your doctor may order imaging exams and refer you to a with specific training in treating the conditions that cause back pain, including If you have shoulder or elbow stiffness or pain, your primary care provider may refer you to one of our specialists in . Advanced training allows our doctors to manage conditions such shoulder sprains and strains . Medications, injections, physical or occupational therapy, or surgery may be part of your treatment plan. Help for Hips and Knees Hip pain may be a symptom of , while knee instability or pain may be a sign of an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tear . When medical treatment or physical or occupational therapy are no longer effective, our hip and knee reconstruction specialists can determine whether joint replacement surgery is necessary, and offer minimally invasive and other advanced procedures as part of your plan. Rheumatoid Arthritis Relief If you have joint pain in many joints in your body, your primary care doctor may refer you to a who specializes in , a condition that causes the immune system to mistakenly attacks healthy joints. If you need further treatment, your rheumatologist may refer you to an orthopedic surgeon for joint replacement surgery. Specialty Care for Everyday Athletes If musculoskeletal pain is keeping you from participating in your favorite sport or activity, your doctor may refer you to a sports medicine doctor . These orthopedic specialists treat everyday athletes with all types of sports-related injuries, such as sprains, strains, tears, and breaks—with or without surgery. At NYU Langone, sports medicine doctors work as a team with highly trained physical therapists, nutritionists, and other support specialists, who take the time to understand how your pain impacts your life and goals, and how they can help you achieve them. Pediatric Dermatology Services At NYU Langone, our pediatric dermatologists provide expert and compassionate care for children of all ages. Our pediatric dermatology team treats children in our outpatient offices and through , which allows for seamless coordination among parents, patients, and physicians. Our pediatric dermatologists treat all skin conditions for children and adolescents, including rare or complex conditions. As part of one of the oldest pediatric dermatology practices in the country, our doctors have extensive experience evaluating and treating all skin conditions, as well as hair and nail disorders. Our doctors routinely treat common disorders such as , as well as uncommon birthmarks and rare genetic or inflammatory skin disorders. Our experience allows us to bring advances in the field to the bedside to provide the most up-to-date approach to caring for your child. NYU Langone’s pediatric dermatologists are deeply committed to creating a nurturing and educational environment for children and their families. We strive to understand your child’s skin condition within the context of their overall health, happiness, and wellbeing. We also pride ourselves in taking the time to educate families about their child’s skin condition. Our doctors are recognized leaders in their fields, routinely lecturing at local, national, and international dermatologic meetings. They are also active members in the American Academy of Dermatology and the Society for Pediatric Dermatology. Our Pediatric Dermatology Specialties Our pediatric dermatologists are experts at diagnosing and treating skin diseases that affect children and adolescents, including the following: , including moles, vascular anomalies such as port-wine stains, and hemangiomas atopic dermatitis and eczema and hair diseases, such as alopecia areata genetic skin disorders pigmentation disorders, such as skin infections, including warts, molluscum, and fungal infections Our Pediatric Dermatology Team Our pediatric dermatologists are board-certified in both dermatology and pediatric dermatology, and have specialized training that allows them to make the most sophisticated decisions for treatment options. 212-263-5250 212-263-1003 Dermatology Services Our dermatologists provide the highest quality of care and use the latest advanced techniques to diagnose and treat skin conditions Learn More About Dermatology Services The Skin and Cancer Unit of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology , founded in 1872 as the New York Skin and Cancer Hospital, is an outpatient dermatology teaching center located at NYU Langone’s Ambulatory Care Center East 38th Street Patients at the Skin and Cancer Unit, with its 150-year history of combining outstanding patient care with world-class medical education, are seen by both a physician undertaking advanced dermatology training, called a resident, along with an NYU Langone physician, known as an attending physician. The resident and an attending physician collaborate to provide diagnostic and treatment services for virtually all skin diseases in adults, adolescents, and children. These range from common conditions such as warts, acne, and eczema, to more complex medical conditions such as connective tissue disorders, pigmented lesions, skin allergies, and skin cancers. Our services include clinics dedicated to the following conditions: bullous (blistering) diseases like pemphigus and bullous pemphigoid complex medical dermatology problems connective tissue diseases and skin lupus genetic and congenital skin disorders hair and scalp problems leg ulcers nail problems pediatric and adolescent dermatology pigmented lesions skin sarcoidosis For people who need further treatment for skin cancer, we work closely with our experts at . We also collaborate with the Dermatology Clinical Studies Unit, which performs clinical trials and studies of drugs and medical devices aimed at treating disorders of the skin, hair, and nails. Orthopedic Conditions We Treat , our doctors have the experience and expertise to manage a wide range of conditions affecting the bones, muscles, joints, tendons, and ligaments. Blount Disease in Children Elbow Strains and Sprains Legg-Calvé-Perthes Disease in Children Spina Bifida in Children Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. When you have a brain or spine condition, you want the best care from the top specialists. Our neurologists and neurosurgeons are leaders in their field, and specialize in treating the most complex brain, spinal cord, and nervous system disorders in both adults and children. Our renowned team of experts brings people from around the country to NYU Langone, ranked as the No. 1 hospital for neurology and U.S. News and World Report From common neurologic conditions, such as to the most complex, such as , our team uses the latest technologies to make a diagnosis and create a customized treatment plan that is tailored to each individual. We offer advanced medical and surgical treatment options, and our doctors are guided by a simple philosophy: our patients always come first. We deliver the highest survival rates in the country for neurosurgery, with our experts using virtual reality to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and artificial intelligence to inform real-time decisions during surgery. Our unparalleled commitment to the best outcomes drives our neurologists and neurosurgeons to advance the standard of care for brain, spine, and nervous system conditions. Our experts use Gamma Knife radiosurgery for noninvasive brain surgery. Our surgeons perform ultra-minimally invasive procedures to treat several conditions of the neck and lower back. We provide the treatment and support you need when dealing with memory. NYU Langone Health’s Research at ASCO 2024 Clinical Trial Tests Noninvasive Glioblastoma Treatment Healthcare Leadership Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Ilseung Cho, MD , a gastroenterologist, has served as Assistant Chief Quality Officer and now Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health during a remarkable era for the hospital system. From its moment of near-collapse in the mid-2000s, NYU Langone’s Manhattan campus has transformed into a national beacon of care quality and innovation while the hospital system has grown substantial new footprints in Brooklyn and Long Island through major hospital mergers. Today, the fully integrated NYU Langone Health hospital system holds a nearly incredible set of accolades— ranked #3 in the country and #1 in New York U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals while receiving an “A” top-safety rating from Leapfrog ; a five-star CMS rating for quality, safety and patient experience; and Vizient’s #1 Quality ranking. Still, Dr. Cho explains that NYU Langone’s “secret sauce” for growing while advancing highest-quality care lies beyond all of the metrics in a unique ethos focused on providing only the best to each patient, their loved ones and communities. Here, Dr. Cho discusses his vision as Chief Quality Officer and what initiatives are on the horizon for the hospital system. Embracing Care Quality as a Mission Physician Focus: What motivated you to take on the work of a Chief Quality Officer? Dr. Cho: This work is very personal for me, just as it is for our patients and their families. I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation. It felt like something being said to make the surgeon feel better, rather than my family member. Metrics and rates are important for how the hospital runs, but to someone who suffered a complication of care, their personal rate is 100 percent. What I took away from that experience is that each of the quantitative measures we consider represents a real outcome for those who entrust us with their care. That is why the journey to constantly improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. We should continually strive to reduce mortalities, reduce preventable harm, and improve the experiences that our patients have when they interact with our health system. “I started having an interest in quality and safety after a family member of mine suffered a surgical site infection. When we were told that these infections almost never happen, that was of little consolation.” How do you implement that personalized, patient-centered focus on quality in a complex and growing health system that runs, by necessity, on the capture of metrics and data? NYU Langone’s leadership has made an exceptional commitment to developing a culture where all clinicians and staff are encouraged to be open about communicating their challenges and successes. In my role, the most valuable information I receive often comes from the clinical leaders, both providers and nurses, who are frequently at the bedside. In a way, my job is to amalgamate all of the qualitative insights that come from our bedside nurses, NPs, PAs, residents, and others. For example, a recent conversation I had with one of our transport staff in an elevator uncovered opportunities to improve their workflow and efficiency. It was one of the most important discussions I had that week. That is why I say that even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care. “Even our most sophisticated dashboard or metric is not NYU Langone’s secret sauce. Our secret sauce is how we engage every clinician and staff member who feels dedicated to the service of helping patients and improving care.” Righting a Flagship Hospital, Building a Quality-Driven Health System Looking back, how would you distill the strategy that has allowed NYU Langone to transform the fate of our main Manhattan hospital, which appeared to be very dire around 2007, while adding two other major hospitals with their own challenges to our system—and now achieving the same top quality and outcomes measures across the board? In my opinion, the change we’ve seen over the past 15 years has been driven by two primary components: culture and data. Culture defines what is important or not to an organization like ours. And we have planted our flag around providing the highest quality of care. Our culture reflects that. Our work to become a high-reliability organization reflects that. Every member of this organization from the senior leadership down understands that we are aiming to provide the highest quality of care because it is ingrained in our culture. Along with that, we have been very innovative about the use of data, metrics, and goal-setting. We’ve created a remarkable system to measure the quality of care, to identify whether we are adhering to our processes, and to share that data transparently with our teams in the form of dashboards. This is vertically integrated from our hospital leadership to our staff as well as horizontally across our entire healthcare system. Fundamentally, we expect that the quality of care delivered at each of our sites is the same. We have set the expectation that all our patients receive the same high quality of care, regardless of whether they come to us in Manhattan, Brooklyn, or Mineola (Long Island). This expectation of high-quality care holds as we engage in hospital mergers— a recent JAMA article highlighted our success in bucking the national trend of diminished care quality that often accompanies health system growth. “We have set the expectation that all of our patients receive the same high quality of care.” rankings reflect the aggregate performance of all our hospitals. This is, frankly, different from the way many other health systems operate, where they report only on their “flagship” hospital but not the other hospitals in the system. Advancing the Vision of a Healthier NYC What are your top priorities ahead to continue advancing quality and outcomes? Equity and healthcare disparities is the next challenge that we must and will overcome. We should be transparent about the fact that healthcare in this country has provided disparate and inequitable care for a long time. We have a moral obligation to address this and to eliminate biases wherever we uncover them, whether they relate to race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity. This is a challenge but I’m confident that, given the commitment of our leadership and staff, we can and will do better. Lastly, would you agree that in many ways the unique experiences of New Yorkers have shaped how NYU Langone embraces the model of a high-risk organization and the ability to adapt quickly and effectively to challenges? What health system has weathered events like the blackout of 2002, Hurricane Sandy in 2012, and the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020 with such strength and resilience? Not a day goes by that I’m not in wonder and grateful for the people we have here at NYU Langone. There is no hospital system better suited to take care of New York City. Our hospitals reflect what is incredible about New York, and our teams bring incredible energy and innovation drawn from the rich diversity of our communities. Our work ethic mirrors the grit that we see in our families and friends. Thank you for your time, Dr. Cho. Share This Copied to clipboard! Featured Experts Ilseung Cho, MD, is an associate professor of gastroenterology and Chief Quality Officer for NYU Langone Health. His research interests focus on the gut microbiome (the community of bacteria that live in the gastrointestinal tract) and how it affects health and disease. Specifically, he focuses on the effect of the colonic microbiome on metabolism as well as in the development of colorectal cancer through epigenetic mechanisms. Subscribe to Physician Focus Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at NYU Langone Health. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging Josef Coresh, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. An estimated one in five Americans will be older than 65 by 2030, a major benchmark in an accelerating demographic trend that is fueling a surge of research on how to promote better aging. Getting older is inevitable, but biomedical research is suggesting that many of its consequences can be prevented or delayed. NYU Langone Health’s Optimal Aging Institute , which launched in 2023 under the leadership of Josef Coresh, MD, PhD , a professor in the Departments of , adds a powerful new force to the growing research focus. The institute aims to help advance the science of aging, identify the mechanisms that underlie optimal health and can become dysregulated with age, and translate its insights into improving health and prolonging lives. Here, Dr. Coresh discusses the institute’s focus and future. The Lifelong Process of Optimal Aging Dr. Coresh, how would you define optimal aging, and why is it important? Dr. Coresh: Optimal aging is trying to retain more function and then decline more slowly and live longer, with better health and quality of life. It pertains to quality of life, with an emphasis on prevention and health lifelong, rather than thinking of aging as just what we do at the end. “One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan.” One example is that one of the protective factors for dementia is more education from childhood. One of our central tenets is looking for the origins of optimal aging all the way from the beginning and collaborating across the lifespan. What do you see as the institute’s principal goals? The goals for the institute are to connect—to become a hub that connects excellence—and then to incubate ideas and innovation to create what I might call actionable research results. We have a very talented team that is highly collaborative across disciplines. I think to have global impact, you need to be globally connected as well. So by no means are we going it alone: we’re coordinating our activities with other universities and leaders and really working as part of an international effort. Our goal is to start with observations in people and then get the right kind of resources so that our answers are definitive enough that they can advance health and can become translated into clinics, populations, and policies. Addressing the Growing Burden of Dementia The institute is focusing on conditions like dementia, vascular disease, and hearing loss. Why are these so important? We try to focus on the most compelling public health and aging problems of our time, and in doing that, dementia rises to the top. Interestingly, dementia is very connected to vascular disease, where heart disease and stroke are leading causes of death. In between them is blood pressure control and vascular health. We’ve known for a long time that people who have a big stroke have a high risk of dementia, but people with high blood pressure can still have ischemic damage throughout the brain that may contribute to cognitive decline and dementia. Also, in collaboration with colleagues in otolaryngology, we’re planning to study hearing loss as a risk factor for dementia and assess how improving hearing may improve all of healthcare for older adults. Hearing loss can contribute to social isolation and other risk factors for dementia, and we’ve already demonstrated how a hearing intervention can reduce cognitive decline in older adults with hearing loss. NYU Langone is a lead institution for the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. How does ARIC further the institute’s aims? The ARIC cohort has been funded by the NIH since it started in 1987. More than 35 years later, the study participants are all over the age of 80. We’re currently looking at risk factors for dementia and integrating proteomics, genetics, blood pressure and vascular risk factors, hearing loss data, and other behavioral risk factors. We’ve had some major publications, including one showing the connection of high blood pressure in midlife to dementia later in life . We’re working on the lifetime risk of dementia and have shown an interconnection between vascular and Alzheimer’s dementia. In collaboration with Dr. Morgan Grams Division of Precision Medicine , we are hosting all the cohort data since inception. We are gathering raw imaging data for artificial intelligence (AI) analysis and building a hub with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) to promote global collaboration. The Benefits of Controlling Hypertension Can you talk more about the role of blood pressure control in dementia prevention? Blood pressure control clearly reduces the risk of stroke and heart attacks. For dementia, the challenge has been that we think it might take decades to have the full effect. Often, the populations in trials haven’t been old enough to see that effect. But recent trials are showing that even starting in your 60s and even treating blood pressure for as short as four years may result in a significant reduction in dementia risk. “Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection.” That adds another compelling reason to treat what is the leading risk factor for mortality globally. Blood pressure needs to be controlled to reduce mortality rates, and now we’re adding more information about its dementia connection. Integrating Demographics, Wearables, and More What’s next for the institute? We’re going to recruit a demographer next because I think understanding demographic trends is important. We’re going to do a lot more with hearing loss, because I think that’s very addressable. Next, we’re going to work with precision medicine and AI to get more information from our clinical tools. We’re also looking heavily at wearables. Particularly in older age, there may be a lot of information that sensors can get us that people may or may not be aware of or able to self-report, like sleep, which has become a very important topic. The key is to address all of these in ways that can create synergies with diverse scientists and make a difference. Josef Coresh, MD, PhD, is the founding director of the Optimal Aging Institute and a professor of population health and medicine. He is an international expert in aging and vascular disease epidemiology of the brain, heart, and kidney. Latest in Geriatrics Tracking Down Risk Factors for Dementia The Optimal Aging Institute expands research on vascular risk factors for age-related decline with a $31 million NIH award. State Dementia Plans: Understanding Their Past & Improving Their Future Nationally recognized Alzheimer’s disease expert Dr. Joshua Chodosh discusses the public health response to ADRDs. Bridging the Care Gap: A Role for Geriatric Outpatient Clinics How integrated consultative care clinics can help expand access to specialized geriatric services. Tiny Human, Giant Steps The patient was born at 22 weeks and 5 days of gestation, weighing barely a pound and hovering at the cusp of viability. Prior to arriving at NYU Langone Health, he spent six weeks in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at another hospital, where he battled several complications of extreme prematurity—including chronic lung disease, bilateral retinopathy, and a grade 3 intraventricular hemorrhage. Like many babies who survive such difficult beginnings, he was left with profound developmental delays. After his release from the NICU, in the summer of 2020, he was referred to a local hospital for feeding therapy. His disabilities also entitled him to state-funded early intervention services, but the COVID-19 pandemic had brought the system to a standstill. “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress.” Megan Conklin, PT, DPT “In cases where brain injury is a factor, it’s crucial to start treatment as soon as possible. This enables care teams to take advantage of neuroplasticity to maximize recovery and developmental progress,” says Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, associate director of pediatric therapy services at NYU Langone. “This baby was clearly not getting the help he needed.” Shortly before the child’s first birthday, the patient was referred to . There, a multidisciplinary team of specialists launched a program targeting his impairments in strength, posture, range of motion, balance, endurance, communication, feeding, swallowing, and cognitive skills. It would continue for the next two years. A Long, Hard Climb When the patient entered treatment, in early 2021, he was 11 months old; his developmental age, accounting for his preterm delivery, was 7 months. His functional abilities, however, lagged much farther behind. On the Rossetti Infant-Toddler Language Scale, his verbal skills were in the range of 0 to 3 months, and on the Peabody Developmental Motor Scales-2 test, he scored well below the fifth percentile. “He had difficulty with the most basic skills, like raising his head while lying on his belly,” recalls Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, his primary physical therapist. In twice-weekly sessions, Dr. Lam and her colleagues set out to improve the child’s strength, coordination, and awareness of his environment. “We began with exercises addressing his overall weakness, such as picking him up in ways that facilitated activation of his belly muscles,” Dr. Lam explains. “As he got stronger, we worked on sitting and crawling.” “We passed information back and forth. If one of us was working on a skill, the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” The physical and occupational therapy teams were in constant communication. “We passed information back and forth,” Dr. Lam says, “so that if one of us was working on a skill—say, trying to get him to engage with toys, or to use both hands for tasks—the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” In November 2021, the patient started aquatic therapy to further strengthen his core muscles. Within a few weeks, he could pull himself up to a standing position. Once he could remain upright for prolonged periods, Dr. Lam determined that he could benefit from orthotics and referred him to pediatric physiatry, for comprehensive care led by Patricia T. Tan, MD , medical director for pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation services at Rusk Rehabilitation. The physical therapy and physiatry teams collaborated to prescribe medical devices such as orthotics and assistive devices that helped get him crawling—and then walking—for increasing distances. “Our team performs comprehensive evaluations of the high-risk newborns, addressing concerns ranging from visual or hearing impairment to spasticity, muscle weakness, and gait abnormalities,” Dr. P. Tan says. At the same time, speech–language pathologists, led by Tina M. Tan, CCC-SLP , focused on improving the patient’s feeding, swallowing, and communication skills. Initially fed by a gastrostomy tube (G tube), he underwent a swallowing study to determine which foods and liquids he could safely eat and drink. Ongoing feeding therapy helped him develop the oral motor and swallowing skills he needed to ingest spoon-fed baby foods, chew solid foods, and drink from a cup and straw. By 29 months, he had acquired the communication skills of a typical 12- to 15-month-old—communicating with gestures, single words, and occasional two-word combinations; and following simple, context-related directives. The patient’s parents, meanwhile, were assigned to continue such lessons at home, a responsibility they embraced enthusiastically. NYU Langone’s social work and care management teams helped the couple, whose primary language was not English, navigate the intricacies of the healthcare and educational systems. The Power of a Team Approach As his third birthday approached, the patient underwent neurocognitive, behavioral, and physical testing to assess his readiness for preschool. Although his gross motor skills remained significantly delayed, he’d made remarkable progress. He could stand from the floor without assistance, ambulate independently across flat surfaces, and step over 2-inch obstacles. He could even navigate stairs, with close supervision. “Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” The patient had also demonstrated significant improvements in feeding and was eating solid foods and drinking from a straw. He was able to reduce his dependency on tube-feeding, taking in most of his needed nutrition by mouth. In speech, reasoning, and other neurocognitive areas, his scores ranged from below average to low average. Strikingly, however, he exhibited 83 percent mastery of numbers, 90 percent mastery of colors, and 100 percent mastery of letters. It was time to take another giant step. In September 2023, the patient enrolled in New York City’s 3-K pre-kindergarten program, where he continues to thrive. “To me, it seems miraculous that he was able to gain the skills necessary to participate in school,” Dr. Lam says. “I credit our team approach. Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” Pediatric Physical Therapy Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy, and associate director of Pediatric Therapy Services at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy and pediatric physical therapy supervisor at Rusk Rehabilitation. Patricia T. Tan, MD, is the medical director for Rusk Rehabilitation’s pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation service. She is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. Latest in Rehabilitation New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds An automated approach that uses AI could provide real-time feedback to improve rehabilitation training. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Rusk Rehabilitation’s board review course features lectures by leading experts—available on-demand to clinicians nationwide. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Pain specialist Dr. Jinpu Li highlights how combining education, psychology, medicine, and rehab enhances pediatric pain management. New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support According to the CDC, 46 percent of all healthcare workers reported feeling burned out in 2022, up from 38 percent in 2018. Depression and anxiety are also common among health workers. These conditions not only impact an individual’s overall health, but they can also lead to poor workplace performance, patient safety concerns, and medical errors. Recognizing that employee burnout is becoming a critical issue for healthcare systems, Thea Gallagher, PsyD , a clinical associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health, is working on new and innovative ways to intervene and support wellbeing. Under new grant funding from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Dr. Gallagher and her team are developing a digital wellness app, COBALT, to assess both subjective and objective symptoms of distress and burnout among healthcare workers. The mobile app will use artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to provide personalized mental health resources and microinterventions —focused resources or exercises designed to be brief and minimally demanding. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” “Burnout rates are rising, and frontline healthcare workers are often hit hardest,” Dr. Gallagher says. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” Developing the App The COBALT app will integrate multiple data sources from its users, including self-report measures, video analyzed by the Facial Action Coding System for emotion recognition, and audio transcripts analyzed by natural language processing for phrases tied to mental illness. “The app will quickly and efficiently categorize levels of mental health using machine learning and AI and direct users to personalized resources,” explains Dr. Gallagher. Active data will be collected at baseline and weekly, with passive data recorded via cell phone sensors and collected continuously. Once the models are trained on user-specific data, the goal is to use the app to detect, assess, and in some cases treat a number of mental health and wellness risks. “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing.” “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing,” says Dr. Gallagher. Early Success with a Web Platform Before joining NYU Langone, Dr. Gallagher played a key role in the development of a separate but related web platform, also called COBALT, while on the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania. The new app will build upon the success of the existing web platform, which is currently available to all NYU Langone staff. Dr. Gallagher emphasizes that with the integration of AI, the new app will be far more technologically advanced than the current web platform, which relies primarily on self-report measures. “All employees have access to the COBALT web platform, where they can complete wellness evaluations, and sign up for group resiliency sessions, mindfulness workshops, and other in-person offerings,” Dr. Gallagher says. She notes that users can engage with the platform as much or as little as they like. Everything that they view or engage with is anonymous and not connected to their name or identity, unless they voluntarily enter their personal information. Since its debut at NYU Langone, the COBALT web platform has been used by nearly 2,700 employees. Among these users, more than 500 have participated in clinical screening sessions. “Several thousand employees have utilized the web platform,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It is designed and intended to support, protect, and enhance the mental wellbeing and health of our employees.” Future Applications Although the initial phase of the DARPA project is focused on healthcare workers, Dr. Gallagher and her team plan to apply the app version of COBALT to address the mental health needs of other at-risk groups, such as active-duty military. “Long-term, we’d like to further develop the COBALT app as an evidence-based, scalable, mobile solution,” she says. “Leveraging this dataset may provide additional insights for personalizing the delivery of microinterventions that enhance wellbeing.” Thea Gallagher, PsyD, is a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the Department of Psychiatry. She specializes in prolonged exposure therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder, exposure and response prevention for obsessive compulsive disorder, and cognitive–behavioral treatments for other mental health illnesses. Latest in Psychiatry Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry The department chair discusses the current mental health awakening, his research on PTSD, and the future of psychiatry treatment. How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder Source: Getty Images A recent study published in Scientific Reports has uncovered new insights into how psilocybin, the psychoactive constituent of magic mushrooms, may modify brain function in people with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Emerging evidence—including a first-of-its-kind double-blind placebo-controlled trial led by NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators—has indicated that psilocybin could help sustain a reduction in alcohol consumption when paired with psychotherapy. The mechanism by which psilocybin therapy works on the brains of patients with AUD is still unclear. Functional MRI (fMRI) has offered initial clues into psilocybin’s modulating effects in nonaddiction populations. The new study is the first to explore the neural mechanisms of psilocybin-assisted therapy in AUD, according to the authors. “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction.” Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction,” says , director of the Center for Psychedelic Medicine, part of NYU Langone’s Department of Psychiatry Mapping Networks Affected by Psilocybin The latest study was conducted within the framework of the larger double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, and led by Dr. Bogenschutz and Broc Pagni, PhD , a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist. The researchers collected fMRI data from 11 adult patients with AUD. Participants completed task-based blood-oxygen-level-dependent fMRI two to three days before, and one to two days after, receiving either 25 mg of psilocybin or 50 mg of diphenhydramine. During the psilocybin session, participants were presented with images of alcoholic beverages and pictures designed to evoke positive, negative, and neutral emotional responses. Across both alcohol and emotional cues, the researchers found that psilocybin increased activity in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex and left caudate, and decreased activity in the insular, motor, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices and in the cerebellum. They also reported that in the case of positive cues, psilocybin increased participants’ right hippocampus activity and decreased left hippocampus activity. In response to negative cues, psilocybin increased activity in the supramarginal gyrus. Interpreting the Results According to Dr. Pagni, greater engagement of the prefrontal cortex and caudate and disengagement of the insula, motor, and cerebellar areas might suggest that psilocybin enhances executive control and diminishes craving. However, he notes that fMRI tasks that tap into these specific processes are needed to support these inferences. He further explains that the results suggest psilocybin’s effects on neural responses are largely consistent across stimulus type—an unexpected finding. “Consistently overlapping regions could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood stabilizing effect.” “We were expecting to see deactivation across brain regions that are hyperactive while viewing alcohol cues in AUD, but this was not the case,” says Dr. Pagni. “Consistently overlapping neural responses across the stimulus types could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood-stabilizing effect.” While the findings are intriguing, the researchers caution that these data are preliminary, and warrant replication in larger and more diverse samples before they can be accepted as generalizable. Opportunities for Intervention The investigators note that future research in this area holds potential to elucidate the etiology of AUD, and more broadly, identify novel neural targets to facilitate precision-based treatment for disorders of addiction. While medications exist for AUD, the effect sizes of currently approved treatments are small and limited to specific subpopulations, Dr. Bogenschutz explains. The team plans to conduct a larger trial with more robust analyses and end points—continuing to map the neural mechanisms of psilocybin in response to alcohol and emotional cues, but also tracking clinical outcomes over time. “We believe this trial will address significant questions regarding psilocybin’s effects on global brain functioning,” says Dr. Bogenschutz, “and serve as a valuable resource for psilocybin-based addiction research in the future.” Disclosures Dr. Bogenschutz is named as inventor on patent applications relating to the use of psilocybin for AUD, but has waived all rights and has no prospect of financial benefit. Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and the director of the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research centers around pharmacologic and psychosocial interventions to treat substance use disorders and other mental health conditions. Psychiatry, Cognitive Neuroscience Broc Pagni, PhD, is a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist at the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research focuses on identifying therapeutic psychological and neural mechanisms of psychedelic-assisted treatments. Conferences & Events NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health psychiatrists who joined international colleagues in New York City, May 4 to 8. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant The patient at his third birthday celebration. Source: NYU Langone Health A toddler with end-stage liver disease secondary to Alagille syndrome experienced a smooth recovery after surgeons at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform a successful split liver transplant. The 2-year-old patient was referred to the for evaluation by Adam Griesemer, MD Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “The patient’s recovery has been remarkable,” says Dr. Griesemer. “His quality of life has improved far sooner than would have been expected, and he remains playful and full of energy.” Nadia Ovchinsky, MD Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology , had been following this transplant patient since infancy. Alagille syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder that carries a mortality rate of up to 10 percent, runs in his family. “The degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” “Liver transplant was a challenging decision for this family,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. “However, the degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” Success Despite Risks The team anticipated an elevated risk of transplant-related complications due to the complex presentation of Alagille syndrome and the patient’s poor nutritional status. Despite months of aggressive supplementation, the patient consistently remained well below the first percentile for both height and weight. In addition to significant failure to thrive, he had renal tubular acidosis, pulmonary artery stenosis, fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies, and severe intractable pruritis. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” “We had a thorough discussion with the patient’s family, addressing the specific risks related to the split liver transplant and the potential advantages,” says Dr. Torres-Hernandez. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” The Split Liver Transplant After the patient was listed for transplantation, the team waited for the first appropriate organ offer. Within a month, the patient was offered a healthy adult liver for transplant. The organ would be too big for the recipient unless it was split into two, allowing both halves to be used for two different patients. For the pediatric recipient, the split graft was a left lateral lobe with a single left hepatic vein. For the adult patient, the split graft was the right lobe. “About 50 percent of liver transplants performed on children under the age of eight involve splitting a deceased donor’s liver,” Dr. Griesemer adds. “Split liver transplantation is an effective strategy to reduce the donor organ shortage and waitlist mortality, especially for pediatric patients.” During the surgery, the patient’s liver was completely removed. The left lateral segment graft was then transplanted to the recipient. “The size of the donor’s left lateral segment was almost exactly the same size as a normal liver for the age of the recipient,” says Dr. Griesemer. A Flawless Procedure After restoring blood flow to the transplant, the liver had excellent perfusion and immediately started to function well. According to Dr. Griesemer, the procedure’s success can be attributed to the collaboration and hard work of multiple team members, including surgeons, anesthesiologists, surgical assistants, scrub nurses, and leaders outside of the operating room. “The procedure was executed flawlessly,” says Dr. Griesemer. “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” Nine months after surgery, the patient’s recovery has been excellent, marked by consistent improvements in clinical and functional measures. “The patient’s quality of life has returned to normal, and he is meeting developmental milestones as expected,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. In the coming months, NYU Langone will launch a new program to improve care for those with Alagille syndrome, offering specialized support for both pediatric and adult patients. Dr. Ovchinsky, who will lead the initiative, explains that specialized care will include experts in hepatology, surgery, nephrology, and cardiology. Transplant Surgery, Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Adam Griesemer, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and the surgical director of the Pediatric Transplant Institute. He specializes in pediatric liver transplant surgery. Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery. He specializes in laparoscopic liver surgery and liver transplantation. Pediatric Hepatology Nadia Ovchinsky, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and director of the Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology. She specializes in pediatric liver diseases, including biliary atresia, Alagille syndrome, and acute and chronic liver failure. Latest in Pediatrics Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Dr. Cigdem Akman, medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program, on optimizing treatment for kids—and winning their parents' trust. When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse CT scan of the patient's Indiana Pouch. Source: NYU Langone Health As long-term survival following treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) continues to improve, urogynecologists may more frequently encounter post-cystectomy prolapse. Therefore, it is crucial to understand treatment options and align them with a patient’s lifestyle and sexual health priorities. In this Case of the Month, we describe a young, physically and sexually active patient with post-cystectomy prolapse who successfully underwent robotic sacrocolpopexy. The procedure carried risks due to her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesions. But collaboration with reconstructive urology made for a safe and effective surgery, and the patient continues to experience symptomatic relief nearly four years later. Below, we detail the procedure and why it was the best option. We also discuss the unique considerations of all available treatments, including vaginal pessaries, colpocleisis, and native tissue repair. We hope this case encourages other providers to consider that when sacrocolpopexy is the best option, a team-based approach can deliver success. Case Highlights: A 53-year-old MIBC survivor with vaginal protrusion was dissatisfied with a vaginal pessary and sought surgical intervention. Sacrocolpopexy was elected due to its durability and the patient’s desire to maintain sexual function. Urogynecology and reconstructive urology performed a successful procedure, which required unique port placement to accommodate distorted anatomy and extensive enterolysis due to peritoneal adhesive disease. As bladder cancer survivorship improves, the prevalence of post-cystectomy prolapse may rise; understanding treatment options and their relative risks and benefits is paramount. Background: Post-Cystectomy Prolapse In the female patient, radical cystectomy for MIBC traditionally involves en bloc resection of the bladder, urethra, uterus, cervix, bilateral adnexa, and anterior vaginal wall. This results in an anterior vaginal defect, which is closed by mobilizing a portion of the posterior vagina to create a vascularized flap. While reproductive organ sparing (ROS) cystectomy has gained popularity for patients with clinically localized disease, it is not yet considered standard of care, and most urologic oncologists report they do not routinely perform ROS cystectomy, even in eligible patients. A necessary consequence of radical cystectomy is that crucial vaginal support structures are excised or disrupted including DeLancey’s level I and level II support (see DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support below). After their operation, patients therefore have only distal vaginal support, likely putting them at increased risk for the development of prolapse. Because prolapse in patients with a history of radical cystectomy is poorly reported in the literature, the true incidence is unknown, but may be as high as 23 percent. DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support In 1992, Dr. John DeLancey described three distinct anatomic structures thought to be responsible for vaginal support. Level I includes the cardinal/uterosacral ligament complex and supports the vaginal apex. Level II supports the mid-vagina via the endopelvic fascia and its attachments to the lateral pelvic sidewalls at the arcus tendineus fascia pelvis. Level III provides distal vaginal support and is composed of vaginal attachments to the perineal membrane and perineal body. Dr. DeLancey’s framework remains foundational to understanding the anatomic structures, whose failure may contribute to the development of pelvic organ prolapse. Case Presentation The 53-year-old patient presented to the urogynecology clinic in 2020 complaining of bothersome vaginal protrusion. She had a history of two pregnancies (both cesarean deliveries), was sexually active, and a former smoker (>30 pack years). In 2018, she was treated for MIBC with radical cystectomy/urethrectomy, hysterectomy, bilateral salpingectomy, flap vaginoplasty, and continent cutaneous urinary diversion (Indiana Pouch). She was initially fitted with a ring with support pessary but was unhappy with this method of symptom relief and desired surgical intervention. The options for surgical management were reviewed in detail, with the understanding that outcomes data in this specific population are extremely sparse. The patient worked a physically demanding job and wished to retain the capacity for vaginal intercourse, making her a poor candidate for native tissue repair and ineligible for obliterative repair such as colpocleisis. Vaginally placed mesh products, which would have allowed for prolapse repair without necessitating peritoneal access, had been removed from the market by the FDA one year before. Ultimately, mesh-based repair with sacrocolpopexy was selected for its improved durability; however, this approach carried known risks, particularly given her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesive disease. Robotic Sacrocolpopexy A multidisciplinary approach was planned. Urogynecology partnered with reconstructive urology, the service that had performed her continent cutaneous urinary diversion, in order to ensure safe peritoneal access and lysis of adhesions. She also had a known parastomal hernia, and concomitant repair was planned. Her Indiana Pouch, which was located on the right, occupied most of the right lower quadrant, requiring planned adjustments to robotic port placement (Figure 1). Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s abdomen/pelvis with IV contrast demonstrating location and size of the Indiana Pouch. Overlaid with approximate location of robotic ports. Source: NYU Langone Health Sagittal imaging suggested the pouch would be adherent to the anterior abdominal wall and would therefore not impact sacral dissection or mesh placement along the right pelvic sidewall (Figure 2). Her stoma was located in the midline, at the umbilicus. Figure 2: Sagittal imaging demonstrating the Indiana Pouch located along the patient’s right anterior abdominal wall. Source: NYU Langone Health After induction of general anesthesia, a 14 French foley catheter was placed through the stoma to drain the neobladder intraoperatively. Peritoneal access was gained through an open approach at Palmer’s Point and allowed careful inspection of the peritoneal cavity, which revealed marked adhesive disease around the Indiana Pouch and throughout the anterior abdomen and pelvis. The sacral promontory and right pelvic sidewall were relatively spared. Additional robotic ports were placed a minimum of 8 cm from one another, all on the left side of the abdomen to avoid injury to the Indiana Pouch (Figure 1). The reconstructive urology team performed extensive lysis of adhesions to mobilize the small bowel out of the pelvis, expose the vagina, and expose the stoma for parastomal hernia repair. The small bowel was so densely adherent to the vaginal apex that an intentional vaginotomy (colpotomy) was required, which was repaired with absorbable suture in two layers before mesh placement. Anterior vaginal dissection was not required, given the absence of the bladder and urethra. The rectovaginal space was dissected in the usual fashion; this space was not significantly scarred. An ultra-lightweight Y-shaped polypropylene mesh was introduced and attached to the vagina with interrupted CV-2 Gore-Tex sutures. After dissection of the peritoneum and fibroadipose tissue from the presacral space, CV-2 Gore-Tex was used to suspend the mesh to the anterior longitudinal ligament overlying the upper third of the S1 vertebra. Reperitonealization of the mesh was attempted in order to minimize the risk of further bowel adhesive disease. The sacral arm of the mesh was covered with peritoneum without difficulty. Given the prior radical anterior pelvic surgery, we were not able to sufficiently mobilize peritoneum to cover the vaginal portion of the mesh. A flap of fibroadipose tissue from the lower anterior abdominal wall was mobilized and used to cover the majority of the mesh. A surgical adhesion barrier was placed over the remaining exposed mesh. The patient had an uneventful recovery and remains free from prolapse symptoms and without evidence of recurrent bladder cancer nearly four years later. Discussion In this case of post-cystectomy prolapse, the patient expressed dissatisfaction with a vaginal pessary and sought a surgical intervention that would have little impact on her sexual health. Sacrocolpopexy provided a durable treatment and was successfully performed using an interdisciplinary approach to address the altered anatomy. The case illustrates why selecting an approach to treatment for pelvic organ prolapse in a patient with prior radical cystectomy requires an understanding of patient-specific risk factors, lifestyle, and symptom relief priorities. Data specific to this patient population is extremely limited, but virtually all treatment options have unique considerations. Vaginal Pessaries: All patients with prolapse should be counseled about the safety and availability of vaginal pessaries for symptomatic relief, and those with a history of radical cystectomy are no exception. The two measurements most reliably associated with the ability to successfully use a vaginal pessary are the genital hiatus (GH) and the total vaginal length. Patients with a short vagina and wide GH will not be able to accommodate a pessary large enough so that it would not be at risk for expulsion during physical activity or Valsalva. Following radical cystectomy with flap vaginoplasty, the vaginal length or width may be restricted, such that successful pessary fitting is not possible. However, the likelihood of successful pessary fitting in this population has not been studied. Colpocleisis: Obliterative prolapse repair with colpocleisis is a viable surgical option for patients with a history of radical cystectomy, but it is only appropriate for those who are certain they are not interested in future vaginally penetrative intercourse. Colpocleisis has extremely high success rates and does not require peritoneal entry, so it is therefore an excellent option for patients with complicated surgical abdomens. Long-term recurrence, patient satisfaction, and regret rates are favorable. Native Tissue Repair: Native tissue repair, such as the uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrospinous fixation, are plagued by high prolapse recurrence rates, and it stands to reason that durability may be further compromised following radical cystectomy due to the absence of pubocervical fascia. Vaginally placed mesh materials for repair of prolapse promised a more durable option for vaginal repair and have been performed with favorable outcomes in women with a history of radical cystectomy. However, studies of vaginal mesh for prolapse ultimately failed to demonstrate improved efficacy over native tissue repair, contributing to the FDA’s 2019 decision to halt all sales, distribution, and marketing of vaginal mesh for prolapse. Sacrocolpopexy: Sacrocolpopexy is, of course, potentially complicated by the risks associated with intraperitoneal surgery in a complicated surgical abdomen. Risks include injury to the neobladder, catheterizable channel, or transplanted ureters. There is also a risk of injury to small or large bowel or other intraperitoneal structures due to adhesive disease. However, sacrocolpopexy may present the most durable option for patients who wish to retain the ability for penetrative intercourse. In conclusion, treatment options for prolapse carry unique benefits and risks for this population and patients should be counseled that there is a paucity of safety and efficacy data to guide management. Ultimately, choice of prolapse treatment should be highly individualized based on an understanding of the patient’s anatomy and overall health priorities. References 1. Gupta N, et al. Clin Genitourin Cancer . 2023;21(4):e236-e241. DOI 2. DeLancey JO. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 1992;166(6 Pt 1):1717-1728. 3. Lipetskaia L, et al. Female Pelvic Med Reconstr Surg . 2021;27(4):e501-e504. 4. Richter LA, et al. . 2021;156:e20-e29. 5. Clemons JL, et al. . 2004;190(2):345-350. 6. FitzGerald MP, et al. Int Urogynecol J Pelvic Floor Dysfunct . 2006;17(3):261-271. 7. Song X, et al. . 2016;23(6):621-625. 8. Jelovsek JE, et al. . 2018;319(15):1554-1565. 9. Graefe F, et al. Int Urogynecol J . 2013;24(8):1407-1409. 10. Kuwata T, et al. IJU Case Rep . 2022;5(5):389-392. 11. Urogynecologic surgical mesh implants. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/implants-and-prosthetics/urogynecologic-surgical-mesh-implants . Accessed 8/22/2024. 12. Lee D, et al. Curr Urol Rep . 2019;20(11):71. Lauren E. Stewart, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology. Her clinical practice focuses on pelvic floor disorders such as pelvic organ prolapse, urinary incontinence and the sequelae of obstetric trauma. Latest in Urology Case of the Month TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst Dr. Sadeghi-Nejad used the technique to treat a 28-year-old’s cyst-related infertility and ejaculatory symptoms. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis For Dr. Katie Murray’s 91-year-old patient with UTUC, Jelmyto provided confidence in cancer control after tumor resection. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet Dr. Stacy Loeb shares how her patient was able to discontinue tadalafil after eliminating animal products from his diet. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Source: Getty Images. Prostate cancer diagnoses currently rely on time-intensive methodologies. Most biopsies are collected in an office and then sent off to a lab for processing before stained slides finally land on a pathologist’s desk for analysis. These workflows can take several days, causing critical decisions regarding treatment to be delayed. If pathologic analysis of prostate tissue could happen in real time, clinical decisions could be made within a matter of minutes, potentially improving oncologic outcomes. A team at NYU Langone Health and its is working to make this a reality. Their new research reveals that combining stimulated Raman histology (SRH)—a breakthrough in optics that allows for the imaging of fresh tissue—with artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to accurately detect prostate cancer in just under four minutes —without the need for pathological processing and interpretation. The effort is being led by urologic oncologist , and AI expert Daniel A. Orringer, MD . Dr. Orringer, a neurosurgeon at NYU Langone’s , is also pioneering the methodology for use in brain tumor imaging and diagnosis molecular classification of glioma “The possible applications are numerous.” “This approach marks an important step forward in prostate cancer diagnostics,” Dr. Taneja says. “The possible applications are numerous.” Pairing SRH and AI Dr. Taneja and his team, including former fellow Miles Mannas, MD, now at the Vancouver Prostate Center, hypothesized that an AI convolutional neural network (CNN), in combination with SRH, could address the existing challenges with real-time pathologic analysis of prostate tissues, including lengthy processing times and a shortage of pathologists with specialized training. In the recent study, the researchers developed a workflow for SRH CNN model development and testing, training the model on 303 prostate biopsies from 100 participants. The performance of the AI was then evaluated on an independent 113-biopsy test set. A previous report from the team confirmed that SRH images allow for the accurate identification of prostate cancer by pathologists. Remarkably, prostate biopsy images obtained through SRH could be generated within 2 to 2.75 minutes, and the AI system achieved a rapid classification of biopsies with cancer, with a potential identification time of 1 to 2.5 minutes. Moreover, the system demonstrated an overall accuracy of 96.5 percent in detecting prostate cancer, with a sensitivity of 96.3 percent and a specificity of 96.6 percent. The CNN’s accuracy matched that of four genitourinary pathologists interpreting the SRH images. Broad Applicability Future studies will focus on the ability of the SRH CNN model to inform prostate cancer grading, an area not addressed in the current work. With ongoing validation studies and collaborations, Dr. Taneja expects the system to have broad applicability in prostate cancer settings. For example, the approach could improve biopsy targeting and reduce the number of biopsies required to establish a diagnosis. The technology could also be applied to intraoperative margin assessment for both radical prostatectomy and partial gland cryoablation. “We’ve already started testing the system in cryosurgery,” says Dr. Taneja. “In these settings,” the authors write, “the identification of prostate cancer adjacent to treatment margin may guide further treatment, making the identification of prostate cancer within one minute invaluable.” Samir Taneja, MD, is the James M. Neissa and Janet Riha Neissa Professor of Urologic Oncology, a professor of radiology, and vice chair of the Department of Urology. He specializes in the detection and treatment of prostate cancer. Latest in Urology Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Histotripsy, first developed two decades ago, has emerged as a groundbreaking tissue ablation technology with diverse potential applications , from benign prostatic hyperplasia to cardiovascular disease and cancer treatment. This noninvasive, non-ionizing, and non-thermal ablation method is guided by real-time imaging. Using short pulses of focused ultrasound, it mechanically destroys tissue through cavitation. A cloud of rapidly oscillating microbubbles pulverizes the target into acellular debris, which is eventually reabsorbed into the body. In a milestone decision in October 2023, the FDA approved the first clinical use of histotripsy for the treatment of primary and metastatic liver tumors. NYU Langone Health’s is the first facility in New York City to offer the technique, which has several advantages over previous methods. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH Unlike surgical ablation, histotripsy causes no bleeding, and minimal pain or scarring. It eliminates the “heat-sink” effect that limits thermal techniques near delicate structures such as bile ducts or blood vessels. Precision is further enhanced by dose-related tissue selectivity, and by continuous monitoring via ultrasound. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation because their tumors are in locations that are unsafe to target with thermal techniques,” says surgical oncologist , who co-leads the histotripsy team at Perlmutter with interventional radiologist Mikhail Silk, MD . “This method has the potential to be first-line therapy for smaller tumors in the liver, though clinical trials for that application have not yet begun.” A Surprising Immunological Effect The FDA’s approval of histotripsy was informed by the multicenter, international #HOPE4LIVER trial, with a primary endpoint of technical success within 36 hours of treatment. The study found a primary efficacy of 95.5 percent in the 44 tumors treated, with a complication rate of 6.8 percent (comparable to other focal liver therapies). Results at six-month follow-up are expected to be published soon. Evidence suggests the technique can also have a more surprising effect: training the immune system to destroy tumors elsewhere in the liver, by revealing antigens normally hidden behind cancer cells’ outer membranes. This mechanism could also potentially prevent recurrence. “Histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment.” “In preclinical studies, histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment,” says Dr. Silk. “The data on these potential benefits is preliminary, but it provides a promising avenue for further research.” A Precise, Streamlined Procedure Hepatic histotripsy is delivered using a system that includes an imaging probe, a programming station, and a focused ultrasound transducer attached to a robotic arm. At NYU Langone, treatment is administered in the interventional radiology suite. After the patient is placed under anesthesia and intubated, the team performs a diagnostic ultrasound. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure,” says Dr. Hewitt. “We can treat 50 to 60 percent of the liver, including areas behind the ribs.” Once the target zone is visualized, the device is programmed to guide the transducer, working in increments of 3 to 6 millimeters. To minimize respiratory movement that could interfere with accuracy, patients receive jet ventilation. The bubble cloud acts as a natural contrast agent, allowing clinicians to calibrate and assess the treatment as they work. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure.” Dr. Hewitt The procedure, which takes about two hours from start to finish, requires little recovery time. And because histotripsy enables the body to reabsorb the targeted tissue, rather than leaving a necrotized remnant, long-term complications are rare. Improving Outcomes and the Patient Experience These benefits help explain why NYU Langone became one of the first health systems in the nation to deploy the new technique. “We have a longstanding commitment to leveraging innovative technology, and we’re fortunate to have the institutional resources to make that possible,” says Dr. Hewitt, who also leads Perlmutter’s robotic pancreatic surgery program—the highest-volume practice of its kind in the city. “Our adoption of histotripsy reflects our central mission: to improve outcomes, and to optimize the overall experience for the patient.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor in the Department of Surgery. His research interests focus on improving outcomes in surgical oncology. Vascular and Interventional Radiology Mikhail Silk, MD, is a clinical assistant professor