Security, etc.) to help inform the design from their perspectives. All key design decisions are made and agreed upon by the end of this phase. The PM works with the A/E Team to keep scope in line with what was initially approved, with the addition of any changes incorporated during preliminary design. The PM must approve any changes to the agreed upon and authorized scope of the project as such changes would have impacts on the project budget. An estimate is prepared at the end of the Design Development phase and the budget must be reconciled with the project scope prior to proceeding with the next phase. In addition, the User must sign off on the floor plan(s) in a timely manner in order for the A/E Team to proceed into the Construction Document phase and maintain the overall project schedule. A/E Deliverables: Meeting Minutes Schedule Cost Estimate Updated BIM Execution Plan (if applicable) Final Program Analysis Final Scope Narrative (incl. user requirements such as storage needs, etc.) Updated “Basis of Design” document DD Drawings: Floor Plans (w/ FFE, dimensions, partition tags, RED+F room numbers, etc.) Enlarged Floor Plans (of typical and major spaces) Reflected Ceiling Plans Elevations NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 23 2023 Sections Schedules (i.e. Room Finish, Furniture, Door, Door Hardware, Lighting, Plumbing Fixture, Toilet Accessory, Building Accessory, Pantry Appliance, etc.) Typical and Major Details (i.e. building envelope, lobby / reception, millwork, etc.) CAD Renderings of major spaces MEP/FP DD drawings (including double line HVAC drawings and riser diagrams) Structural DD drawings (including typical details) Signage and Wayfinding package including a list of all applicable codes, list of assumptions and observations, location plans (including locations of brand/donor related signage), message schedule (including room and wayfinding signage, recycling posters and decals, code required emergency/egress signage, health/safety signage, etc.) and simple elevation renderings for “high profile” sign types. “High profile” sign types shall include brand/donor related signage such as: Building ID Branding/Recognition Canopy Signage/Recognition Building Entry Signage/Recognition Main Lobby Recognition Floor Recognition Departmental Recognition Waiting Area Recognition Staging/phasing plans (if applicable) Updated sample materials Finish and Furniture Booklets Updated Equipment List Updated architectural and engineering specifications Outline List of Special Inspections or Testing required by the Building Code  Construction Documents (CD) This phase takes the design as developed and finalized during Design Development and documents it for construction. Details are further refined as construction issues are addressed. The main emphasis of this phase is to verify that all needed information is on the drawings and in the specifications so that the project can be bid for construction. Typically, there are fewer meetings in this phase that require the involvement of the Users, as the emphasis is documentation of earlier design decisions. Again, previously agreed upon and authorized scope, schedule and budget must be adhered to, and the Project Manager works with the A/E Team to keep scope in line, taking into account any changes incorporated during previous phases. At the end of this phase the Project Manager puts the project out to bid. A/E Deliverables: Meeting Minutes Schedule Cost Estimate Final BIM Execution Plan (if applicable) Final “Basis of Design” document NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 24 2023 CD Drawings: Floor Plans (fully developed and coordinated) Enlarged Floor Plans (of typical and major spaces) Reflected Ceiling Plans Elevations Sections Schedules (i.e. Room Finish, Furniture, Door, Door Hardware, Lighting, Plumbing Fixture, Toilet Accessory, Building Accessory, etc.) All details (fully developed) CAD Renderings of major spaces MEP/FP construction drawings (fully developed and coordinated) Structural construction drawings (fully developed and coordinated) Final Signage and Wayfinding package including list of all applicable codes, final Room Numbering Plan issued by the Space Planning and Management group, location plans, message schedule (including room and wayfinding signage, recycling posters and decals, code required emergency/egress signage, health/safety, etc.), signage quantity list, typical and major details/elevations and specifications. Donor Opportunity package (if applicable) including a donor opportunity schedule, location plans, elevations, details and perspective renderings. The donor opportunity schedule shall be broken down by floor, room type / name with corresponding sign location tag and fundraising tiers as shown below: Tier 1: Building Tier 2: Floor Tier 3: Department / Unit Tier 4: Large Area / Room Tier 5: Small Area / Room Construction and Demolition Waste Management Plan (if applicable) Final staging/phasing plans (if applicable) Addendums issued prior to bidding Final sample materials Final Finish and Furniture Booklets Final Equipment List Final architectural and engineering specifications Final List of Special Inspections or Testing required by the Building Code 3. Construction Phase After the Design phase the Project Manager coordinates construction of the project according to the construction drawings and specifications set by the Contract Documents. Project Managers have expertise in architecture, engineering, design and construction to bring capital construction and renovation projects forward from design to completion and occupancy.  Bidding and Negotiation (B/N) As a given project moves from development to the construction phase, the Project Manager initiates and oversees the bidding and negotiation procedure, forwarding contract documents to a list of pre qualified contractors to solicit bids. During the ensuing bid period, the Project Manager and a NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 25 2023 consulting team (typically an architect and engineer) answer questions raised by bidders, making sure all bidders are aware of all questions asked and answered. At the end of bidding, contractors submit their proposed prices in sealed bids. Once the bids are opened, a leveling process ensues ̶ a critical part of the process; leveling vets out discrepancies among bids to ensure an “apples to apples” comparison. A/E Deliverables: Meeting Minutes Participation in Pre Bid Conferences and Site Walkthroughs Bid Documents (Instructions to Bidders, Bid Form, Drawings and Specifications) Written RFI Responses Review and Approval of product substitution(s), “or equal” product(s) Bid Leveling and Evaluation Assist with bid negotiations and bidder selection Final Construction Documents (including supplemental Addendums issued prior to award of construction contract)  Construction Administration (CA) Once leveling is completed, the project is awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest bid, and a contract sets an agreed upon price for the work and commits the winning contractor to the authorized scope, schedule and budget. Starting with a construction kick off meeting and continuing through the life of the project, the Project Manager sets goals and continually reviews the progress of construction with a focus on maintaining schedule and budget. During construction, the Project Manager also orchestrates the coordination required with all other team members and organizations with ancillary project responsibilities, such as the Design Studio, Facilities, IT, Environmental Health & Safety, Radiation Safety, Infection Prevention and Control, Life Safety, Clinical Engineering and Security; as well as interior designers and other specialty consultants. During this phase the A/E Team is responsible for helping the Contractor build the project as specified in the NYU Langone approved Construction Documents. This is done through coordination with NYU Langone and the builder, inspection of physical “as built” conditions and review of project documents prepared by the Contractor. A/E Deliverables: Meeting Minutes, when deemed necessary Attendance at Regular Job Progress Meetings Visual inspection of construction work Written report to document deficiencies, quality and quantity of work inspected Recommendation to reject work not in compliance with Construction Documents Direct minor changes in construction work Written RFI Responses or Change Directives Shop Drawing Review and Approval (Note: Refer to the Design Review Process subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information.) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 26 2023 Review and Approval of material sample(s) (Note: Refer to the Design Review Process subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information.) Review and Approval of product substitution(s), “or equal” product(s) (Note: Substitutions require prior approval from RED+F’s Design Studio) CA Drawings: Bulletins issued after award of construction contract (including supplemental or revised drawings, specifications, sketches and other documents issued during construction) Final “as built” drawings received from contractor Updated BIM model and Construction Documents reflecting construction related design changes w/ respect to floor plans, RCPs, Structural and MEP/FP field changes Recommendation of testing and inspection laboratories or consultants Maintenance and operating instructions and manuals, equipment manuals, warranties, guarantees, certificates of inspection, test results, approvals and related documents, and all other Construction Contract close out documents Review and Recommendation regarding Change Order Proposals Review of Contractor’s Applications for Payment Issuance of Certificates of Payment, as appropriate Sign Off as required by Regulatory Agencies Preparation or, if prepared by others, review and approval of punch lists Inspection of the project to determine substantial completion Substantial Completion Checklist Certificate of Substantial Completion with punch lists and list of acceptable non conforming work attached, if appropriate  Close Out (CO) Once the project is completed, the Project Manager initiates the closeout procedure, makes certain that all installed components are operating as specified, and the newly opened facility project performs as designed. During this phase the A/E Team is responsible for bringing the project to closure ensuring that all deliverables are in compliance with the Contract Documents, all necessary documents (such as equipment manuals, warranties, guarantees, etc.) have been delivered to NYU Langone Health, all required regulatory sign offs have been obtained, all punch list items are completed to the satisfaction of NYU Langone Health, and final payment request has been reviewed and approved. A/E Deliverables: Participation in Project Close Out Meeting Close Out Drawings: Filing of amended Construction Documents with DOB and other authorities having jurisdiction “Final record drawings” incorporating all design changes subsequent to issuance of the Construction Documents. As Built “Basis of Design” document As Built Finish and Furniture Booklets NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 27 2023 Finish Photography Complete sets of regulatory approvals Maintenance/cleaning and operating instructions and manuals, equipment manuals, warranties, guarantees, certificates of inspection, test results, approvals and related documents, and all other Construction Contract close out documents. Completion of Substantial Completion and Project Close Out Checklists (refer to the Close Out Package subsection of these Design Guidelines) Inspection of the project to determine final completion Issuance of the Certificate of Final Completion Review and Approval of final payment to contractor 4. To assist the A/E Team, below is a summary of A/E Deliverables for the Design Phases [Schematic Design (SD), Design Development (DD) and Construction Documents (CD)]: A/E DELIVERABLES for the DESIGN PHASES PHASE SD DD CD Project Documentation Meeting Minutes Schedule Cost Estimate BIM Execution Plan (if applicable) Outline Updated Final Feasibility Studies Program Analysis Outline Final Scope Narrative (incl. user requirements such as storage needs, etc.) Outline Final “Basis of Design” document Outline Updated Final List of Special Inspections or Testing required by the Building Code Outline Final Drawings Architectural drawings Demolition plans Floor plans (w/ FFE, material notes, etc.) Floor Plans (w/ FFE, dimensions, partition tags, RED+F room #s, etc.) Floor Plans (fully developed and coordinated) Enlarged Floor Plans (of typical and major spaces) Reflected Ceiling Plans Elevations Sections Schedules (i.e. Room Finish, Furniture, Door, Door Hardware, Lighting, Plumbing Fixture, Toilet Accessory, etc.) Typical and Major Details All details (fully developed) CAD Renderings of major spaces MEP/FP drawings Schematic drawings (single line acceptable) DD drawings (incl. double line HVAC drawings and riser diagrams) Construction drawings (fully developed and coordinated) Structural drawings Schematic drawings (i.e. primary structural system) DD drawings (incl. typical details) Construction drawings (fully developed and coordinated) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 28 2023 A/E DELIVERABLES for the DESIGN PHASES (CONT’D) PHASE SD DD CD Drawings (cont’d) Signage & Wayfinding package incl. list of all applicable codes, list of assumptions and observations, location plans (including locations of brand/donor related signage), message schedule, simple elevation renderings for “high profile” sign types incl. list of all applicable codes, final Room Numbering Plan issued by SPM group, location plans, message schedule, signage quantity list, details/elevations and specifications Donor Opportunity Package (if applicable) including a donor opportunity schedule, location plans, elevations, details and perspective renderings. Construction and Demolition Waste Management Plan (if applicable) Staging/Phasing plans (if applicable) Outline Final Addendums (issued prior to bidding) Specifications Sample materials Outline Updated Final Finish and Furniture Booklets Outline Final Equipment List Outline Updated Final Architectural and Engineering specifications Outline Updated Final 5. To assist the A/E Team, below is a summary of A/E Deliverables for the Construction Phases [Bidding and Negotiation (B/N), Construction Administration (CA) and Close Out (CO)]: A/E DELIVERABLES for the CONSTRUCTION PHASES PHASE B/N CA CO Project Documentation Meeting Minutes, when deemed necessary Participation in Pre Bid Conferences and Site Walkthroughs Written RFI Responses Bid Leveling and Evaluation Assist with bid negotiations and bidder selection Attendance at Regular Job Progress Meetings Visual inspection of construction work Written report to document deficiencies, quality and quantity of work inspected Recommendation to reject work not in compliance with Construction Documents Direct minor changes in construction work Written RFI responses or Change Directives Recommendation of testing and inspection laboratories or consultants Maintenance and operating instructions and manuals, equipment manuals, warranties, guarantees, certificates of inspection, test results, approvals and related documents, and all other Construction Contract close out documents Review and Recommendation regarding Change Order Proposals Review of Contractor’s Applications for Payment Issuance of Certificates of Payment, as appropriate Sign Off as required by Regulatory Agencies Preparation or, if prepared by others, review and approval of punch lists NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PROJECT DELIVERY PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 29 2023 A/E DELIVERABLES for the CONSTRUCTION PHASES (CONT’D) PHASE B/N CA CO Project Documentation (cont’d) Inspection of the project to determine substantial completion Substantial Completion Checklist Certificate of Substantial Completion with punch lists and list of acceptable non conforming work attached, if appropriate Participation in Project Close Out Meeting As Built “Basis of Design” document As Built Finish and Furniture Booklets Finish Photography Complete sets of regulatory approvals Completion of Substantial Completion and Project Close Out Checklists Inspection of project to determine final completion Issuance of the Certificate of Final Completion Review and Approval of final payment to contractor Drawings Bid Documents (Instructions to Bidders, Bid Form, Drawings and Specifications) Final Construction Documents (incl. supplemental Addendums issued prior to award of construction contract) Bulletins issued after award of construction contract (incl. supplemental or revised drawings, specifications, sketches and other documents issued during construction) Final “as built” drawings received from contractor Updated BIM model and Construction Documents reflecting construction related design changes w/ respect to floor plans, RCPs, Structural and MEP/FP field changes Filing of amended Construction Documents with DOB and other authorities having jurisdiction “Final record drawings” incorporating all design changes subsequent to issuance of the Construction Documents Specifications Review and Approval of product substitution(s), “or equal” product(s) [Note: Substitutions require prior approval from RED+F’s Design Studio) Shop Drawing Review and Approval Review and Approval of material sample(s) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BASIS OF DESIGN Real Estate Development and Facilities 30 2023 BASIS OF DESIGN The Basis of Design report shall be a word document providing general project information including a project narrative, specific applicable codes, as well as architectural, structural and MEP/FP narratives. This document shall be submitted by the A/E Team as part of Schematic Design, Design Development and the Construction Document phases. It shall also be included in the “As Built” package at the end of the Construction Administration phase. The purpose of the Basis of Design report is to ensure that the owner and consultants have agreed to the scope and code interpretations in a clear and succinct manner. The following shall be included in the Basis of Design report: 1. Cover Page Title: Basis of Design Report Project Name: PIM #: Prepared by: Date and Rev #: 2. Table of Contents 3. Project Narrative Project name Location and size Type of project (renovation or new construction) Consultant Team Information (i.e. Architect of Record, Engineer(s) of Record, Specialty Consultants, etc.) 4. Applicable codes List of all applicable codes and specific code requirements 5. Architectural Narrative Brief description of architectural design and finishes used. Program which includes the list of spaces and square footages 6. Structural Narrative Brief description of structural systems for the foundation, floor, columns and roofs. 7. MEP/FP Narrative Brief description of the systems for HVAC, Electrical, Plumbing and Fire Protection. 8. Sustainability Narrative Brief description of the project’s environmental and sustainability goals and the methods that will be used to meet them. Each revision shall be dated. All changes shall be tracked to compare the current revised version to the previous version. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 31 2023 DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS The Design Studio at RED+F provides architectural and interior design review on capital projects throughout NYU Langone Health. The studio’s goal is to ensure projects are designed, detailed and built in conformance with NYU Langone’s mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research and comply with our Design Principles as outlined in these Design Guidelines:  Design Quality  Construction Quality  Cost Effectiveness  Schedule Compliance  Design Flexibility  Efficient, Functional and Practical  Intuitive Wayfinding  Durable Materials  Attention to Details  Collaborative Process The information provided in this subsection includes: 1. Design Studio Involvement per Phase 2. Design Studio, PM and A/E Team Meeting(s) 3. Design Review Meeting(s) with the EVP/VD of RED+F 1. Design Studio Involvement per Phase The RED+F Design Studio is comprised of four groups: Architecture, Interior/Furniture, Signage/Wayfinding and Art. Each group will provide feedback at certain phases. Below is a list of the groups’ involvement per phase: Phase Architecture Group Interior/Furniture Group Signage/Wayfinding Group Art Group SD DD CD B/N CA Legend: SD = Schematic Design B/N = Bidding and Negotiation DD = Design Development CA = Construction Administration CD = Construction Documents NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 32 2023 2. Design Studio, PM and A/E Team Meeting(s) The number of design meetings between the A/E Team, PM and the RED+F Design Studio will depend on the size and complexity of the project and how properly the A/E Team develops a project in accordance with the design direction provided. The Design Studio shall receive a half size set of the drawings after each phase. The following describes design issues the Design Studio will opine on per phase.  Kick Off The RED+F PM will schedule a separate meeting with the Design Studio at the start of the project and provide the following information. Please note, the Design Studio cannot assist until this information is provided: Project Name and Address PIM number Scope of the project (program/department, phasing, existing conditions, etc.) Budgets for Furniture, Signage and Art Schedule  Schematic Design Review the basic plan organization (parti). Review the plans and RCP. Discuss basic material and furniture types that should be considered.  Design Development Architecture Group: Finalize the plan’s organization and confirm it is developing properly. Review the plan, RCP, elevations, sections, schedules (including plumbing fixtures, toilet accessories, building accessories, and pantry appliances), and typical and major details. Review the proposed materials to confirm they are reinforcing the parti. Review waste management processes and products (including recycling receptacles). Interior/Furniture Group: Discuss budget and phasing with PM. Provide a list of FF&E items to be salvaged for reuse, recycled or sent back to the manufacturer. Review the furniture layouts (including recycling receptacles). After the A/E Team has finalized their furniture layout, the CAD files will be sent to an approved furniture vendor. The furniture vendor will draw up the actual furniture pieces in the floor plan and send back to the A/E Team. Review the proposed materials to confirm they are reinforcing the parti. Signage/Wayfinding Group: Discuss budget with PM. Provide a list of existing signage to be salvaged for reuse. Discuss the approach and process for signage design and procurement. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 33 2023 Review Signage and Wayfinding package including: location plans, branding, room numbering system, message schedule (including room and wayfinding signage, recycling posters and decals, code required emergency/egress signage, etc.) digital signage, and atypical signage. Art Group: Discuss budget with PM. Provide a list of existing art to be salvaged for reuse. Discuss locations for the owner selected art. Coordinate lighting. Confirm electrical devices (i.e. light switches, fire strobes, thermostats, electrical outlets, telephone/data outlets, etc.), room and directional signage, and furniture are not blocking art locations.  Construction Documents Architecture Group: Finalize the plan, RCP, elevations, sections, schedules (including plumbing fixtures, toilet accessories, building accessories, and pantry appliances), and typical and major details (including millwork details). Finalize material selection in relation to the parti. Review any modifications to the architecture due to the final furniture layout. Finalize waste management processes and products (including recycling receptacles). Interior/Furniture Group: Finalize budget and phasing with PM. Review final furniture layout (including recycling receptacles). Finalize material selection in relation to the parti. Review any modifications to the architecture due to the final furniture layout. Signage/Wayfinding Group: Finalize budget with PM. Review final Signage and Wayfinding package including final Room Numbering Plan issued by the Space Planning and Management group, location plans, message schedule (including room and wayfinding signage, recycling posters and decals, code required emergency/egress signage, etc.), typical and major elevations/details, and specifications. Review Donor Opportunity package (if applicable) including a donor opportunity schedule, location plans, elevations, details and perspective renderings. Art Group: Finalize budget with PM. Finalize locations for the owner selected art. Finalize lighting. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS Real Estate Development and Facilities 34 2023 Finalize locations of electrical devices (i.e. light switches, fire strobes, thermostats, electrical outlets, telephone/data outlets, etc.), room and directional signage, and furniture are not blocking art locations.  Construction Administration Architecture Group: Review any design related issues during the CA phase. Review shop drawings for plumbing fixtures, toilet accessories, building accessories, pantry appliances, recycling and millwork. Review and approval of product substitutions. Walk the construction site at appropriate intervals ( sheetrock installed, painting, construction completion, Post Occupancy review). Review punchlist submitted by Architect. Interior/Furniture Group: Review furniture shop drawings for fabrication. Review material sample(s). Review and approval of product substitutions. Review furniture installation. Walk the construction site at appropriate intervals ( sheetrock installed, painting, construction completion, Post Occupancy review). Review punchlist submitted by Architect. Signage/Wayfinding Group: Review signage shop drawings for fabrication. Review signage installation. Walk the construction site at appropriate intervals ( sheetrock installed, construction completion, Post Occupancy review). Participate in punchlist walk through with Architect. Review punchlist created / submitted by Architect. Art Group: Coordinate art installation. Walk the construction site at appropriate intervals ( sheetrock installed, construction completion, Post Occupancy review). 3. Design Review Meeting(s) with the EVP of RED+F After a project has been vetted by the Design Studio the project will be reviewed by the Executive Vice President and Vice Dean of RED+F. The number of design presentations will depend on the size and complexity of the project and how properly the A/E Team develops a project in accordance with the design direction provided. A project may be reviewed once or several times. The project may be presented to the EVP/VD of RED+F either by the A/E Team or by the Design Studio. The Program Director and Senior Director of Design will determine how this will be presented on a case by case basis. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 35 2023 PRESENTATION MATERIALS In communicating the design to NYU Langone Health, the A/E Team shall provide presentation materials that are clear and easy to understand. Plan Diagrams, Reflected Ceiling Plans (RCP), Material/Finish Diagrams, Material/Finish samples, Perspective Renderings, and Furniture cut sheets are to be presented during the design phases, with any additional or supplemental information as may be necessary to clearly communicate the quality of the space. Below are some examples of acceptable presentation materials: 1. Schematic Design Phase  Plan Diagrams Plan diagrams shall be presented to NYU Langone during the schematic design phase. Diagrams shall be labeled and color coded with a key. They shall convey the overall plan organization (parti), programmatic spaces, key features, circulation, and highlight natural light and views (inside and out). Below are acceptable examples: Plans: Ballinger NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 36 2023 2. Design Development Phase  Plan Diagrams Plan diagrams shall be presented to NYU Langone during the design development phase. Rooms shall be labeled, furniture drawn, and the drawings shall be to a scale with a key designating the various materials. They shall be presented when materials and finishes are being reviewed. Below are acceptable examples: Plan: Ennead Architects RCP: Ennead Architects NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 37 2023 Plan: Ennead Architects RCP: Ennead Architects NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 38 2023  Material/Finish Diagrams Finish Diagrams shall be presented to NYU Langone during the design development phase. The purpose is to clearly identify the locations of the various materials and finishes in the project. The drawing can be a plan or axonometric. The diagram should be color coded and have a key identifying the different materials and finishes. The actual material samples shall be presented simultaneously. Below are acceptable examples: Ennead Architects NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 39 2023  Material/Finish Samples Actual samples of Materials/Finishes shall be presented to NYU Langone during the design development phase. The Architect shall provide sizes that are appropriate to both the scale and scope of the material in the project. For example, a large sample of the base color must be presented if it is being used in the majority of spaces. Samples such as wood and terrazzo shall be large enough to show the pattern, grain, color variation, etc. The materials should be keyed into the Finish Diagrams and/or Renderings. Below is an acceptable example: Ennead Architects NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PRESENTATION MATERIALS Real Estate Development and Facilities 40 2023  Perspective Renderings CAD Perspective renderings shall be presented to NYU Langone during the design phases. The quality level shall be sufficient for NYU Langone to understand the scale, material, color and lighting of the space. Single line or freehand perspectives are to be used sparingly and only as additional or supplemental information. Below are acceptable examples of such renderings: Ennead Architects Ennead Architects NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 41 2023 FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS The Architect shall submit to the RED+F Design Studio, a (1) Finish Booklet and a (2) Furniture Booklet using NYULH templates accessible on BuildFlow (the NYU Langone Health construction document management site). Each booklet shall be submitted in pdf format via BuildFlow at the end of Design Development, Construction Documents and as part of the project closeout. 1. Finish Booklet Items The Finish booklet shall have finish floor plan(s), RCP(s), room finish schedule, as well as all project finish information. The Finish Booklet shall include information on the proposed / installed materials, including product name and number, color, finish, size, manufacturer, contact information, room/location, and any other pertinent information. The booklet shall follow the Room Finish and Material Legend subsections of these Design Guidelines as described below:  Floors  Base  Walls  Doors  Ceilings  Millwork  Countertops  Window Sills/Convectors  Window Treatments/Curtains 2. Format for the Finish Booklet Below is the format to be used for the Finish Booklet. The first pages of the Finish Booklet shall contain finish floor plan(s), RCP(s), and room finish schedule(s) for the project. This should be followed by the Material and Finish data on 8½” x 11” as formatted below. FLOORS TERRAZZO TER 1 Manufacturer: Description: Thickness: Contact: KrisStone Thin set epoxy custom mix with zinc dividers, KLLC1211E 3/8” NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 42 2023 RESILIENT FLOORING: RESILIENT TILE RT 2 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Thickness: Nora Nora Environcare Lace Vine 2945 24” x 24” 2 mm thick BASE WALL BASE RB 1 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Johnsonite Tightlock Cove Base, Resilient Floors Pewter, 38 WALLS WALL TILE TILE 2 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Grout: Size: Contact: Nemo Tile Embarcadero Porcelain Mission Beige Laticrete Spectralock Pro, 23 Antique White 12” x 24” Nic Jennings njennings@nemotile.com/212 505 0009 WALL COVERING WC 01 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Contact: Carnegie Xorel Strie W, 6423W Color 136 Width: 52” NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 43 2023 WALL PROTECTION CG 4 Manufacturer: Product No.: Finish: Legs: Height: Corner: Construction Specialties, or approved CO 8 Stainless Steel 2 ½” Full height 90 degree corners Surface mounted HR 1 Manufacturer: Product No.: Finish: Construction Specialties, or approved P RWS Stainless Steel, Wood Handrail, stain to match WD 1 DOORS WOOD WD 1 Manufacturer: Product Color: Log No.: Dooge Veneers Inc. Anigre, Qtd Figured #77/30 FSC, stained to match architect’s sample CEILINGS ACOUSTICAL LAY IN CEILINGS ACT 1 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Armstrong Healthzone Ultima White As Noted NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 44 2023 3. Furniture Booklet Items The Furniture Booklet shall have tagged furniture plan(s), electrical plan(s), as well as all project furniture information. The Furniture Booklet shall include information on the proposed / installed furniture, including product name and number, color, finish, size, manufacturer, contact information, room/location, and any other pertinent information. The booklet shall follow the Furniture and Recycling Program subsections of these Design Guidelines as described below:  Casegoods  Work Stations  Tables  Seating  Storage  Accessories  Trash/Recycling Receptacles  Outdoor Furniture 4. Format for the Furniture Booklet Below is the format to be used for the Furniture Booklet. The first pages of the Furniture Booklet shall contain tagged furniture plan(s) and electrical plan(s) of the project. This should be followed by the Furniture and Finish data on 8½” x 11” as formatted below. WORKSTATIONS WORKSTATION Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: WS 1STEELCASE Universal Steelcase Established Textured Paint Fog 7236 (Metal) Steelcase Plain Jane Petosky 5F72 (Trackable) Reduced Pulls, Configuration Varies, See Plan Typical Administrative Offices NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 45 2023 TABLES CONFERENCE TABLE Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: T 4BERNHARDT Trace Table Oak 867 n/a 2nd Floor Conference Room CREDENZA Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: ST 2 BERNHARDT Shift Credenza Oak 867 Per NYU Standards 2nd Floor Conference Room SEATING TASK CHAIR Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Frame Color: Arm Cap: Options/Remarks: Weight Capacity: Casters: Upholstery (seat): Upholstery (back): Location: CH 5 STEELCASE Think 3D Knit Black Black n/a 400 lbs. carpet Mayer Durango Sapphire Steelcase 3D Knit Sailor Reception Desks, Admin Offices, MA Stations NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 46 2023 CONFERENCE CHAIR Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Frame Color: Arm Cap: Options/Remarks: Weight Capacity: Casters: Upholstery (seat): Upholstery (back): Location: CH 17 KEILHAUER Vanilla Chrome Frame None n/a 300 lbs. carpet Maharam Article Storm Luum Line Language, Pigment 2nd Floor Conference Room TRASH/RECYCLING RECEPTACLES FRONT OF HOUSE RECEPTACLES Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Internal Rigid Liner(s): Options: Location: TB 6 Nucraft Recycling Center Oak 867 By Manufacturer Per NYU Standards 2nd Floor Conference Room NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 47 2023 CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS The Space Planning and Management group of RED+F is responsible for space reporting, assessment and planning for NYU Langone Health. In order to fulfill its responsibilities, the group maintains a space inventory of all owned and leased properties, comprising floor plans and usage information. To assure project teams are working with the latest drawings, the A/E Team shall request electronic drawing files from the space inventory directly from the Space Planning and Management group. Keeping all floor plans and space information current is important to our operations. The RED+F PM and A/E Team involved in capital projects that impact the space inventory must provide appropriate documentation to the Space Planning and Management group in a timely manner. Drawings/Models shall be delivered to NYU Langone Health on the completion of each of the following phases: Schematic Design, Design Development, Construction Documents, and Construction Administration. Drawings showing as built conditions shall be delivered as part of the Close Out process upon construction completion. 1. Mode of Delivery All project files shall be delivered via BuildFlow, the NYU Langone Health construction document management site. 2. File Submission Requirements  Drawing Files (.dwg) Drawings shall be delivered in DWG format. Each drawing file shall contain the drawing sheet(s) in AutoCAD Space Mode. All X ref drawings shall be bound and inserted into the drawings. Files shall be uploaded individually into BuildFlow in DWG format. ZIP files will not be accepted. All 3D and BIM drawings shall be exported from BIM in the coarse view setting to