long-term goals, the full-tuition scholarship has empowered me to become the best version of myself. Elisa Warda '25 Student Inspire Progress with Us When the most difficult medical questions emerge, our dedicated researchers always rise to the occasion. Your contributions allow our investigators to keep making the trailblazing discoveries that make history and provide them with the resources they need to change lives. 1st medical school in the nation to award full-tuition scholarships to all MD degree candidates 7,600+ nurses who've earned Magnet Designation for nursing excellence year after year Your generosity makes an impact today and on the future of medicine. Make the Biggest Impact Flexible gifts support NYU Langone’s areas of greatest need. Give Now Direct Your Gift Making a gift to a cause you care about is a special way to support our work. Find a Fund Make It Monthly Join the dedicated group of donors who sustain our efforts. Give Monthly Alumni Giving Alumni support fosters tremendous progress at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and helps students access an outstanding medical education. How I Make an Impact Every Month As a monthly donor, I know NYU Langone can rely on my help so they can continue to conduct important and innovative research. Dana B. Monthly donor Planned Giving Your planned gift will drive innovation at NYU Langone for years to come. Matching Gifts Maximize your impact by asking your employer to match your gift. Search for Your Company We offer many ways for your company to get involved and give back as a team. Other Ways to Give There are many ways to donate to NYU Langone including stocks, gifts of cash or cash equivalents, donor advised funds, and more. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Cardio-Obstetrics Program are dedicated to supporting your heart health, from preconception to and through labor and delivery , the post-partum period, and beyond. We provide heart disease prevention, including screening for early heart disease, risk factor control, lifestyle counseling, and personalized cardiovascular care. Our specialists in obstetrics adult congenital heart disease cardiovascular disease prevention cardiology work together to create personalized care plans for people who plan to become pregnant or are already expecting. Our experts also collaborate to provide cardiovascular care after childbirth. Left unmanaged, cardiovascular disease can be life-threatening during pregnancy, putting both the pregnant person and baby at risk. Between 10 and 15 percent of pregnancies have at least one complication linked to the accelerated development of heart disease following pregnancy—our goal is to reduce the frequency and impact of these complications. We also recognize that people of color are especially vulnerable during and after pregnancy and provide them with a supportive care environment tailored to their needs. Our providers follow a nondiscrimination policy Preconception Cardiovascular and Obstetric Care We offer counseling to people who are concerned about their heart health and want to become pregnant. Before pregnancy, our maternal–fetal medicine specialists provide insight into your cardiovascular risks and their management during pregnancy and after childbirth. Our cardiologists offer a preconception cardiac evaluation that includes a transthoracic echocardiogram, which uses ultrasound to create images of the heart, and stress testing, which assesses how the heart works during physical activity, helps guide treatment plans. They also screen for conditions such as like high cholesterol, and Our goal is to prevent and proactively manage cardiovascular problems before you become pregnant. We create care plans that may include lifestyle modifications such as stress reduction, exercise, and eating a heart-healthy diet. Medications that are safe to use before and during pregnancy may also be part of your treatment plan. Around-the-Clock Cardiovascular Care During Pregnancy During pregnancy, our cardio-obstetric specialists provide a 24/7 clinical service of maternal–fetal medicine and adult congenital heart disease specialists to manage a full range of cardiovascular conditions during pregnancy. These include the following: heart valve conditions, including , or tricuspid valve disease hypertensive disorders such as high blood pressure or preeclampsia We work closely with other subspecialists at to deliver the highest-quality care for any cardiac condition that arises during pregnancy. Pregnant patients are seen promptly in our outpatient cardiac and high-risk obstetric clinics and followed closely throughout pregnancy and during and after childbirth. Cardiovascular Care After Childbirth If you have a pregnancy complicated by high blood pressure, preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, or spontaneous preterm labor , you are at increased risk for developing early heart disease, , or chronic high blood pressure. To ensure a smooth transition from obstetric care to long-term preventative care, our maternal–fetal medicine specialist may refer you to a . The program provides screening for early heart disease, risk factor control, lifestyle counseling, and personalized cardiovascular care for people at high risk after giving birth. Patients can be referred to the program three months after childbirth, when pregnancy-related hormonal changes in the body likely no longer affect factors such as cholesterol and high blood pressure. Patients can see our doctors over the short and long term to monitor and optimize cardiovascular health. They will also learn how to manage cardiovascular risk if they choose to become pregnant again. Our doctors are pioneers in the field of cardio-obstetrics. JB Justin S. Brandt Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialist Anais Hausvater Christina A. Penfield 6 Obstetrics and Gynecology Our obstetrician–gynecologists are committed to compassionate care throughout your pregnancy. Our program in the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease specializes in preventing cardiovascular disease in people after childbirth. Our specialists care for people who are pregnant or considering pregnancy and have congenital heart disease. Women’s Cardiology Program We may refer individuals who are pregnant to a cardiologist who specializes in heart care for women and others assigned female sex at birth. Cardiologists and maternal–fetal medicine specialists at NYU Langone Heart manage cardiovascular conditions that may arise before, during, or after pregnancy. Help create a lasting legacy for your loved one, and ensure that their memory makes a meaningful difference for patients worldwide. Ways to Remember Those You Love Create a Tribute Fundraising Page Give friends and family the chance to make a meaningful gift in honor of your loved one. Make a Donation in Their Memory Make a gift to advance research and patient care in celebration of your loved one. Donate Now A Legacy That Advances Medicine More than 25 years ago, my family and I established the Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research in loving memory of my husband, Steve. My husband's warmth and joie de vivre still inspire all who knew him. Ellen Banner How can I set up a fund in memory of a loved one? There are multiple ways you can set up a fund in memory of a loved one: Create a memorial fundraising page. The simplest way to ask your family and friends to donate in memory of a loved one is to setup an online fundraising page that you can share via email or social media. These pages can be customized with photos and personal stories of your loved one. Fundraise through social media. If you'd rather fundraise directly via or Instagram, simply search for NYU Langone Health in the dropdown menu and follow the prompts. Once your campaign is live, please notify us so that we can properly allocate your funds. Collect donations by check. Let friends and family know they can mail donations directly to us. Please ask that they put your loved one’s name in the memo line. Or you can collect the checks yourself and mail them to us. to have these checks added to your online fundraising page. Our address is: Office of Development 1 Park Avenue 5th Floor What if I wish to make an online donation in memory of my loved one but don’t wish to create a personalized fundraising page? Yes, you can make a gift in honor of your loved one Do you have suggested obituary language for requesting memorial gifts? In lieu of flowers, please send donations in memory of [NAME] to the NYU Langone Health Office of Development at 1 Park Avenue, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10016. Checks may be made out to “NYU Langone Health.” Please note in the memo line that your gift is in memory of [NAME]. Will I be notified of gifts made in memory of my loved one? Yes. For online gifts, you will receive an email notification whenever a gift is made to your fundraising page. For donations made by check, you will receive a report with a list of donations made in memory of your loved one. Please note that these notifications may take several weeks to arrive. Will donors be thanked for their memorial gift? Yes. For online gifts, donors will immediately receive an email confirmation, which can be also used as a tax receipt. For donations made by check, donors will receive their thank you and receipt by mail. Can I allocate funds to a specific area within NYU Langone? Yes, you may direct the funds you raise to a specific area whether you choose to use a fundraising page or ask that donations are sent by check. to learn more. Can donors to my fundraising page apply for corporate matching gifts? Yes, anyone who works for a company that participates in a corporate matching gift program can apply for a match if NYU Langone is an eligible organization. What is NYU Langone's tax ID number? NYU Langone Health's tax ID is 133971298. You can provide this tax-exempt number to businesses that make donations to your tribute and need to verify the tax status of NYU Langone. Family & Lifestyle Support for People with Inherited Arrhythmia After being diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia, people often wonder whether their family members are at risk. They may also be concerned about how arrhythmia might affect their everyday lives. The team at the is eager to help you and your family answer these questions. Genetic Testing for Families If you have been diagnosed with an inherited arrhythmia such as Brugada syndrome or long QT syndrome, we encourage your parents, siblings, and children to receive genetic screening and counseling. Early detection of an inherited arrhythmia can reduce a person’s risk of developing symptoms, which include heart palpitations, fainting, and heart attack. Diagnosing an inherited arrhythmia involves genetic testing, electrocardiogram (EKG), and surveillance monitoring with a device such as a Holter monitor. If there is a positive diagnosis, we devise a preventive care plan to help family members manage the condition. Living with Inherited Arrhythmia Our team, part of the , can can connect you with psychological and social work resources if you are experiencing stress or anxiety , which are common reactions to learning you have an inherited arrhythmia. Our doctors can also provide guidance and care while you receive other medical treatment. For example, if you are on blood thinner medications to treat your arrhythmia, your doctor may need to adjust your dose before surgery, dental care, or childbirth. Please talk with your electrophysiologist before undergoing any elective medical procedure. We also provide guidance for people who play competitive sports or are in high-stress careers, such as firefighting or police work, to determine ways you can continue to participate while maintaining your heart health. Maternal–Fetal Medicine Services Leader in Mother–Baby Care NYU Langone has received certification from The Joint Commission for our excellence in advanced perinatal care. Regional Perinatal Center We meet the highest standards for obstetric and infant care as defined by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Advanced Fetal Imaging Our imaging experts can detect certain congenital defects as early as 11 weeks of pregnancy. NYU Langone’s maternal–fetal medicine specialists provide women experiencing high-risk pregnancies with expert care before and during Our board-certified maternal–fetal medicine specialists are nationally recognized experts who regularly publish original research in top medical journals. They work closely with neonatologists, geneticists, pediatric cardiologists, rheumatologists, fertility experts, and other specialists to manage your high-risk pregnancy. Diagnostic Testing and Fetal Treatment For New and Expecting Parents We provide the information, resources, and guidance you need to confidently navigate this exciting time in your life. Learn About Our Programs Our team provides preconception consultations for women who have a history of difficult pregnancies. We provide genetic and diagnostic testing for birth defects and fetal abnormalities , including chorionic villus sampling, nuchal translucency, umbilical cord blood sampling, and first trimester ultrasound testing. Working with our Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program , we also provide expertise in fetal therapeutic procedures. This includes blood transfusions for babies in the womb affected by anemia, and fetoscopic laser photocoagulation, a minimally invasive procedure used to stop blood transfer between fetuses with twin–twin transfusion syndrome. Dr. Wendy L. Kinzler is a maternal–fetal medicine specialist at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Care for the Expectant Mother We care for women who are age 35 and older, who are pregnant with multiples, have experienced , or who have a history of recurrent miscarriage . We provide specialized care for  women who have medical conditions that make their pregnancies high risk, such as autoimmune diseases, cardiac disorders, gestational diabetes, gastrointestinal disorders, and preeclampsia, and people who need extra monitoring, including people who have received an organ transplant and those with . NYU Langone is accredited by the Adult Congenital Heart Association as an Adult Congenital Heart Disease Comprehensive Care Center. Residency and Fellowships Our specialists are leaders in preparing the next generation of doctors entering the field of maternal–fetal medicine. View Education Opportunities Advanced fetal imaging is provided throughout your pregnancy to monitor your baby’s growth and development. We provide the full scope of ultrasound services, including three- and four-dimensional ultrasound testing. Imaging can help in the diagnosis of , abdominal wall defects, chromosomal abnormalities such as Down syndrome, and open neural tube defects including Our maternal-fetal medicine specialists, including Dr. Shilpi S. Mehta-Lee, use advanced fetal imaging to monitor your baby's growth and development. We also offer first-trimester ultrasound testing and fetal echocardiography starting at as early as 11 weeks gestation. Early imaging may be recommended if your baby is at higher risk for congenital defects due to family history or if prenatal screening tests such as nuchal translucency indicate a risk. Early detection can help parents make important choices about the pregnancy and their baby’s care after birth. If a heart defect is suspected, consultations with imaging experts from Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone’s are available via a secure video consultation from one of our maternal–fetal medicine locations. Early morning and evening appointments are available at some of our locations. Our Affiliated Programs and Centers Fertility Center We provide preimplantation genetic screening and diagnosis that can help increase the chance of a healthy pregnancy. Learn More About the Fertility Center We provide medical care to babies in the womb. Learn More About the Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment Program Clinical Genetic Services We provide thorough testing to accurately diagnose genetic conditions. Learn More About Clinical Genetic Services Advanced Care for Newborns Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Neonatal Intensive Care Unit at Tisch Hospital Our Pediatric Specialists Fink Children’s Ambulatory Care Center Pediatric General Surgery Pediatric Neurosurgery Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Services Pediatric Rehabilitation Services Specialized Adult Care Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Obstetrics & Gynecology Associates 159 East 53rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY, 10022 646-754-2700 NYU Langone Brooklyn Maternal Fetal Medicine Associates 718-630-8555 718-630-8576 Ultrasound Unit—OB/GYN 530 First Avenue, Suite 10Q, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-7021 212-263-8610 646-754-2446 What Is a Midwife? Innovative Cardiac Care Saves Newborn’s Life NICU Team Provides Lifesaving Care for 1-Pound Newborn New Vice Chair for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Named Baby Survives CHAOS After High-Risk, Complex Procedure At-Birth Surgery Saves Baby with Rare Disorder How Doctors Cured a Newborn’s Lethal Pair of Cardiac Defects COVID-19 Vaccines During Pregnancy Give Protection to Babies Podcast: Fetal Surgeon Saves Unborn Twins with Rare Illness COVID-19 Vaccination in Pregnancy Passes Antibodies to Baby Doctors at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center use the latest advances to perform robotic-assisted surgery on the kidneys and urinary tract in people who have benign or cancerous conditions. Conditions We Manage with Robotic Surgery We treat people who have certain types of cancer, including kidney cancer prostate cancer bladder cancer , ureteral cancer, and adrenal cancer —in collaboration with experts at Experts at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center also manage benign conditions. These include the following: benign kidney tumors bladder diverticula Conn’s syndrome Cushing syndrome cystocele, or bladder prolapse enterocele, or prolapse of the vagina and intestines after hysterectomy functional adrenal adenoma pelvic organ prolapse , including uterine prolapse renal cyst retroperitoneal fibrosis ureteral stricture ureteropelvic junction obstruction urinary tract reconstruction following cancer surgery Our surgeons have pioneered many of the robotic surgical techniques used to manage these conditions, and we have some of the best outcomes in the world. Our research has been commended by the World Congress of Endourology. Our surgeons have been performing robotic procedures to treat women with urinary incontinence and uterine prolapse for close to a decade, and we’ve taught these techniques to doctors around the world. We perform robotic pelvic organ prolapse repair , a procedure that allows for greater surgical visibility through magnification, which results in more precise movements than with conventional surgical techniques. NYU Langone’s robotic surgery program has one of the largest number of published articles in robotic pyeloplasty and urinary reconstruction procedures in the world. These treatments involve removing a blockage of the ureteropelvic junction—which is where the kidney meets the ureter, a tube that connects the bladder and kidneys—and using robotic surgery to manage ureteral reconstruction. Among the strategies we have developed is the use of tissue from inside a patient’s mouth to rebuild the ureter. We have also developed enhanced imaging techniques using near-infrared fluorescence, known as NIRF, to confirm blood flow to the tissue. Our doctors were the first to perform a robotic-assisted ureterolysis, in which the ureter is freed from surrounding fibrous tissue, and a ureterocalicostomy, which is used rarely to treat people with a refractory proximal ureteral stricture or a ureteropelvic junction obstruction. Leaders in Robotic Surgery Education In addition to caring for patients and performing research, experts at the Robotic Surgery Center are also committed to training robotic surgeons in new techniques. Each year, more than 100 surgeons come to NYU Langone to observe our advanced robotic urologic techniques. The Robotic Surgery Center hosts an annual course in robotic surgery across various disciplines. More than 400 attendees from all over the country as well as 11 countries attend the conference each year. our research and educational programs Robotic surgery for kidney and urinary conditions is performed by the following doctors: Benjamin M. Brucker, MD James F. Borin, MD Frederick A. Gulmi, MD William C. Huang, MD Nirit Rosenblum, MD Samir Taneja, MD James S. Wysock, MD Lee C. Zhao, MD To make an appointment or learn more about our services, call 877-ROBO-NYU ( 877-762-6698 At NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center, our specially trained, highly experienced surgeons are at the forefront of robotic surgery for both benign and cancerous gastrointestinal and digestive diseases. Minimally invasive surgery has long been a cornerstone in the treatment of people who have gastrointestinal diseases and disorders. For certain people, a minimally invasive approach decreases recovery time, so you can move on to the next phase of your care as quickly as possible. Our gastrointestinal surgical oncologists and colorectal surgeons were among the first in the United States to use robotic techniques in the treatment of gastrointestinal cancers. We work with experts at NYU Langone’s to manage many types of cancer, including bile duct cancer, colorectal cancer esophageal cancer pancreatic cancer , primary peritoneal cancer, and stomach cancer . Other tumors that can be removed with robotic-assisted surgery include tumors of the adrenal gland , spleen, small intestine , and retroperitoneum. Robotic surgery can also be used to manage benign conditions, including the following: achalasia acid reflux, which is also called gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD Crohn’s disease diverticulitis esophageal diverticulum fistulas between the colon and bladder fistulas between the rectum and urethra fistulas between the rectum and vagina hiatal hernia rectal prolapse ulcerative colitis Robotic surgery to manage digestive and gastrointestinal conditions is performed by the following doctors: Mitchell A. Bernstein, MD Brian P. Harlin, MD Jamie Levine, MD Josef Shehebar, MD ). Learn more about The gynecologic robotic surgery team at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center offers procedures for a wide range of conditions, including advanced endometriosis uterine fibroids pelvic pain , and heavy bleeding, as well as cancer-staging procedures. The robotic platform has enabled us to perform various complex procedures, including the removal of large fibroid tumors through tiny incisions. This allows for much speedier recovery, significantly less pain and bleeding, and quicker return to normal activities. We use one of the world’s most experienced advanced MRI imaging programs to maximize outcomes during robotic-assisted treatment of endometriosis. Our goal is to manage the condition and alleviate the pain and suffering of our patients while preserving fertility. In addition, our sophisticated technology allows us to perform “single site” robotic-assisted gynecologic procedures for certain women. This means surgery can be performed through a single incision in the navel that leaves a nearly invisible, hidden scar. Our gynecology robotic surgery team routinely ranks among the highest volume centers in the country. Physicians from around the nation and world travel here to observe our surgeons use the most-advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to managing complicated gynecologic conditions including uterine fibroids, endometriosis and gynecologic cancer. Our surgeons collaborate with experts at NYU Langone’s for people who require further cancer treatment after surgery. The gynecologic conditions for which we offer robotic surgery include the following: adenomyosis cancer risk reduction for women at high risk of developing ovarian cancer endometrial cancer chronic pelvic pain endometriosis, through NYU Langone’s Endometriosis Center hysterectomy hysterectomy for rectocele robotic adnexal procedures robotic myomectomy sacrocolpopexy sacrohysteropexy supracervical hysterectomy uterine bleeding uterine prolapse vaginal prolapse after hysterectomy Robotic surgery for female reproductive and sexual health conditions is performed by the following doctors: Robert Berg, MD Leslie R. Boyd, MD Kathy Huang, MD Linda M. Nicoll, MD Bhavana Pothuri, MD Elizabeth Poynor, MD, PhD Ruth Tessler, MD Preparing for Your Catheterization Procedure Interventional cardiologists at NYU Langone’s perform a variety of catheter-based diagnostic and therapeutic treatments, including coronary artery stenting Our doctors use imaging results from an angiogram to diagnose blockages in the heart as well as in the legs and neck. Cardiac catheterization takes place at the . An angiogram, which uses X-ray images to look for blocked blood vessels, is the most common procedure we perform. We use the imaging results from the angiogram to diagnose blockages in the heart as well as in the legs and neck. If a blockage is found, your doctor might use a stent to open up your artery. Stenting is a catheter-based treatment. Our specialists guide a long, hollow tube called a catheter through an artery or vein to the procedure site. The location of the incision depends on the type of procedure you are having. In most cases, you are awake for the procedure and can go home the same day. Here is what you need to know before, during, and after the procedure. Preparing for the Catheterization Procedure Expect a phone call the day before the procedure from a physician assistant or nurse practitioner telling you what to expect the day of your visit, including what time to arrive. Someone must be available to take you home after the procedure, so please arrange for a family member or friend to pick you up. Learn more about our visitor policies and who can accompany you for the procedure. Talk with your doctor about whether you should take your medications in the morning, especially if you are taking blood thinners or anticlotting medicines or if you have . Otherwise, do not eat or drink anything in the morning unless your doctor or nurse tells you to do so. Please bring the following items with you: all medications in their bottles or a list of all medications with dosages insurance card(s) photo identification such as a driver’s license or state identification card It is best to leave all valuables, including money and jewelry, at home. Please tell the admitting nurse if you have , any allergies to medications, or an allergy to or have had a reaction to intravenous (IV) dye. During the Catheterization Procedure When you arrive in the catheterization lab, the nurse may perform a blood test or take you for a chest X-ray. Your doctor places an IV line to deliver any necessary medicine during the procedure. A mild anesthetic is used on the site where the catheter is to be inserted. The procedure should be pain-free. After the Catheterization Procedure After the procedure, you stay in our recovery area for two to eight hours before being discharged. Your doctor bandages the incision site, and you are asked to rest and lie still until a member of your medical team says you are ready to leave. We encourage you to bring reading materials or other activities to keep you busy while you wait. Most people go home the same day, but some procedures require that you be monitored in the hospital overnight. When you are ready to leave, you are given instructions about your medication. This may include new prescriptions that your doctor has given you. You are advised not to lift heavy objects or participate in strenuous activity for two weeks. You can shower the day after the procedure, but please wait one week before taking a bath. You are also told when to follow up with your doctor. Diagnosis & Treatment for Blocked Arteries Our interventional cardiologists use evidence-based diagnostic procedures and techniques to assess blood circulation and look for narrowed or blocked vessels. Depending on the results of these tests and scans, your doctor may recommend an interventional procedure or other therapies to open these blocked arteries and restore normal blood flow. Diagnostic Procedures to Detect Blocked Arteries During cardiac catheterization, our specialists use special tools to look for blocked arteries and, when necessary, perform procedures to restore healthy blood flow. Coronary Angiogram Coronary angiography, also known as a , is a diagnostic test to look for blocked arteries or structural problems in the heart, such as valve disease. This is often done in response to symptoms such as chest pain or abnormal stress test results. During an angiogram, your doctor uses a catheter to introduce a dye into the bloodstream. An X-ray machine detects the dye and creates a series of images that allow your doctor to look for blockages or other abnormalities. Doctors may also perform an angiogram to identify narrowed or blocked arteries in the leg, leading to lower extremity peripheral artery disease, also known as lower extremity arterial disease Other Diagnostic Tests to Detect Heart Disease Doctors in our cardiac catheterization laboratory may also use the following diagnostic tests to detect other forms of heart disease: Right heart catheterization can diagnose high blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries using a catheter passed through an artery on the right side of the heart. Hemodynamic assessment is a procedure that checks blood flow and heart function and helps diagnose valvular heart disease, congestive heart failure, and , also known as a cardiac shunt. Physiological testing uses specialized wires to measure blood pressure and blood flow across a blockage which can help determine if it needs to be treated. Intravascular imaging, including intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography, allows interventional cardiologists to look for narrowing or blockages of blood vessels and the extent of blockage, which can also help prepare for coronary artery stenting. As soon as a diagnosis is made, our doctors discuss treatment options with you and begin the interventional procedure. Interventional Procedures to Open Blocked Arteries Our interventional cardiology team performs all procedures and techniques to open blocked arteries. We are also known for providing effective therapy for people with complex and complete blockages, including chronic total occlusion (CTO), and those who have been told they are not candidates for treatment at other catheterization laboratories. Coronary artery stenting is a technique used to treat blocked arteries. During the stenting procedure, also known as percutaneous coronary intervention , a tiny incision is made in the wrist or groin, and then a thin catheter is inserted through the incision into the artery.  A balloon catheter is inflated at the location of the blockage, opening the artery and allowing blood to flow normally. This is followed by placement of a stent, which is a medicated, scaffold-like mesh tube that reduces the risk of the blockage recurring. Coronary stenting is also done in emergency situations such as a heart attack. Complex Coronary Interventions Our interventional cardiologists provide treatment for the most complex, high-risk blockages. This includes chronic total occlusion, or CTO, when arteries have been completely blocked for three months or longer, and complex coronary artery disease, meaning heart disease in people who have complex cases or high-risk factors. We use the most-advanced tools and technology to treat challenging blockages, including atherectomy, which uses a small tool to cut through blockages; excimer laser coronary angioplasty, which uses laser mechanisms to break up plaque; and intravascular lithotripsy, which uses shock waves to treat the most-resistant blockages. is a catheter-based treatment for thinning the muscular wall between the heart’s left and right ventricles. This can help improve blood flow from the heart in people with , a condition that causes thickening of the walls of the heart’s main pumping chamber. Peripheral Angioplasty, Atherectomy, and Stenting Our doctors also use catheterization techniques to look for blockages in the peripheral arteries. These blood vessels provide blood flow outside the heart, such as in the legs, intestines, kidney, and neck. The peripheral arteries bring blood to internal organs and extremities. When their blood flow is restricted, the loss of circulation causes pain, sores, and, in some cases, life-threatening conditions. To treat these blockages, our doctors may use techniques such as peripheral angioplasty, where the arteries are stretched with an inflated balloon and a stent may be placed to keep the artery open. Atherectomy, which uses a small rotational tool, is another technique that may be used to remove calcified blockages that are difficult to remove using angioplasty. These techniques are used to treat chronic caused by kidney blockages; erectile dysfunction caused by limited arterial blood flow; carotid artery disease that increases the risk of , which limits circulation in the legs and increases the risk of gangrene, when tissue dies due to lack of oxygen and blood flow. Structural Heart Procedures Doctors in our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory also perform structural heart procedures in partnership with cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s in Manhattan and on . We use catheterization techniques for aortic valve replacement mitral valve repair and replacement , in which our doctors guide a new valve through a catheter to the heart without requiring open surgery. We offer patients 6 months and older the COVID-19 vaccine, including updated boosters. Vaccine Information for Patients NYU Langone offers the COVID-19 vaccine to our patients age 6 months and older. To learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and vaccine safety, read our COVID-19 vaccine information for patients Important Vaccine Information and Considerations We ask that you first contact your doctor before making a vaccination appointment if any of these categories apply to you: You had a severe allergic reaction to a vaccine in the past. You have a condition that affects your immune system. You are getting radiation therapy or chemotherapy. If you recently had COVID-19, we recommend waiting to receive your next vaccine dose—primary or booster—by about 3 months from when your symptoms started, or if you had no symptoms, when you first received a positive test. This allows your immune system time to recover and fully respond to the vaccine. Please do not schedule a vaccination or come to NYU Langone to be vaccinated if any of the following statements apply to you: You are currently feeling sick. You have an active COVID-19 infection. The CDC provides detailed information about the COVID-19 vaccine . NYU Langone also provides If you have specific questions about the vaccine related to your health, please contact your NYU Langone doctor. Discovery May Help Gauge Efficacy of Future Cancer Vaccines People with Lupus Benefit from COVID-19 Vaccine Booster First COVID-19 Vaccine Volunteer Reflects on Her Experience What to Know About COVID-19 Vaccines for Kids Under 12 COVID-19 Vaccine & Pregnancy: What You Need to Know COVID-19 Vaccines Cannot Affect Fertility or Sexual Function Patients with Lupus Respond Less Well to COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19: What We’re Doing to Help You Stay Safe Cancer Center Director Discusses COVID-19 Vaccines & Cancer Vaccines Mandates in Schools Have Been Used Since 1850 Ear, nose, and throat specialists at NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center offer robotic treatment of conditions that affect the head and neck. Robotic surgical procedures for benign and malignant head and neck conditions are performed through the mouth. This approach allows doctors to make smaller incisions that are better visualized, more precise, and may heal more quickly and with less pain. This technique also is less likely than open surgery, which is performed through the neck, to affect speech, swallowing, sense of taste, and breathing. Most patients are able to resume eating solid foods immediately after surgery, and most procedures do not require a hospital stay. Robotic surgery is best suited for people who have early head and neck cancer , in which small, visible tumors and lesions are found on the tonsils, base of the tongue, or supraglottic larynx. Robotic techniques are also useful in discovering otherwise invisible malignancies. Doctors can perform surgery on these same areas—the tonsils, base of the tongue, and supraglottic larynx—to correct benign conditions that contribute to snoring and sleep disordered breathing. A robotic approach can also be used when doctors perform epiglottidectomy, simple or extended tonsillectomy, and pharyngectomy. Robotic head and neck surgery is performed by the following experts: Adam Jacobson, MD Michael J. Persky, MD NYU Langone’s Robotic Surgery Center is one of the few sites in the United States that offers robotic thoracic surgery. Physicians from around the nation travel here to observe our surgeons use the newest and most-advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to managing complicated airway, breathing, and lung conditions. Conditions we treat include: bronchogenic cysts esophageal duplication cysts lung nodules mediastinal cysts non-small cell lung cancer small cell lung cancer thymus cysts Our robotic lung surgery program has grown from our surgeons’ pioneering work with the minimally invasive thoracic surgical technique known as VATS, or video-assisted thoracic surgery, for lung cancer. In addition, we perform robotic biopsies of suspicious lung nodules to assess whether they are benign or cancerous. Robotic surgery for airway, breathing, and lung conditions is performed by the following doctors: Robert Cerfolio, MD Stephanie H. Chang, MD Travis C. Geraci, MD Amie J. Kent, MD Michael Zervos, MD NYU Langone bariatric surgeons use the most advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to treat people with . Our team has expertise in the following bariatric procedures: sleeve gastrectomy gastric bypass surgery revision surgery Our Team of Robotic Surgery Specialists The following NYU Langone surgeons use robotic surgery techniques to treat obesity. Alexandra L. Argiroff, MD Collin E. Brathwaite, MD Fareed Cheema, MD Gloria B. Chu, MD George S. Ferzli, MD Megan Jenkins,