is superfluous. If cost effective homevisits are to be sustained after the first year,more emphasis must be placed onreinforcement of first year gains and onexpanding the scope of nutrition education toinclude other kinds of health education.7 tables, 9 references. (HE9700312)073Randomized Clinical Trial of HomeIntervention for Children With Failure toThrive.Form:Journal article.Authors:Black, M.M.; Dubowitz, H.;Hutcheson, J.; Berenson Howard, J.; Starr, R.H.Source:Pediatrics.95(6):807 814, June 1995.Abstract: The authors conducted a randomizedclinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a home based intervention on the growth anddevelopment of children with nonorganicfailure to thrive. The sample included 130children recruited from urban pediatric primarycare clinics serving low income families.Eighty nine percent of the families completedthe study. All of the children were youngerthan age 25 months, with weight for age belowthe fifth percentile. The authors randomized thechildren into two groups: clinic plus homeintervention, or clinic only. The childrenreceived services at a multidisciplinary growthand nutrition clinic. The group that had clinicplus home intervention also received weeklyhome visits for1 year. Three trained, lay homevisitors conducted the home intervention,supervised by a community health nurse. Layhome visitors were selected for their experiencewith children and families, their interpersonalskills, their knowledge of the community, andtheir commitment. The lay visitors completed atraining program that covered (1) children'shealth and nutrition, (2) infant and toddlerdevelopment, (3) activities to promotechildren's development, (4) parent childinteraction, (5) behavior management, (6)relationship building, (7) family relationships,(8) child and family advocacy, (9) problemsolving, and (10) community resources andservices. The lay visitors provided maternalsupport and promoted parenting, childdevelopment, use of informal and formalresources, and parental advocacy. A nurseweighed and measured all of the children in thesample to assess wasting and stunting. Theauthors measured language development, alongwith cognitive and motor development, atrecruitment and at the 12 month follow up.They also measured parent child interaction byobserving mothers and children during feedingat recruitment and at the 12 month follow up,and measured the quality of the homeenvironment by the Home Observation Measureof the Environment1 8 months afterrecruitment. Analysis showed significantimprovement in weight for age, weight forheight, and height for age during the studyperiod, regardless of the intervention status.The authors concluded that home interventionby lay home visitors had a beneficial effect oninfant cognitive and receptive languagedevelopment and on the quality of the homeenvironment. They also concluded that thehome intervention might have been enhancedby including more specific activities targeted tothe developmental needs of toddlers, along withlinks to other health and social service47The Community Health Advisor/Workerprograms. 3 tables, 70 references.(HE9600947)074Three Years Later: An Evaluation ofVolunteer Training.Form:Journal article.Author:Pearse, D.T.Source:Gerontologist.6(3): 154 158,September 1966.Abstract: The author describes an evaluationof the Sargent House Project of the EpiscopalDiocese of Washington (District of Columbia),which was conducted from 1959 though 1962as a demonstration project to train volunteers towork with the elderly. Six training courses of 10hours each were given. Training includedcourse instruction and on the job supervision.A major purpose of the project was to stimulatethe trained volunteers in developing programsfor the aged in various locations throughout themetropolitan area. After the foundingdemonstration grant ran out, the project endedin June 1962. To evaluate the results of thetraining 3 years after the project ended,investigators sent questionnaires to the 15continuing volunteers; 13 completed thequestionnaire. Fourteen of the original 46trained volunteers continued to provide servicesto a group of senior citizens in seven locationson a regular, continuing basis. Lack of anyeffective recruitment measures for bothvolunteer leaders and new participants, lack offunds, and the isolation of the groups from thehost facility hindered the program's possiblefuture progress.2 references. (HE9700349)48Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs075Activating Ideas: Promoting PhysicalActivity Among Older Adults. A Guide forProgram Planners and Volunteer Leaders.Form: Manual.Author:DiGilio, D.A.Source: Washington, DC, AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons, 65 p., 1994.Abstract: This manual was designed for olderadult volunteers and program planners whowant to develop and promote exercise programsfor older adults. The manual suggests strategiesto encourage older adults to exercise regularly.Part1, Physical Activity and Older Adults,includes (1) The Problem, (2) The Definition,(3) The Benefits, and (4) Beyond Benefits toBehavior. The second part, Program Strategiesfor Breaking Down Barriers, offers (1) LineDancing Delivers, (2) Walking Works Wonders,(3) No Pain and A Lot to Gain Exercise, (4)Physician Prescriptions, (5) Self SupportingPrograms Survive, (6) Promote Peer LedPrograms, (7) Personalized Programs, (8) Bias Buster Media Events, and (9) Bridging theGeneration Gap.Part 3, A Variety of ActivatingIdeas, comprises (1) Down With Dropouts, (2)Marketing Tips, (3) Reaching the At Risk, (4)Networking in a Nutshell, (5) Networking at theLocal Level, and (6) Networking at the State/National Level. The fourth and final part,Resources, includes (1) Exercise Regimens andActivities, (2) Program Design andManagement, (3) Journal Articles forProfessionals, (4) Health Education Materialsfor Older Adults, (5) Marketing, and (6)Funding. (HE9601252)076Establishing Community Health Centers inRural Appalachia Utilizing Lay Volunteers.Form: Newsletter article.Author:Morris, F.J.Source: Human Services in the RuralEnvironment.3(1): 1 4, January 1978.Abstract: This article describes theestablishment of 10 Community Health Centersin the homes of volunteers in communitiesthroughout Harlan County, Kentucky, by theSoutheast Community College AppalachianLeadership Community Outreach (ALCOR).ALCOR is a nonprofit, privately fundedcorporation working through six easternKentucky colleges to serve the residents of ruralAppalachia. The Community Health Centerswere established in response to the need ofconsumers in rural areas for health care in thecommunity and as a way to provide continuoushealth care. At each of the 10 sites, ALCORstudents trained a reliable and respectedvolunteer in basic first aid pressuremeasurements. The volunteers were providedwith a stethoscope, pressure cuff, and bookletson blood pressure to distribute to communityresidents. Each center received a set ofbathroom scales and a first aid kit containing asnake bite kit and a thermometer. Thevolunteers' homes became the location ofvarious community health education programs.ALCOR students presented programs on thewarning signs of cancer, breast self examination using silicone breast forms withactual lumps, nutrition, dental hygiene, andcoronary care.Screening tests for anemia,diabetes, sickle cell anemia, cholesterol,parasites, vision, hearing, and blood group andRh, were available to community members atno charge. All positive findings were referredfor follow up care. (HE9700734)49Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs077Evaluation of Modeling Role Playing andLecture Discussion Training Techniquesfor College Student Mental HealthParaprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Authors: Teevan, K.G.; Gabel, H.Source:Journal of Counseling Psychology.25(2):169 171, 1978.Abstract: Researchers evaluated the relativeeffectiveness of modeling and role playing andlecture discussion training techniques for 45college students who worked as mental healthparaprofessionals. The college students thatparticipated in the study were primarily female,were between1 8 and 24 years old, and had noprevious counseling training or experience.Participants were divided equally among threegroups:(1) the lecture discussion group,(2) the modeling and role playing group, and(3) a control group. Both the lecture discussiongroup and the modeling/role playing groupreceived 9 hours of training within a 2 dayperiod and then completed assessmentmeasures. The control group completed theassessment measures first and then received 9hours of training. Training for both treatmentgroups focused on the initial skills andinformation necessary for a paraprofessionalcrisis call counselor and included (1) crisistheory, (2) listening skills, (3) values incounseling, (4) drug counseling, and (5) suicideprevention techniques. Assessment measuresincluded a written questionnaire and a small group role play. Counselor statements wererated and mean empathy level was calculatedfor each participant.Initial statistical analysesindicated that there were no significantdifferences between groups, suggesting initialequivalence of the groups. However, results ofthe counselor statement ratings and meanempathy levels showed that the modeling androle playing group chose the highest number ofappropriate responses and achieved higherratings on empathy level and counseling skills.These results are consistent with earlierresearch that supports the idea that training doesin fact lead to improved paraprofessionalperformance. Evidence shows that trainingtechniques that incorporate modeling and role playing are superior to lecture discussionmethods. The results can likely be applied toother training programs that share a goal ofinterest in development of rudimentarycounseling skills in a relatively brief trainingperiod.1 table, 15 references. (HE9700615)078Increasing Participation in HealthPromotion Among Older African Americans.Form:Journal article.Author: Williams, M.P.Source: American Journal of Health Behavior.20(6):389 399, November December 1996.Abstract: The authors developed andimplemented a health promotion programdesigned to reach older African Americans withhealth messages that could increase theirawareness of the risk factors for disablingillness and increase their participation in healthpromotion activities. The authors targeted twoGeorgia areas with large, older, blackpopulations. The authors conducted a needsassessment and developed the program intothree major components:(1) a culturallysensitive health promotion training programdesigned to increase participation in outreachactivities, (2) the use of the grassroots networkto disseminate health education materials, and(3) the use of indigenous older adults as layeducators and health advocates. Programdevelopers divided the content of the trainingcurriculum into three general categories:(1)50Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programschronic disease education and self care, (2)lifestyle education, and (3) consumer education.Category topics were developed into 12 trainingmodules packaged in an instructor's guide. Asecond guide was developed for thoseparticipants who were trained as lay educators.The authors reviewed health promotion andeducation materials and conducted a pilot test todetermine which guide the target populationwas most likely to use.Researchers recruitedand trained members of the target population aslay health educators to promote the healtheducation program. The health promotiontraining program was open to anyone over theage of 55 living in a target community.Program staff conducted a 12 week trainingprogram for each of the partnershiporganizations and evaluated the program usinga brief registration form that was completed byeach attendee. The program exceeded initialexpectations, both in the extent and enthusiasmof response and in the program's ability todeliver an education program to a populationpreviously considered hard to reach.1 figure,3 tables, 27 references. (HE9700462)079Neighbor to Neighbor: Community HealthWorkers Educate Their Own.presentations a year in which they taught localwomen about birth control, disease prevention,and the importance of regular breastexaminations, mammographies, andPapanicolaou smears. Training from 20 to 120hours was provided, depending on the program.CHW's were responsible for motivating andempowering community members to identifytheir own needs and implement their ownsolutions through advocacy, outreach, healthand promotion, disease prevention, andprofessionally supervised direct care. Elementsof a successful CHW program includedestablished rapport with the community,assessment of community health needs at theproject onset, multilingual and multiculturalstaff, shared ownership and decision making,flexibility, and linkages to a referral system.(HE9700077)080Using Paraprofessionals in the ArkansasHealth Education Programs.Form:Journal article.Authors: Fox, E.L.; Lammers, J.W.;Deere, R.E.Source:Health Education.9(2): 12 13, March April 1978.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(20):52 54, 56, October 20, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describes theefforts of community health workers (CHW's),who were serving as health promoters amongresidents in their respective communities thathave traditionally lacked access to adequatehealth care. Sponsored by Planned Parenthood,the Promotoras Communitarias program wasone of many being established across thecountry. Promotoras hosted at least six in homeAbstract:Reseachers studied the use ofindigenous homemakers as community healtheducation aides. The 120 hour aide trainingprogram focused on specific diseases, basic firstaid, and basic home sanitation. Aides alsoreceived instruction in referring clients toappropriate resources in the local healthdelivery system. The aide taught thehomemaker one preprepared mini lesson on(1)the effects of living habits on health; (2) the useof preventive health practices; (3) when topractice self care as opposed to resorting toprofessional care; (4) the effects of a cleanhome environment on health; and (5)51Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programsunderstanding of the local health care deliverycommunity self reliance. 4 figures,system. Program assessment, as measured by a16 references. (HE9 100636)participant a family review form, showedsignificant improvement in all categories ofhealth knowledge and maintenance behavior,except dental care and weight loss.(HE7900635)081Women's Health Perspective in PrimaryHealth Care: A Nursing and CommunityHealth Worker Demonstration Project inUrban America.Form:Journal article.Authors: Swider, S.M.; McElmurry, BJ.Source: Family and Community Health.13(3):1 17, November 1990.Abstract: The Primary Health Care in UrbanCommunities demonstration project trainedcommunity residents as community healthworkers to work in two low incomecommunities in Chicago, Illinois. Onecommunity was primarily black, with a largeconcentration of families in poverty, living inpublic housing, and with female single heads ofhousehold; the other was a low income,multiethnic community in which most residentswere Hispanic, primarily Mexican American.The PHCUC project, developed by theWomen's Health Group at the College ofNursing, University of Illinois at Chicago(UIC), aimed to implement the primary healthstrategy in two neighborhoods by training localwomen as community health workers in thesecommunities. The perspective at UIC onwomen's health focused on learning aboutmultiple aspects of women's life experiences:historical, political, cultural, developmental,and socioeconomic. The project worked withwomen in the community to help them addresscommunity health concerns; the emphasis wason collaboration, essential health services, and52Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsAsthma082Targeting High Risk Groups:Neighborhood Organization for PediatricAsthma Management in the NeighborhoodAsthma Coalition.Form:Journal article.Authors:Fisher, E.B.; Sussman, L.K.;Arfken, C; Harrison, D.; Munro, J.;Sykes, R.K.; Sylvia, S.; Strunk, R.C.Source:Chest.106(4, Supplement):248S 259S, October 1994.Abstract:The Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition offered a community organizationapproach to promoting basic understanding ofasthma and encouraging improved care in fourlow income, predominantly African American,neighborhoods of St. Louis, Missouri. TheNeighborhood Asthma Coalition emphasizedneighborhood and community organizationstrategies and social support to reach asthmaticchildren, their parents or caretakers, and otherfamily and friends. The Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition activities included (1) promotionalcampaigns to increase awareness of asthma andits care and to recruit participants into coalitionprograms; (2) neighborhood residents trained asCASS (changing asthma through socialsupport) workers to work with asthmaticchildren and their caregivers to encourageasthma management and to conductmanagement programs in local institutions; (3)a neighborhood summer day camp and year round neighborhood asthma activities forasthmatic children, their families, and friends;(4) an asthma management curriculum offeredthrough the camp and neighborhood activities,and through community health centers andchurches; and (5) plans for activities inneighborhood schools. The NeighborhoodAsthma Coalition operated in the targetneighborhoods also served by Grace HillNeighborhood Services, an affiliation of eightsettlement houses, a housing corporation, andseveral health centers. CASS workersdeveloped a yearly calendar that included hintsand reminders on asthma management andlistings of medical providers, pharmacies,sources of aid for medical care and medication,and other sources of services and support. Thecoalition produced In Our Own Words,composed of the statements of summer campersregarding their feelings about asthma and newperspectives gained through camp. OpenAirways, the American Lung Association'scurriculum for school based asthmamanagement programs, was reviewed andadapted for use in coalition activities.Inaddition to appropriate evaluation surveys of thecommunity and schools, evaluation centers on acontrolled, cohort study of neighborhoodchildren compared with children fromcomparable neighborhoods. The authorsconclude that the Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition illustrates the potential of communityorganization approaches to involveneighborhood residents in planning andimplementing programs for asthma educationand management.1 figure, 4 tables,41 references. (HE9600949)53Chronsc Diseases and Risk FactorsCancer083Breast and Cervical Cancer Project in aNative Hawaiian Community: Wai'anaeCancer Research Project.Form:Journal article.Authors:Banner, R.O.; DeCambra, H.; Enos,R.; Gotay, C; Hammond, O.W.; Hedlund, N.;Issell, B.F.; Matsunaga, D.S.; Tsark, J.A.Source: Preventive Medicine.24(5):447 453,September 1995.Abstract:Researchers presented preliminaryfindings from the first year of the Wai'anaeCancer Research Project, a communityintervention to increase breast and cervicalcancer screening practices among nativeHawaiian women. Researchers conducted abaseline telephone survey to obtain an initialassessment of community knowledge, attitudes,and behaviors related to cancer among womenin the intervention community and in a controlcommunity. Women from the communityconducted the interviews, using interviewprotocols similar to the Behavioral Risk FactorSurvey Study (BRFSS) of the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention (CDC), whichwere modified to reflect culturally appropriatetechniques. The sample included 1,260 women,ages1 8 to 60 years, drawn equally from thestudy and control communities. This samplesize allowed for the detection of a 10 percentincrease in adherence to cancer screeningguidelines. The primary intervention involvedthe formation of health activated supportgroups, called Kokua Groups, within existingHawaiian social networks. Volunteer peerleaders recruited the groups, and outreacheducators facilitated them. The support groupssought to change the behavior of women notcurrently receiving cancer screening. Surveyrespondents were relatively evenly distributedacross age groups, with almost 50 percent underage 40. Although only 52 percent ofrespondents knew about the Papanicolaou (Pap)test, 94 percent reported having received at leastone Pap test. Eighty percent reported practicingbreast self examination at least periodically, and80 percent reported having obtained a clinicalbreast examination during the past 2 years. Ofthe women over age 40, 71 percent reportedhaving had at least one mammogram in thepast, and 59 percent reported having had amammogram during the past 2 years. Thirty sixpercent of the women stated that they hadencouraged others to obtain breast cancerscreening. Twenty eight percent reportedhaving used native Hawaiian medical remediesduring the past year.Results indicate that amajority of the participants took part in cancerdetection and screening activities. A significantminority, however, did not participate in cancerscreening. 2 tables, 16 references.(CP9600102)084Community Level Cancer Control in aTexas Barrio: Part I, Theoretical Basis,Implementation, and Process Evaluation.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ramirez, A.G.; McAlister, A.;Gallion, K.J.; Ramirez, V.; Garza, I.R.; Stamm,K.; de la Torre, J.; Chalela, P.Source:Journal of the National CancerInstitute Monographs.18:117 122, 1995.Abstract: Researchers designed andimplemented Programma A Su Salud, a theory based program that used peer modeling and a55Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsnetwork of peer communicators to promotebreast and cervical cancer screening in a barrioof San Antonio, Texas, with a population ofapproximately 25,000 women. The mainobjectives of the program were to increasescreening and compliance with Papanicolaousmear test recommendations among MexicanAmerican women over age 17, and to increasescreening and compliance with mammographyrecommendations among Mexican Americanwomen over age 39. The program combinedmass media and community activities in itspeer based approach. The program used severalforms of mass media, including print, radio, andtelevision in both English and Spanish formatsto present role models. Role models wererecruited from the community and eachreflected the same socioeconomic, ethnic, andcultural characteristics as the targeted audience.Results of a program evaluation showed thatapproximately 84,000 pieces of programmaterial were disseminated over 2 years. Anaverage of 5.7 stories were published per monthabout the program, with the majority appearingin newspapers. A total of 85 volunteers wererecruited to participate in the program; 92percent were female, average education wasseventh to eighth grade, and average age was49. Each of the volunteers helped an average of12 of their peers to make screeningappointments, and an average of 6 werefollowed by the volunteer to make sure theappointment was kept.5 tables, 24 references.(CP9500588)085Effect of a Cancer Screening InterventionConducted by Lay Health Workers AmongInner City Women.Form:Journal article.Authors: Sung, J.; Blumenthal, D.S.;Coates, R.J.; Williams, J.E.; Alema Mensah, E.;Liff, J.M.Source: American Journal of PreventiveMedicine.13(l):51 57, January February1997.Abstract: The authors conducted a trial todetermine if an in home, culturally sensitiveeducational intervention conducted by layhealth workers (LHW's) could increaseadherence among low income, inner city,African American women to breast and cervicalcancer screening schedules. The LHW's wererecruited from the National Black Women'sHealth Project (NBWHP), a self help healthorganization for African American women. TheLHW's trained for 10 weeks in interviewingand health education topics before theintervention and then interviewed 321 women,using a standardized questionnaire. The womenwere recruited from the patient registry of aninner city community health center; frompersonal contacts in public housing projects,business establishments, and churches; andthrough referrals from the NBWHP. Thequestionnaire assessed past history of cervicaland breast cancer screening and knowledge andattitudes toward cancer and cancer prevention.Participants were then randomly assigned tointervention and control groups. LHW's visitedthe intervention group participants in theirhomes two times,1 month apart, and scheduleda booster session for 2 months after the secondsession. The sessions focused on breast andcervical cancer, cancer screening procedures,reproductive health, and high risk sexualpractices. The intervention also included a56Cancervideotape of an African American womanreceiving a Papanicolaou (Pap) test and breastself examination from an African Americanphysician. The LHW's conducted follow upinterviews, with the intervention and controlgroups 6 months after the intervention.In bothbaseline and follow up interviews, participantswere asked when they had last received cancerscreening exams. The control group receivededucational materials on cancer screening afterthe completion of the follow up interview.Results showed the increase in screening forPap tests was similar in both the control andintervention groups. There was a small increasein clinical breast examinations in theintervention group, with the greatest increasebeing for mammography. Among women whowere not on recommended breast and cervicalcancer screening schedules at baseline, thescheduling improvement was substantial andgreater in the intervention group. The use ofLHW's in the project contributed to the increasein breast cancer screening for the interventiongroup. The researchers also discussed thepotential for using LHW's and the difficultiesof providing health education and promotion tolow income, inner city residents. 4 tables,25 references. (CP9700266)086Intervention to Increase Breast andCervical Cancer Screening in Low IncomeAfrican American Women.Illinois. The intervention, conducted from June1989 to November 1990, was implemented bynurses and outreach workers who were chosenbased on their level of cultural sensitivity andfamiliarity within the community. At aneighborhood center, the intervention programpresented a class on breast and cervical cancerand an invitation to screening. AnotherDepartment of Health center served as a controlsite. Nurses recruited women who expressed aninterest in participating in the program;outreach occurred in many institutions in thecommunity, including churches, beauty shops,laundromats, libraries, and grocery stores. Theprimary outcome measure used to evaluate theintervention was the proportion of eligiblewomen who received screening examinations inthe 12 months prior to data collection. Datawere abstracted from medical records for thewomen who had made an appointment orwalked in and were seen during the clinicsession. The proportion of women whoreceived Papanicolaou (Pap) smears rose from12 percent at baseline to 26 percent at 12months postintervention, the proportionreceiving clinical breast examination rose from6 percent to1 8 percent, and the proportionreceiving mammograms rose from 3 percent to1 1 percent.Screening proportions decreased inthe control group.2 tables, 27 references.(CP9400388)Form:Journal article.Authors: Whitman, S.; Lacey, L.; Ansell, D.Dell, J.; Chen, E.; Phillips, C.WSource: Family and Community Health.17(l):56 63, April 1994.Abstract: Researchers evaluated anintervention to increase breast cancer andcervical cancer screening in low income,African American women living in Chicago,57Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors087Lay Health Advisors: A Strategy forGetting the Word Out About BreastCancer.Form:Journal article.Authors:Earp, J.; Viadro, C.I.; Vincus, A.A.;Altpeter, M.; Flax, V.; Mayne, L.; Eng, E.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):432 451, August 1997.Abstract: The North Carolina Breast CancerScreening Program used a lay health advisor(LHA) intervention designed to increase the useof mammography screening services by AfricanAmerican women over age 50 years whoresided in five rural eastern North Carolinacounties. Five local African American womenwere hired as specialists to conduct communityassessments, recruit natural helpers and trainthem as LHA's, coordinate LHA activities, andcreate and work with five county communityadvisory groups. Then 125 women from thetarget communities were trained to serve asLHA's. Researchers developed a separatetraining manual for each county to reflect theunique concerns of the women in each countyand to provide county specific descriptions ofmammography services. The LHA's designedand conducted a variety of outreach activities insuch settings as African American churches,beauty parlors, supermarkets, and familyreunions. LHA activities (1) providededucation about breast cancer screening; (2)facilitated access to mammography facilities byproviding transportation, accompanying awoman to the screening, and disseminatinginformation about available services; and (3)addressed health system barriers by organizingspecial screening days or raising funds forwomen who could not afford mammograms.Multiple strategies were used to evaluate theLHA's profile, training, activities, and effect onbreast cancer screening behaviors of the targetpopulation. The primary challenges faced bythe program during implementation related toacquisition of resources, identification andrecruitment of committed LHA's, support forthe LHA activities, evaluation methodology,and the need for a multilevel interventionapproach that extended beyond the LHA'ssocial network focus. 2 tables, 44 references.(CP9700551)088Natural Helping Functions of Lay HealthAdvisors in Breast Cancer Education.Form:Journal article.Authors: Eng, E.; Smith, J.Source:Breast Cancer Research andTreatment.35(l):23 29, 1995.Abstract: The Save Our Sisters (SOS) Projectused the skills of 95 individuals called "naturalhelpers" to increase mammography screeningamong older black women in a North Carolinacounty.Natural helpers are lay people to whomothers naturally turn for advice, emotionalsupport, and tangible aid. To identify andrecruit natural helpers, the SOS project hired asSOS Project Coordinator a retired black womanfrom a black community who was sociallyactive in a range of local groups andassociations. She formed a1 2 membercommunity advisory group with contacts toother community groups; this advisory grouporganized 14 focus group interviews withmembers of different community organizationsand reviewed the findings.Interview resultswere used to develop the learning objectives fora Peace of Mind training course for lay healthadvisors (LHA's) and to describe thecharacteristics of natural helpers to whom olderwomen turn with female concerns. A total of125 potential LHA's were identified and 24completed the first training course. Findingsfrom the focus groups showed that older58Cancerwomen do seek out natural helpers to discusstheir personal concerns before they consultprofessionals. Through the SOS project,natural helpers provided a community basedsystem of care and social support thatcomplemented the more specialized role ofhealth professionals. The roles of the LHA'sincluded (1) assisting people in their socialnetworks with needs that are difficult forprofessionals to address, (2) negotiating withprofessionals for support from the healthsystem, and (3) mobilizing the resources ofassociations in their community to sustainsupport from the health system.2 tables,17 references. (CP9500567)089Por La Vida Intervention Model forCancer Prevention in Latinas.Form:Journal article.Authors: Navarro, A.M.; Senn, K.L.;Kaplan, R.M.; McNicholas, L.; Campo, M.C.;Roppe, B.Source:Journal of the National CancerInstitute Monographs.18:137 145, 1995.Abstract:Researchers describe thedevelopment and implementation of anintervention on cancer prevention for Latinas inSan Diego, California. Thirty six women fromthe Latino community were identified andrecruited as consejeras on the basis of theirleadership behaviors associated with thetraditional role of helpers in the Latinocommunity.Subsequently, these consejeraswere trained to conduct small groupeducational sessions on a particular healthtopic. Upon completion of the training, theconsejeras invited 512 low income Latinas whohad low levels of acculturation and education toparticipate in the small group educationalsessions from among their naturally occurringsocial networks (e.g., friends, neighbors, andfamily members).Half of the consejeras wererandomly assigned to a control group in whichthey conducted a program called CommunityLiving Skills; the remaining consejerasconducted Por La Vida, an intervention programfor cancer education. Using culturallyappropriate educational materials, theexperimental group of consejeras conducted PorLa Vida sessions based on empowermentstrategies, social support, and social learningtheory. The Por La Vida program consisted of12 weekly group sessions conducted over a 3 month period, followed by two additionalsessions. Topics included (1) Introduction; (2)The Fountain of My Life; (3) The FeminineBody; (4) Where Cancer Can be Found; (5)Keeping Your Uterus and Cervix Healthy; (6)Keeping Your Breasts Healthy; (7) OvercomingBarriers; (8) Eat Well to Live Well; (9) ProtectYour Health, Know Your Market; (10) Dangersof Smoking; (11) Moving Ahead; and (12)Graduation. Using pre and posttests, theresearchers found that in the cancer preventiongroups, Latinas over age 40 years who had everhad a mammogram increased from 51.8 percentto 64.3 percent, while there was no statisticallysignificant increase in the control group. Therewas no statistically significant change forLatinas over age1 8 years who ever had aPapanicolaou (Pap) test in the control group,but in the intervention group the tested rateincreased from 80.4 percent to 93.5 percent.Preliminary evidence suggests that the Por LaVida intervention may lead to significantincreases in the rates of cancer screening testuse and Pap test use.8 tables, 42 references.(CP9500591)59Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors090Reach to Recovery Program.Form:Journal article.Author:Rinehart, M.E.Source:Cancer.74(1, Supplement):372 375,July1, 1994.Abstract: Reach to Recovery is a peermodeling program provided by the AmericanCancer Society for women with a diagnosis ofbreast cancer. The program, designed to helpwomen meet the physical, emotional, andcosmetic needs related to their disease andtreatment, provides contact between womennewly diagnosed with breast cancer and womenwho have been treated for the disease. Programvolunteers must (1) have been treated for breastcancer; (2) have the approval of their physiciansto participate; (3) maintain confidentiality; (4)have adjusted to their diagnosis and beemotionally stable; (5) show warmth, courtesy,tact, and consideration during a visit; (6) beknowledgeable of professional ethics; and (7)agree to participate in yearly training updates.Potential volunteers participate in a screeninginterview, and if accepted, they participate in atraining session. Each new volunteeraccompanies a trained volunteer on a visitbefore going on a visit alone. The volunteerprovides the woman who has breast cancer withpractical information, emotional support, and atemporary prosthesis. The information includeswritten materials from the American CancerSociety about different types of breast cancertreatment, breast cancer copying techniques,breast reconstruction, and appropriate exercises.One follow up phone call is made to thewoman, usually within 2 weeks of the visit.The volunteer usually provides the woman'sphysician with a visit report and sends a writtenreport to the local cancer society office. Thewoman's physician must refer her to theprogram, although referrals can be initiated bythe nurse or social worker, and patients canrefer themselves to the program.1 figure,2 references. (HE9700091)091Save Our Sisters Project: A SocialNetwork Strategy for Reaching RuralBlack Women.Form:Journal article.Author: Eng, E.Source:Cancer.72(3): 107 1 1077,Supplement to August1, 1993.Abstract: The Save Our Sisters (SOS) Project,a pilot demonstration study in a rural NorthCarolina county, addressed breast cancerscreening in older black women in an effort tohelp more older black women receivemammography screening. The targetpopulation was 2,600 black women ages 50 to74 living in the county. To help these womenobtain annual mammograms, SOS recruited andtrained