is a rare form of pulmonary hypertension, which is elevated blood pressure in the lungs. The condition occurs when blood vessels in the lung have been blocked by a clot for a long time. The clots that trigger CTEPH often form elsewhere, most commonly in the leg, a condition known as . A clot in the leg can travel to the heart and lung and become lodged in the lung vessels. This is known as a pulmonary embolism. A clot can also form from within the lung: this is known as a thrombus. Most pulmonary clots resolve on their own or with the use of anticoagulants, also called blood thinners. However, in CTEPH, the clot does not resolve and becomes scar tissue on the inside of a lung artery. This scar tissue can make it harder for blood to flow through the lungs, and it increases the work of the right side of the heart. These are some of the symptoms people with CTEPH have: shortness of breath, especially during physical activity chest pain and discomfort swelling of the legs heart palpitations, dizzy spells, and blackouts Over time, pressure in blood vessels of the lungs can cause the right side of the heart to become weak. If left untreated, this can lead to right heart failure and, in severe cases, death. CTEPH affects up to 5 percent of people who have pulmonary embolism. About half of those with CTEPH are not aware of a prior deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. To learn more about our program and schedule an appointment, please call 212-263-1260. Our specialists have extensive experience in diagnosing and treating CTEPH. William H. Moore Chest Imaging Specialist Caroline W. Motschwiller Roxana Sulica Bedros Taslakian Thoracic Surgery Services Thoracic surgeons are an integral part of the CTEPH care team. Our cardiac surgeons, heart failure specialists, and interventional cardiologists help manage CTEPH. Physical and occupational therapy may be part of your CTEPH care plan. Complex Surgery Restores Health of Short-of-Breath Athlete Facial Paralysis & Reanimation Center 646-501-7906 Your face is one of the most identifiable things about you. When it has been altered by sudden or chronic facial paralysis, that can have a profound impact on your appearance. At NYU Langone’s Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, we understand the challenges of and specialize in creating a personalized treatment approach that is focused on achieving the best results for you. Facial Nerve Paralysis in Adults Medication, surgery, and rehabilitation therapy are used to treat facial nerve paralysis. The Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center is led by a team of experts from multiple areas of medicine, including otolaryngology, ophthalmology , and neurology as well as rehabilitation experts from NYU Langone’s Causes of Facial Paralysis Paralysis is caused by injury to the facial nerve. The most common cause of sudden facial paralysis is Bell’s palsy. It may also be present from birth, occurring during childbirth or as a result of a genetic condition. Facial paralysis can also occur following a head injury or result from a bacterial or viral infection, including Lyme disease, infections of the middle ear, or herpes zoster oticus, also known as Ramsey-Hunt syndrome. The removal of intracranial or parotid tumors vascular malformations can also cause sudden facial paralysis. Facial paralysis usually affects one side of the face. It may cause a person to lose the ability to smile, blink, or move their face in other ways. Certain areas of the face, such as the brow, the cheek, or the lower lip, might droop. This affects both your appearance as well as your ability to speak, eat, drink, and protect the eye. Treatment for Facial Paralysis At the Facial Paralysis and Reanimation Center, our experts meet regularly to discuss individual patient’s unique concerns. This collaboration among NYU Langone experts from diverse specialties results in a customized solution that is aimed at improving your appearance and restoring normal function. The treatment options for facial paralysis are broad, and our experts guide you through the treatment process. Treatments can be medical, surgical, rehabilitative, or, more commonly, all three. Electrodiagnostic testing, including electroneuronography, electromyography, and audiology, is used evaluate the chance that the paralysis will recover on its own and not require surgery. Often, medication can be used to treat facial paralysis. Interventions include botulinum toxin injection to treat uncoordinated facial muscle movements. Facial filler can even out any asymmetry within the face. If surgery is needed, our expert doctors determine the approach that is best for you. include: browlift, upper eyelid weight placement, and lower lid resuspension for the eye and brow region facial nerve decompression to reduce the harmful effects of inflammation on the nerve and jumpstart recovery intracranial or intratemporal nerve grafting and rerouting to restore function to the facial muscles local muscle transposition, contralateral muscle ligation, and platysmal ligation to treat the lower lip and neck suspension slings to elevate the corner of the mouth and restore a symmetric smile, help with nasal breathing, and improve your ability to eat and drink temporalis tendon transfer and gracilis free flap techniques to restore facial movement and function to the muscles of the face through surrounding nerves including the masseteric nerve, hypoglossal nerve, opposite facial nerve, and ansa cervicalis nerve These surgical techniques are designed to provide a permanent solution that improves facial symmetry and function. Our physicians specialize in facial and reconstructive surgery, otolaryngology, and head and neck surgery. Danielle Eytan Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeon David R. Friedmann Adam S. Jacobson Head & Neck Surgeon Daniel Jethanamest Judy W. Lee NYU Langone plastic surgeons offer a noninvasive weight loss treatment that can trim inches of fat off the waistline, back, thighs, and arms. The treatment, called Vanquish, works best for people who have tried other weight loss and exercise programs but have not been able to trim those last few inches from trouble areas. For long lasting results, Vanquish works best when used as part of a healthy diet and exercise regimen. Most patients see results within one to three months. How Noninvasive Fat Removal Works Vanquish works by targeting the fat cells that sit between your skin and muscle. The Vanquish device delivers heat at a radiofrequency that affects only fat cells, not the surrounding tissue. The radiofrequency destroys the fat cells, which then leave the body through the urinary system. NYU Langone experts recommend four, 45-minute treatment sessions for optimal results. During the treatment, you lie on a table while the heat-emitting panels are positioned above the target area. When the procedure begins, you feel a warm sensation throughout the treatment zone. There is no physical contact with the panels, and the treatment is pain free. After the session is over, we recommend that you drink water to help your body naturally flush out the dead fat cells. For more information about the Vanquish treatment, including cost, please call At the myFace Family Support Center at NYU Langone, which is a part of our cleft and craniofacial services , we understand the psychological, emotional, and social impact that facial differences can have on a person and his or her family. Facial differences can be congenital—present at birth—and include conditions such as a cleft lip and palate. If they occur later in life, they are referred to as “acquired” and may be the result of an accident or trauma. We believe that the psychological and social wellbeing of our patients and their families is just as important as the best medical care and surgical outcomes. We offer a range of services that include psychological assessments, psycho-educational workshops, short-term and ongoing psychotherapy, innovative social programs, and referrals for neuropsychological evaluations. Psychological and academic testing is also provided. Experts at the myFace Family Support Center provide counseling to parents of children who are born with facial differences. Services may be initiated as early as the prenatal period, when a child is identified in the womb as having facial differences, and continue throughout the course of a person’s medical and surgical treatment. Patient Support We can assist with a variety of issues that people with facial differences may experience. These may include , social inhibitions, anger, and “acting out” behaviors. Throughout a patient’s treatment journey, we offer supportive counseling to patients as well as their parents, siblings, spouses, and significant others. We also provide intensive psychological support for people having surgery and assist with workplace and academic transitions. Our Support Team Our specialists have decades of combined experience working with and supporting patients who have facial differences as well as their families. Our team includes: Jessica Aceste, MS, LCSW, social work Kristen Hay, PNP, BC Margaret Lico, MS, CCC-SLP, speech pathology Deborah Malkoff-Cohen, MSRD, CDN, nutrition Our office is located at 222 East 41st Street, on the 22nd floor. For more information or to schedule an appointment, please call 212-263-5834 with expertise in hand surgery provide a variety of innovative treatments to infants, children, and adults with acquired or congenital defects of the hand and upper extremities, including the shoulder, arm, elbow, and wrist. Our hand specialists, including Dr. Sheel Sharma, collaborate to treat people with a broad range of conditions that affect the hand. A hand specialist leads each person’s care team, which may include plastic surgeons, orthopedic surgeons, physical therapists, psychiatrists, and pain management specialists. Treatment is also provided by physiatrists, which are doctors who specialize in rehabilitation medicine, and electrodiagnosticians, which are technicians who record the electrical activity in your muscles. Together, your healthcare team works to develop a treatment plan for you. All of our surgeons have received a Certificate of Added Qualification in Hand Surgery, which is now called the Subspecialty Certificate in Surgery of the Hand, from the Joint Committee on Surgery of the Hand of the American Boards of Orthopaedic Surgery, Plastic Surgery, and Surgery. Every attending surgeon on the team is also credentialed in microsurgical reconstruction—a skill vital for the complex challenges of hand surgery. Our specialists have vast experience with a broad range of conditions affecting the hand, including the following: vasospastic disease, such as Raynaud’s disease deformities caused by traumatic injuries requiring complex reconstructive surgery bone fractures tumors and carcinomas of the hand, including giant-cell tumor of the tendon sheath, keratoacanthoma, squamous cell carcinoma , epithelial cell sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, schwannoma, and neurofibroma inflammatory disease, such as scleroderma and nerve palsy related to trauma or disease osteoarthritis secondary to degenerative joint disease, , and inflammatory joint disease replant surgery to restore a severed finger or hand tenorrhaphy, swan neck deformity, or boutonniere deformity Our hand surgeons provide many treatment options for people with hand conditions. These may include carpal instability repair, reduction, and reconstruction, as well as repair or reconstruction of the peripheral nerve with autogenous nerve graft or autogenous venous nerve conduit. They can also salvage limbs using a procedure called microsurgical vascular anastomosis, perform tendon repair and reconstruction, and offer tumor removal and reconstruction. In addition, our surgeons perform finger replantation and revascularization. Our Hand Surgeons The treatment of hand defects requires a team approach. Our specialists work closely together to provide the highest quality treatment and outstanding results. Nikhil A. Agrawal, MD Jonathan L. Bass, MD David T.W. Chiu, MD Sheel Sharma, MD Vishal D. Thanik, MD To make an appointment, please call Prepare for Your Appointment The physicians at NYU Langone’s Lateral Skull Base Surgery Program are experts at managing diseases and disorders of hearing, balance, the cranial nerves, and the skull base. We work in tandem with NYU Langone’s experts in neurosurgery. Dr. John Golfinos and Dr. J. Thomas Roland perform lateral skull base surgery. Our team offers comprehensive and compassionate expertise for conditions such as acoustic neuromas or other nerve tumors; facial nerve tumors; meningiomas, a common type of brain tumor that is usually benign; neurofibromas, a genetic condition linked to tumors of special cells that nourish the nerves; cholesteatomas, or abnormal growths in the middle ear and intracranial space; and skull base inflammatory and infectious diseases. We also provide customized management of symptoms caused by the above conditions—such as hearing loss, facial nerve weakness, and vocal cord weakness—through our Facial Nerve Center . For example, our Cochlear Implant Center offers auditory brainstem implants as well as other auditory prostheses, depending on your individual needs and medical history. Our team is an important part of the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Program , one of the largest in the country. Patients have access to advanced medical care and techniques through this program, such as new drug trials, delicate surgical removal, stereotactic radiation that precisely targets tumors, and cochlear and auditory brainstem implants. or to visit our center, you can contact us directly or check to see if you need a referral from your primary physician or general otolaryngologist. Our doctors offer individualized, patient-centered care and advanced treatment options. We also recommend surgical options to help manage your individual issue or the side effects that go along with it, as well as rehabilitative options to help speed recovery. We provide state-of-the-art diagnostic and treatment options for a variety of conditions affecting the ear, including the cranial nerves, vessels, and bones. Our board-certified neurotologic and neurosurgical specialists have extensive experience in managing tumors and other diseases that affect the nerves of hearing, balance, swallowing, facial sensation, and movement and speaking. Our team has made remarkable advances in restoring varying degrees of hearing to children and adults. We are actively involved in clinical trials with many medications for inhibiting tumor growth as well as innovative surgical and hearing restoration techniques. NYU Langone oculoplastic surgeons offer compassionate, individualized care that includes evaluations and surgery, if necessary. Our oculoplastic surgeons, including Dr. Eduardo D. Rodriguez, specialize in treating people who have conditions affecting the eye and eyelids. We specialize in a variety of conditions affecting the eye as well as the eyelids and the lacrimal, or tearing system of the eyes. These include the following: absence of or blocked tear ducts and chronic infections and inflammation of the tear ducts cosmetic eyelid surgery corneal exposure, a condition in which the eye’s cornea, or front part of the eye, becomes inflamed eyelid drooping , also known as ptosis eye tumors facial nerve disorders that produce incomplete eyelid closure loss of an eye post-traumatic injuries affecting the eye eyelid retraction due to Graves’ disease Our Oculoplastic Surgeons NYU Langone specialists have decades of experience and are highly skilled in caring for people with a wide range of conditions affecting the eye and eyelids. Stella Chung, MD 212-263-5211 As part of NYU Langone’s comprehensive transgender health services , our surgical team provides reconstructive care that centers your vision for aligning your body and anatomy to your gender identity. What to Expect Learn more about what to expect during a robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty. Please note this video is graphic. Watch the video We offer surgical procedures to meet the needs of transgender and nonbinary people, and help you prepare for surgery . Our team includes highly skilled and experienced plastic and reconstructive surgeons, urologists, otolaryngologists, and gynecologists who are leaders in gender-affirming surgery. Together, we perform more than 800 gender-affirming surgical procedures per year. Our collaborative approach ensures you receive the highest standard of surgical care. And all of our surgeries are performed at , where our patient rooms are single-bedded for your privacy. VIDEO: Sydney Walther chose a gender-affirming procedure with our transgender surgery services team. She and her parents share their experience. For people preparing for genital surgery, you are able to meet with your plastic surgeon and urologist together to answer all of your questions and develop the treatment plan best suited to your goals. We collaborate with experts in endocrinology, physical rehabilitation, psychiatry, psychology, and reproductive endocrinology and provide referrals when needed. Our mission is to care for the whole person, and each surgical plan is unique and tailored to meet your individual goals. We are recognized by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation as an LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader , which recognizes our commitment to providing high-quality, individualized care for all. Facial Surgery Our experts in craniofacial surgery perform facial gender-affirming surgery, also known as facial feminization or facial masculinization surgery. These procedures include the following: brow lift cheek augmentation chin reshaping, also known as genioplasty chondrolaryngoplasty, also known as tracheal shave, to reduce of the prominence of the Adam’s apple at the front of the throat frontal bone and brow contouring hairline advancement jaw reduction lip lift rhinoplasty to restructure the nose Chest and Torso Surgery We perform gender-affirming mastectomy, also called top surgery or chest masculinization. There are several surgical options to create a flat chest and reposition and reduce the nipple and areola area. We also perform breast augmentation, also called breast feminization, where implants are added to create larger breasts. Reproductive Procedures and Fertility Preservation Our gynecologists and urologists perform the following reproductive organ procedures: orchiectomy to remove the testicles hysterectomy to remove the uterus, which may include oophorectomy to remove ovaries if desired Our doctors provide fertility-preserving interventions, such as egg or sperm harvesting and , through Genital Surgery Genital surgery, also known as bottom surgery, is used to create the desired genital anatomy. When possible, our reconstructive plastic surgeons and urologic surgeons use the robotic da Vinci surgical system. We are one of the country’s only gender-affirming surgery programs that performs robotic surgery for these procedures. Robotic surgery provides surgeons with greater visibility and reach in the narrow cavity of the pelvis, which allows these procedures to be performed with greater safety and precision. Vaginoplasty and Related Procedures Vaginoplasty includes creation of a clitoris, labia majora, and labia minora, removal of the testicles and erectile tissue, and shortening of the urethra. A vaginal canal is created between the rectum and prostate. A robotic approach is especially helpful in the creation of the vaginal canal because it allows us to use a peritoneal flap, sometimes called peritoneal pull-through or the Davydov procedure, to achieve greater vaginal depth. As leaders in this procedure, we have published detailed information about robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty surgery. View a video that describes this procedure in detail . Please note that this video is graphic. Phalloplasty Surgery to create a penis is a multiple step process that is unique for each person and based on their desired outcome. Phalloplasty uses skin from another location on the body, such as the forearm or thigh, to make a penis. Your surgeons use microsurgery techniques to connect blood vessels and nerves that allow for blood flow to and sensation in the penis. Urethral lengthening, which creates a longer urine channel through the penis, is possible. Our surgeons perform this procedure along with vaginectomy to remove the vagina. You may also choose to have scrotoplasty to create a scrotum. Once the initial reconstruction is complete you can also choose to have erectile devices and testicular implants. Recovery After Gender-Affirming Surgery After surgery, our work with you to help soften scars, strengthen the pelvic floor following bottom surgery, and regain motion and strength after chest surgery. Our social worker also connects you with services that support you during recovery and as you move into life after gender-affirming surgery. Our Gender-Affirming Surgery Team Our gender-affirming surgery team provides care for transgender and nonbinary people. For appointments, please contact each doctor directly. Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Rachel Bluebond-Langner, MD Oriana D. Cohen MD Jamie P. Levine, MD Gynecology Christopher N. Eswar, MD Lauren E. Stewart, MD Ruth A. Tessler, MD Bobby B. Najari, MD OurHead & Neck Surgeons NYU Langone’s team of doctors is dedicated to providing the most advanced, personalized care.Browse our list of world-classhead and neck surgeons, and schedule an appointment online. otolaryngology—head & neck surgery services NYU Langone’s plastic surgery team offers laser treatments that give the skin a more youthful look, remove hair from unwanted places, and provide relief from urinary incontinence and vaginal discomfort. Laser treatments offer a range of benefits, from lessening fine lines and pores to tightening the skin. Our highly skilled, board-certified medical professionals have advanced training in the medical use of lasers. Our focus on your safety and comfort assures you’ll receive a treatment that is gentle, effective, and requires little to no recovery time. It also yields faster results than less advanced laser therapies. Skin Rejuvenation The Sciton Joule TM , a medical laser, offers a combination of light and laser therapy that allows our practitioners to customize a treatment designed to meet your needs. This treatment works by using heat to stimulate collagen production and, when appropriate, to remove the upper levels of skin cells. This process can tighten skin and reduce the signs of aging. This process also encourages the growth of new cells, which have an improved appearance and function. Our facial rejuvenation and laser skin resurfacing treatments can help with the following: tighten skin and improve the appearance of aging skin lessen fine lines and pores remove brown spots improve acne scars reduce redness in people with rosacea or spider veins treat spider veins or small blood vessels on the face and body remove unwanted hair in people of all skin tones improve the color, thickness, and texture of scars Vaginal Rejuvenation Changes in hormone levels that accompany childbirth, treatment can affect vaginal health. This can lead to painful intercourse, vaginal dryness, vaginal laxity or constriction, and vaginal atrophy, which is the thinning of the lining of the vagina. The DiVa Hybrid Fractional Laser technology, also part of the Sciton Joule , encourages the growth of new cells in the vagina. These new cells provide improved lubrication as well as tighter, more youthful tissue. DiVa is also helpful in treating and overactive bladder. The vaginal rejuvenation procedure takes less than five minutes, and your comfort is our priority. You are cared for by a female nurse practitioner, and can return to normal activities immediately and sexual intercourse within 48 hours after treatment. For more information on laser surgery services performed by our plastic surgery team, please call 212-263-3010 laserconsultation@nyulangone.org The experts at NYU Langone’s provide a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to treating dysphagia, which is difficulty swallowing. The severity of this condition ranges from mild to a life-limiting disability, and it may lead to dehydration, malnourishment, and pneumonia. Our doctors work closely with you and your family to determine a personalized dysphagia treatment plan. Our collaborative approach to treating dysphagia ensures you get the care that's right for you. Diagnosing Dysphagia Our goal is to find the precise cause of swallowing difficulties to improve your quality of life so you can enjoy eating again. Our team of laryngologists, pulmonologists, and gastroenterologists collaborate on a complete evaluation of the esophagus, mouth, throat, and vocal cord muscles to determine any structural or functional issues that may affect swallowing. These are some of the potential causes of dysphagia: aging autoimmune, neurological, and pulmonary disorders cysts diverticulosis gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD laryngopharyngeal reflux disease, or LPR, when stomach acid travels to the throat polyps stricture, the narrowing of an organ To confirm a diagnosis of dysphagia, we use on-site testing methods that include the following: barium swallow study and videofluoroscopic swallow study, in which an X-ray is taken of the mouth, neck, and chest to evaluate abnormalities in the swallowing mechanism or digestive tract flexible endoscopic evaluation of swallowing, which uses a fiberoptic endoscope in the throat to visualize the actual swallow in progress transnasal esophagoscopy, the insertion of an endoscope through the nose to the stomach If additional testing is needed, we collaborate with doctors at NYU Langone’s to perform the following studies: esophageal manometry, the placement of a thin catheter into the esophagus to measure movement and pressures during swallowing pH testing, to evaluate patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease and laryngopharyngeal reflux disease by monitoring acid exposure within the esophagus and voice box Following diagnosis, we consult with our voice and swallowing therapists, physiatrists, and head and neck surgeons to determine your optimal treatment plan. Our doctors spend considerable time discussing your care, which may include dietary and exercise recommendations, body repositioning while eating, prescription medications, , and rehabilitative services. For more information about dysphagia treatment, please call Voice, Swallowing & Airway Conditions We Treat The care team at NYU Langone’s treats voice, swallowing, and airway disorders. For singers and actors, we also provide specialized care for the professional voice Conditions That Affect the Voice Our physicians and therapists treat patients with a host of conditions that affect vocal quality. We employ the most effective treatment options to help you sound like yourself again, including innovative voice rehabilitation techniques that include voice training and speech therapy, and, when necessary, Vocal Nodules Vocal cord nodules are benign lesions on the vocal folds caused by extensive vocal demands or a traumatic injury. Voice therapy is the most common treatment, but some people may need surgery to remove advanced nodules. Laryngitis Laryngitis is inflammation of the larynx. Treatment depends largely on the cause of the inflammation, but may involve a combination of vocal rest, fluid intake, improved vocal hygiene, or voice therapy, as well as medicines to treat the infection. Laryngopharyngeal Reflux Laryngopharyngeal reflux, or acid reflux, refers to the backflow of stomach acid into the throat that causes a hoarse voice, chronic throat clearing, the feeling of having a lump in your throat, or trouble swallowing. The treatment of laryngopharyngeal reflux usually involves a combination of approaches, including dietary and behavioral modifications, medications to reduce stomach acid, and in some cases surgery to prevent further damage caused by reflux. Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis causes wartlike lesions to grow on the vocal folds. Surgery to remove these papillomas is the traditional treatment for this condition, but medications and in-office laser treatment can also provide relief. The Voice Center is a leader in research into better understanding recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. Muscle Tension Dysphonia Muscle tension dysphonia refers to an abnormal pattern of voice use, resulting in the improper use of the muscles of the voice box and often a change to the quality of the voice. Voice therapy is the most common and effective treatment. Spasmodic Dysphonia Spasmodic or spastic dysphonia is a disorder that causes abnormal speech. The most common and reliable therapy involves the use of Botox, a medication containing a very small amount of botulinum toxin, to weaken the vocal cords and limit the abnormal contractions. Teflon Granulomas After its introduction in 1962, Teflon injections became a popular treatment for paralyzed vocal cords. Unfortunately, the injections caused Teflon granuloma formations and scarring of the vocal cords. Completely removing these granulomas is often very difficult. However, at the Voice Center, we specialize in a treatment method that allows a complete removal of Teflon granulomas as well as reconstruction of the vocal folds. Vocal Cord Granulomas Vocal granuloma is a particular type of laryngeal lesion that forms in the back portion of the voice box. People with granulomas may complain of hoarseness, chronic throat clearing, throat pain, a cough that is occasionally blood-tinged, and feel a lump in their throat. Treatment includes voice therapy, Botox injections into the vocal cord, or surgery to remove the lesion. Vocal Fold Paralysis Paralysis of one or both vocal folds, also known as vocal cords, can cause hoarseness, vocal fatigue, pain, aspiration, or tightness in the throat when speaking and breathing. Treatment of vocal cord paralysis differs depending on whether the paralysis affects one or both of the vocal folds. Vocal Cord Polyps Vocal cord polyps are benign lesions, similar to vocal cord nodules, that can cause hoarseness, constant throat clearing, coughing, and trouble swallowing. Small polyps, often caused by irritants such as tobacco smoke, may respond to alone. Other polyps, particularly those that are large or cause bleeding, often require surgery. Airway and Breathing Conditions Laryngologists at the Voice Center treat breathing problems by opening the airway to improve respiration. Subglottic and Tracheal Stenosis Narrowing of the airway can sometimes be the result of subglottic or tracheal stenosis, conditions that make it difficult to get adequate amounts of air to the lungs. Endoscopic surgical techniques can help open the airway. Your doctor might also recommend a stent, a type of surgical scaffolding, to keep the airway open, or a tracheostomy, which creates an opening through the neck directly to the windpipe. Vocal Cord Dysfunction Vocal cord dysfunction (VCD), also referred to as paradoxical vocal fold motion, occurs when the vocal cords do not open and close normally when you breathe. In certain circumstances, a sudden and severe VCD attack requires immediate emergency room treatment. Symptoms of VCD include shortness of breath, tightness in the chest, frequent coughing, loud breathing, and hoarseness. VCD may be caused by a respiratory infection, a strong response to very potent odors, acid reflux, postnasal drip, stress, exercise, or tobacco smoke, particularly secondhand smoke. Doctors at the Voice Center can perform tests to determine if the VCD is accompanied by or other conditions. We look closely at your vocal cords and may perform a spirometry exam to test how well you breathe and how your lungs are performing. VCD can be difficult to diagnose, so seeking out care during an attack can help you get the treatment you need. The treatment for VCD may include respiratory retraining therapy, stress management, and treatment of underlying conditions such as asthma. Swallowing Disorders Our multidisciplinary team of experts collaborate to determine the cause of your condition and provide treatment and rehabilitative services. Aspiration Aspiration is the abnormal entry of food or liquid into the windpipe and from there into the lungs. Aspiration may lead to pneumonia or other long-term lung complications. Treatment may include dietary changes, adjusting the position of your head when you eat, or swallowing exercises. Some patients may require therapy or surgery to improve their swallowing mechanism. If you have started experiencing , which is difficulty swallowing, we encourage you to seek immediate treatment to avoid dehydration, malnourishment, and other health concerns. Zenker’s Diverticulum Zenker’s diverticulum is an anatomic abnormality that results in a pouch forming alongside the esophagus. The pouch fills with food or liquid, which may then be regurgitated into the throat, leading to swallowing difficulties or aspiration. Treatment includes surgery to remove the pouch. For more information, please call us at Surgical Treatment for Voice Disorders In some cases, surgery is the best option for treating a voice, swallowing, or airway-related condition. At NYU Langone’s , our surgeons are experts at providing care that treats your underlying condition while also preserving your vocal quality. Laser Surgery Laser surgery is a common treatment for vocal cord cancer in its earliest stages. The laser enables microscopic precision that preserves as much normal tissue as possible, thus limiting the impact on the voice and swallowing after surgery. A one-time surgical operation can be offered as an alternative to six weeks of standard radiation therapy. Surgeons at the Voice Center, including Dr. Milan R. Amin, use advanced, minimally invasive surgical techniques to help preserve vocal quality. Phonomicrosurgery Phonomicrosurgery uses microsurgical instruments and techniques to improve vocal function. The technique is used in the following procedures to address problems with the voice, breathing, or swallowing: biopsy of throat lesions injection laryngoplasty, sometimes called vocal fold augmentation, which is the injection of a substance into one or both of the vocal cords to bring them closer together in order to produce a stronger voice laryngeal reinnervation, which creates a new nerve supply for a paralyzed vocal cord laryngectomy, the surgical removal of the voice box, which is most often used to treat advanced laryngeal cancer laryngoplasty, a procedure designed to permanently change the shape of the voice box to improve the voice microlaryngoscopy, a surgical technique that uses a microscope and specialized microinstruments to perform extremely precise excisions and other interventions on the delicate structures of the vocal cords tracheostomy, which is the insertion of a tube into the trachea, or windpipe, to enable easier breathing For more information about surgical care provided by the Voice Center, please call Our specialists are experts at diagnosing, evaluating, and managing chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), in which fibrotic scar tissue forms on the inside of a lung artery after . We are one of the only centers in the United States to offer pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. This surgical procedure, the gold standard for treatment, is highly effective at stopping its progression. Diagnosing and Evaluating CTEPH Upon referral to our program and before your first appointment, the CTEPH team reviews all your medical records and tests. Our specialists may order a variety of additional tests to diagnose and evaluate the condition. This helps us create a treatment plan and determine whether you are a candidate for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. To do this, you may be given tests such as the following: a , or computed tomography, performed with a special protocol and reviewed by radiologists to identify scar tissue inside of the arteries in the lungs a ventilation and perfusion (V/Q) scan, a test that identifies problems between the air and blood flow in the lungs echocardiography , a noninvasive ultrasound that provides information about the structure and function of the heart and pulmonary artery pressure a right heart catheter study, in which a catheter is inserted into a vein in the neck or groin to measure the pressures in the chambers of the heart and the pulmonary artery; this is the most accurate way to confirm a CTEPH diagnosis If you are a candidate for surgery, your team may recommend more tests, such as blood tests, pulmonary or coronary angiograms, an X-ray of the arteries in the lungs or heart taken with contrast dye, ultrasounds of the veins and arteries, lung function tests, and exercise tests. Advanced Treatment Options for CTEPH CTEPH is a manageable condition, and there are treatments that can potentially stop its progression or even resolve it. Pulmonary Thromboendarterectomy Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy is a highly effective treatment for CTEPH. For this procedure, the surgeon makes an incision through the sternum, or breastbone, and then places the patient on a heart–lung bypass machine and systematically cools the body to preserve organ function. The surgeon opens the affected pulmonary artery and carefully removes the scar tissue from the inner layer of the blood vessel. Both lungs are explored, and all the major blood vessels are cleaned of scar tissue. Briefly stopping the heart–lung machine reduces bleeding and allows for the most accurate removal of scar tissue. After the procedure, patients recover in the intensive care unit for several days and for 10 to 14 days in the hospital. Your care team may recommend spending some time at the program at to build up your strength and stamina before going home. Balloon Pulmonary Angioplasty Our interventional cardiologists at may manage CTEPH with a balloon pulmonary angioplasty, which is less invasive than surgery. For this procedure, a doctor threads a catheter into a lung artery and inflates a balloon to open the blood vessel, improving blood