p=0.018), decreased risk of transfusion (OR 0.70, p< 0.001) and no difference in the risk of PE (OR 1.01, p=0.798) associated with the aspirin cohort compared to warfarin cohort. These findings were consistent on multivariate analysis. Conclusion: After accounting for surgeon selection bias, aspirin use was associated with an increased risk for DVT but decreased risk for transfusion compared to warfarin. These data call for high quality randomized trials to assess the efficacy of aspirin compared.NotesPaper #29Aspirin and Venous Thromboembolism Following Total Joint Arthroplasty: An Analysis of Efficacy Nathanael D. Heckmann, MD, Amit S. Piple, MD, Jennifer C. Wang, BS, Daniel A. Oakes, MD, Alexander B. Christ, MD, Jay R. Lieberman, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program48Introduction: Outpatient physical therapy following knee arthroplasty has been standard practice; however evidence suggests in person physical therapy (PT) may not be necessary for all patients. This study aimed to provide mid term follow up data from a study that demonstrated reduced PT use with a mobile application for self directed rehabilitation. Methods: This study presents mid term follow up data from a multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled trial comparing a smartphone based care management platform (sbCMP) to standard of care following knee arthroplasty procedures. KOOS JR scores one year postoperatively and changes from baseline scores were compared between control and treatment group using t tests. Results: 245 patients were randomized to the control group and 160 patients received the sbCMP following knee arthroplasty. Baseline patient characteristics including gender, age, BMI and KOOS JR were similar between control and treatment groups. 60. of patients prescribed the sbCMP utilized adjunct PT postoperatively. The change in KOOS JR scores from preoperative levels were similar at one year (32.2±16.6 vs 31.3±17.6 points, p=0.70). Overall KOOS JR scores were similar between controls and the sbCMP group at one year (83.0±14.9 vs 84.0 ±14.0, p=0.6). Those in the treatment group not requiring adjunct PT had significantly higher KOOS JR compared to controls at one year postoperatively (88.7±11.8 vs 83.0±14.9, p=0.01). Conclusion: A sbCMP can be effectively used to guide rehabilitation after knee arthroplasty and can help avoid the need for outpatient PT. Mid term follow up data suggests equivalent outcomes for those requiring adjunct PT compared to controls and those using the sbCMP alone.NotesPaper #30One Year Outcomes of Smartphone Based Care Management Platform After Total Knee Arthroplasty David A. Crawford, MD, Paul J. Duwelius, MD, Adolph V. Lombardi, Jr., MD, FACS, Keith R. Berend, MD, Alexander M. DeHaan, MD, Roberta E. Redfern, PhD 49www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: A recent consensus meeting reported caution when performing medial UKA in patients with lateral patellar facet osteoarthritis (LPFOA). The purpose was to determine if LPFOA revealed lower survivorship or patient reported outcomes following medial UKA. Methods: 144 fixed bearing medial UKAs were performed by a single surgeon and included. Patient selection used a specific clinical algorithm. LPFOA was defined as Outerbridge grade 3 or 4 on the lateral patellar facet. Same day knee arthroscopy was performed to examine the patella prior to UKA and chondral damage was recorded. Open patelloplasty was performed in all patients with LPFOA. Patients completed a subjective questionnaire to determine Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS) for KOOS subscales (ADL, Sport, QOL) and clinical exam at minimum 5 year follow up. Results: 109 patients did not have LPFOA and 35 patients had LPFOA (7 isolated LPFOA; 28 both medial/lateral PFOA). Patients with noLPFOA were younger than those with LPFOA (63±9 vs. 69±10years; p=0.006). There were more females in the LPFOA group () compared to the noLPFOA () (p=0.032). Four patients in the noLPFOA group required TKA, while no revisions were performed in the LPFOA cohort. There was no difference in mean survival time: noLPFOA=9.6 [CI:8.9 10.3] and LPFOA=10.4 [CI:9.3 11.4] (p=0.25). At mean follow up of 10 years, there was no difference in knee flexion (noLPFOA=129°, LPFOA=130°; p=0.439) or extension (noLPFOA=0.46°, LPFOA=0.52°; p=0.886). PASS KOOS ADL was achieved in in the noLPFOA group and in the LPFOA group (p=0.807). PASS KOOS Sport was achieved in in the noLPFOA group and in the LPFOA group (p=0.441). PASS KOOS QOL was achieved in in the noLPFOA group, and in the LPFOA group (p=0.723). Conclusion: At mean 10 years, there were no differences in survivorship or outcomes in patients with and without LPFOA. These long term results support the use of fixed bearing medial UKA in patients with LPFOA, however, clinical and radiologic patient selection algorithms are essential.NotesPaper #31Lateral Patella Facet OA Is Not Contraindicated for Medial UKA: Mean 10 Year Outcomes & Survivorship Kevin D. Plancher, MD, MPH, Karina Wang, BS, Sarah Commaroto, Kathryn Dotterweich, Karen K. Briggs, MPH, Stephanie C. Petterson, PhD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program50Introduction: Functional alignment (FA) strives to balance the knee soft tissue envelope during total knee arthroplasty (TKA) using implant alignment adjustments rather than soft tissue releases. There is an ongoing debate for how best to achieve FA. We compare 2 year outcomes between FA with a mechanical alignment plan [FA(m)] and FA with a kinematic alignment plan [FA(k)]. The null hypothesis is that coronal limb alignment achieved will be the same between FA(m) and FA(k) techniques, and there will be no difference in 2 year outcomes.Methods: Prospective data was collected from 300 consecutive primary TKAs [135 FA(m) and 165 FA(k)]. Functional alignment was achieved by adjusting implant alignment from the MA or KA starting plan to achieve balance with robotic assistance. Patient reported outcomes were obtained pre operatively and 2 years post operatively ( follow up). The coronal plane alignment of the knee (CPAK) classification was used to classify knee alignment phenotypes. Results: Overall limb alignment was equivalent between groups. Final implant alignment was different between FA(m) and FA(k) groups, with FA(k) TKAs having higher tibial varus (p< 0.01), higher femoral valgus (p< 0.01), higher joint line obliquity (p< 0.01) and more femoral internal rotation relative to the TEA (p< 0.01). Patients reported higher FJS 12 scores with FA(k) TKAs (79.4 versus 71.6, p=0.018), and greater range of motion (125° versus 121°; p=0.003). Patients with constitutional varus (CPAK Type I) knees reported the greatest improvement in outcomes when comparing FA(k) versus FA(m) TKAs (FJS at 2 years of 89 versus 65; p< 0.001).Conclusion: Utilizing an implant alignment plan that considers a patient's native joint line (FA(k)) led to a final implant position with greater joint line obliquity, yet the same overall limb alignment. This was associated with improved outcomes at 2 years post TKA. Three dimensional component position and joint line obliquity affect outcomes independent of coronal limb alignment.Notes Paper #32Individualized Functional Alignment Improves Clinical Outcomes in TKA Patients with Constitutional Varus Gavin W. Clark, FRACS, Dermot Collopy, MD, Richard Steer, MD, Nazim Khan, PhD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting51Introduction: Rotating Platform (RP) bearings in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) have the potential to reduce polyethylene wear and improve patellar tracking due to axial freedom. However, concerns for increased risk of revision have been described due to the associated tibial component design, added complexity with balance and risk of bearing dislocation. We examine the risk of revision with use of RP compared to fixed bearing (FB) designs in TKA. Methods: An analysis of primary TKA cases in patients age >65 years was performed with American Joint Replacement Registry data linked to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services data from 2012 2019. Patient demographics, and cause for revision were recorded. Analysis compared RP to FB designs using Cox proportional regression modeling for all cause and revision for infection, adjusting for gender, age and the competing risk of mortality. Event free survival curves evaluated time to revision for all cause and revision for infection. Results: We identified 485,024 TKAs, with 452,199 (93.) FB and 32,825 (6.) RP bearings. Compared to FB the RP were at increased risk for all cause revision HR 1.36 ([ CI 1.24, 1.49], p< 0.0001). There was no difference in revision for infection, HR 1.06 ([ CI 0.90, 1.25], p=0.516). Event free survival curves demonstrated increased risk for all cause revision for RP bearings across all time points, with a greater magnitude of risk as time elapsed out to 8 years. Conclusion: Similar to other national registry investigations, RP designs in this study demonstrated increased risk for all cause revision. Given no difference in risk of revision for infection, additional investigation is needed to determine if the increased failure rates could be related to unaccounted for patient selection factors, surgical technique, bearing issues or potentially implant related issues including tibial baseplate fixation.Notes The James A. Rand Young Investigator's AwardIncreased Revision Risk with Rotating Platform Bearings in Total Knee Arthroplasty Vishal Hegde, MD, Jamil S. Kendall, MD, Kathryn L. Schabel, MD, Christopher E. Pelt, MD, Patrick J. Yep, MPH, Kyle Mullen, MPH, Ayushmita De, PhD, Ryland P. Kagan, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program52Introduction: Whether to resurface the patella during total knee arthroplasty (TKA) remains debated. One often cited reason for not resurfacing is inadequate patellar thickness. However, when left un resurfaced, this cohort has known relatively high revision rates. The aim of this study is to describe the implant survivorships, reoperations, complications and clinical outcomes in patients who underwent patellar resurfacing of a thin native patella. Methods: Our institutional total joint registry was used to identify patients undergoing primary TKA with patellar resurfacing from 2000 to 2010. Of the 11,333 identified patients, 200 (1.) had a pre resection patellar thickness of ≤19mm. Pre resection and post resection patella thickness was measured intraoperatively using calipers. Median pre resection and post resection thickness was 19 (range 12 19) and 12.5 (range 10 17), respectively. Mean age was 69 years, mean BMI 31 kg/m2, and were female. Indications for surgery included: osteoarthritis (n=153), rheumatoid arthritis (n=33), post traumatic arthritis (n=14). Median follow up was 10 years (range 2 20). Results: At 10 years, survivorships free of any patella revision, patella related reoperation, periprosthetic patella fracture and patella related complication were , , , and , respectively. There were 2 patella revisions: 1 for aseptic loosening and 1 for PJI. There were 2 additional patella related reoperations, both arthroscopic synovectomies for patellar clunk. Two patients underwent MUA. There were 3 periprosthetic patella fractures managed nonoperatively, all with well fixed components and intact extensor mechanisms. Radiographically, the patella appeared well fixed in all non revised knees. Knee society scores improved from mean 36 preoperatively to mean 81 at 10 years postoperatively. Conclusion: Resurfacing the thin native patella was associated with high survivorship free of patellar revision at 10 year follow up. None the less there was one case of patellar loosening and 3 periprosthetic patella fractures. These risks must be weighed against the known higher incidence of revision when the thin native patella is left un resurfaced.NotesAAHKS Surgical Techniques and Technologies AwardResurfacing the Thin Native Patella: Is It Safe? Jacob M. Wilson, MD, Mikaela H. Sullivan, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD, Robert T. Trousdale, MD 53www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Dexamethasone has been shown to reduce pain in total joint arthroplasty beyond a single preoperative dose, and extended duration of steroid use has precedence for nausea prevention during some chemotherapy regimens. This double blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial investigates the postoperative effects and safety of oral dexamethasone as a potential augment to multimodal use in outpatient knee arthroplasty. Methods: The authors prospectively randomized 109 consecutive patients undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty at one institution. Patients were assigned to one of two groups: Group A (57 patients) received 4 mg of dexamethasone by mouth twice per day starting postoperative day (POD) one for four days and Group B received placebo capsules. All healthcare professionals and patients were blinded to group allocation. The primary outcome was defined as postoperative pain scores for POD 1 7. Secondary outcomes included 90 day postoperative complications, nausea and vomiting, daily opioid usage, assistance for ambulation, difficulty sleeping and early patient reported outcomes. Results: Demographics and comorbidities were similar between groups. The patients who received dexamethasone had statistically significant decrease in VAS scores when averaging POD 1 4 (p=0.01). The average VAS scores amongst individual days were significantly lower with dexamethasone on POD 2 4. While taking dexamethasone, morning and midday VAS scores were significantly lower. The dexamethasone group took less oxycodone than the placebo group, but this was not statistically significant (p> 0.05). There was no difference between the groups with nausea or vomiting, 90 day complications, ability to walk with/without assistance, difficulty sleeping and early patient reported outcomes (Table 2). Conclusion: This double blind, randomized, placebo controlled trial demonstrated that oral dexamethasone following primary total knee arthroplasty reduces pain scores postoperatively when added to a multimodal pain control regimen. This stands as a beneficial and safe option in ambulatory surgery where patients are unable to receive the traditional postoperative intravenous dose of dexamethasone.NotesAAHKS Clinical Research AwardOral Dexamethasone Following Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Double Blind, Randomized Controlled Trial Jonathan H. Shaw, MD, Luke D. Wesemann, BS, Trevor R. Banka, MD, Wayne T. North, MD, Michael A. Charters, MD, Jason J. Davis, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program54This symposium will provide the latest information on a hotly debated topic in total knee replacement. With the recent spike in interest in alternative alignment techniques and with the advent of new technologies, surgeons are slowly evolving away from classical mechanical alignment. However, the literature is polluted with confusing terminology and techniques. Audience members will leave with an understanding of knee alignment and a simple/easy way to incorporate it into their practice. Learning Objectives:1.To identify the differences in alignments techniques for total knee arthroplasty.2.To review how to a perform each technique using conventional instruments and/or computer assisted technologies.3.To review native knee kinematics and when to utilize each technique.Outline:Introduction Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD How do you Define all these Different Alignment Strategies? Fares S. Haddad, FRCS Knee Phenotypes Does this Really Matter? Michael T. Hirschmann, MD Is Mechanical Alignment still the Gold Standard or Should we Consider Alternative Alignments for TKA? Mark W. Pagnano, MDHow to Safely Introduce these Strategies into your Practice? Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Discussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VCurrent Concepts in Alignment in Total Knee Replacement Moderator: Jonathan M. Vigdorchik, MD Faculty: Fares S. Haddad, FRCS, Michael T. Hirschmann, MD, Mark W. Pagnano, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting55Introduction: Pre operative factors can complicate the post operative course and increase healthcare utilization following total hip arthroplasty (THA). Fibromyalgia is not generally recognized as a modifiable risk factor prior to THA and the aim of this investigation was to assess its effect on post operative healthcare utilization following THA.Methods: A retrospective review using Medicare Standard Analytical Files (PearlDiver Database) was performed querying International Classification of Disease, tenth revision (ICD 10) procedures codes for THA procedures between 2015 2020. Patient demographics, age, sex, pre operative opioid use were collected. Analysis compared patients with or without fibromyalgia for post operative healthcare utilization metrics, length of stay (LOS), 90 day post operative opioid use, dislocation and emergency room visits. Independent t test was used to compare LOS and rates of ongoing opioid use. Logistic regression analysis with adjusted Odds Ratios (aORs) evaluated the association of fibromyalgia and odds for dislocation or emergency room visit after adjustment for demographic characteristics. Results: 28,138 patients with THA were identified over the study period, 1,455 (5.) carried the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The patients with fibromyalgia were younger (62.6 ± 10.1 vs 66.5 ± 10.6, p< 0.0001) and more likely to be female (8. vs 1., p< 0.000001). LOS was increased in the fibromyalgia group (8.44 days ± 8.12 days vs 2.65 days ± 3.01, p< 0.000001). 90 day post operative opioid use was higher in the fibromyalgia group 68. vs 59. (p< 0.000001). The odds for dislocation was increased in the fibromyalgia group aOR 1.67 ( CI 1.24 1.87, p< 0.02). Odds for emergency room visit was increased in the fibromyalgia group OR 1.46 ( CI 1.35 1.58, p< 0001.Conclusion: Fibromyalgia can complicate post operative care following THA with increased LOS, higher rates of opioid use and increased odds of dislocation and emergency room visits. As focus shifts to pre operative optimization and risk stratification, more attention should be placed on fibromyalgia prior to THA.NotesPaper #33Fibromyalgia Increases Post Operative Healthcare Utilization Following Total Hip Arthroplasty Ryland P. Kagan, MD, Mark E. Mildren, MD, Spencer Smith, BS, Jung Yoo, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program56Introduction: Patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) have high mortality and complications after total hip arthroplasty (THA). Recent advances in HCV therapy have enabled clinicians to eradicate disease using antiretroviral therapy (ART) and direct acting antivirals (DAA), but these therapies are not commonly prescribed for patients prior to THA. The purpose of this study was to perform a cost effectiveness analysis comparing no therapy, ART and DAA prior to THA among HCV positive candidates.Methods: A Markov model was constructed with costs, probabilities and quality adjusted life year (QALY) values obtained from published literature. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) was compared to a willingness to pay threshold of $100,000/QALY to determine the cost effectiveness of ART and DAA compared to no therapy prior to THA. Costs were calculated in 2021 dollars, and they were discounted annually for inflation. Sensitivity analysis was performed to investigate the uncertainty associated with input variables.Results: Our Markov model indicates that both ART and DAA prior to THA are cost effective. HCV patients were modeled with increased rate of deep infection (9.) compared to healthy patients (1.). THA in the setting of no therapy, ART and DAA added 8.06, 11.62 and 14.39 QALYs at an average total cost of $28,800, $65,400 and $115,800. The ICER associated with ART and DAA in comparison to no therapy was $10,300/QALY and $13,800/QALY, both under the willingness to pay threshold of $100,000/QALY. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that the ICER was influenced primarily by patient age, ART/DAA cost and effectiveness and HCV associated mortality. Conclusion: Total hip arthroplasty is exceptionally cost effective, and our results highlight that ART and DAA prior to THA are cost effective at current price points for HCV patients who have increased risk of poor outcomes. Our cost saving estimates remain conservative as they do not account for HCV associated medical complications. Strong consideration should be given to treating HCV prior to THA.NotesPaper #34Treating Hepatitis C Prior to Total Hip Arthroplasty is Cost Effective: A Markov Analysis Afshin A. Anoushiravani, MD, Gokul V. Kalyanasundaram, BS, James E. Feng, MD, MS, Frank Congiusta, MD, Richard Iorio, MD, Matthew Dicaprio, MD 57www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: The ideal timing for bilateral total hip arthroplasty (THA) to avoid an increased risk of adverse events remains controversial. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 90 day outcomes after simultaneous and staged bilateral THA.Methods: Laterality specific International Classification of Disease, 10th Revision codes were used to retrospectively identify 273,281 patients undergoing primary THA during 2015 2020. Of these, 39,905 (14.) were bilateral. Patients were divided into cohorts of unilateral THA, simultaneous bilateral THA and staged bilateral THA at 1 14 days, 15 42 days, 43 90 days and 91 365 days. Bilateral THA cohorts were matched one to one with unilateral THA patients based on age, gender, year, Elixhauser Comorbidity Index (ECI), and a preoperative diagnosis of obesity, tobacco use and diabetes. Univariate and multivariate analysis were used to compare 90 day outcomes between matched groups with a significance level of p< 0.05. Outcomes were collected beginning after the second THA in staged bilateral groups. Results: Simultaneous bilateral THA was associated with an increased risk of transfusion (odds ratio [OR] 4.43, confidence interval 2.31 2.63, p< 0.001), readmission (OR 2.60, 2.01 3.39, p< 0.001), and any complication (OR 1.86, 1.55 2.24, p< 0.001) compared to unilateral THA. Bilateral THA staged at 1 14 days increased the risk of readmission (OR 1.83, 1.49 2.24, p< 0.001) and any complication (OR 1.45, 1.26 1.66, p< 0.001) relative to unilateral THA. Bilateral THA staged at 15 42 days also increased the risk of adverse events, including periprosthetic joint infection (OR 3.15, 1.98 5.19, p< 0.001), transfusion (OR 2.90, 1.84 4.70, p< 0.001), readmission (OR 1.92, 1.55 2.39, p< 0.001) and any complication (OR 1.70, 1.46 1.97, p< 0.001). Bilateral THA staged at 43 90 days and 91 365 days resulted in similar or decreased rates of individual complications, reoperation, readmission and any complication relative to unilateral THA. Conclusion: Bilateral THA should be staged a minimum of 6 weeks apart in appropriately selected patients to avoid an increased risk of adverse events.NotesPaper #35Bilateral Total Hip Arthroplasty Staged within 6 Weeks Increases Risk of Adverse Events Joseph Serino, MD, E. Bailey Terhune, MD, Robert A. Burnett, MD, Jonathan A. Guntin, BA, Craig J. Della Valle, MD, Denis Nam, MD, MSc 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program58Introduction: Robotic arm assisted total hip arthroplasty (RO THA) has been shown to improve the accuracy of component positioning compared with conventional total hip arthroplasty (CO THA), but it remains unknown how this translates to any differences in patient reported outcome measures (PROMS). This study reports the clinical outcomes of a previous trial that showed RO THA was associated with improved accuracy and reduced outliers in acetabular component positioning compared with CO THA. Methods: This prospective cohort study included 50 patients undergoing CO THA versus 50 patients receiving RO THA. Predefined outcomes including the Oxford hip score (OHS), Forgotten joint score (FJS), and University of California at Los Angeles hip (UCLA) score and any associated complications were recorded annually for three years. Patients in both treatment groups were comparable for age, gender, body mass index, laterality of surgery and ASA scores.Results: At three year follow up, there was no statistically significant difference in CO THA versus RO THA with respect to the OHS (41.7 ± 5.4 vs 42.3 ± 4.9, p=0.478), FJS (84.7 ± 9.1 vs 89.2 ± 7.8, p=0.063) and UCLA score (7.6 ± 1.4 vs 7.9 ± 1.9, p=0.243). None of the study patients had dislocations or underwent revision surgery. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient showed no statistical correlation between accuracy of achieving the planned cup inclination and version with the OHS, FJS or UCLA score. Conclusion: Improved accuracy of acetabular component positioning in RO THA in a high volume setting does not appear to significantly improve short term functional outcomes or complication risk compared to CO THA. Further studies are needed to assess the significance of these findings on longer term clinical outcomes and implant survivorship, and also explore the impact of the enhanced RO THA workflow and functional positioning for both acetabular and femoral component placement on these outcomes.NotesPaper #36Patient Reported Outcome Measures in Conventional Total Hip Arthroplasty Versus Robotic Arm Assisted Babar Kayani, MD, PhD, Andreas Fontalis, MD, MSc, Isabella C. Haddad, Christian Donovan, Jenni Tahmassebi, BS, Fares S. Haddad, MD, FRCS (ORTHO) www.AAHKS.org/Meeting59Introduction: Short to midterm follow up studies have not demonstrated a negative effect of using larger femoral heads at the cost of thinner highly crosslinked polyethylene (HXLPE) liners in modern total hip arthroplasty (THA). However, concern remains that these thinner liners may prematurely fail in the long term. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long term survival and revision rates of HXLPE in primary THA and the effect of liner thickness.Methods: We retrospectively identified all primary THA done in a single center using HXLPE from 2010 and earlier, including all head and liner sizes/thickness. We included 2565 THA with a mean follow up of 13.2 years (range 11.0 18.8). Mean age was 67.7 years, mean BMI was 29.0 and 47. were female. Patient characteristics, implant details, death and revisions were collected. Patients were grouped for analysis for each millimeter of PE thickness (e.g. 4.0 4.9mm, 5.0 5.9mm). Kaplan Meier survival was used to determine all cause and aseptic loosening revision rates. Results: Liner thickness varied from 4.9 to 12.7 mm, with one third < 6mm. Head sizes ranged from 28 to 40 mm, with 92. being 32 or 26mm and 98. of them being metallic heads. Liner related revision rates were 0., all cause revision rates were 4. and reoperation rates were 7.. Estimated survival rates were at 10 years and 94. at 20 years. When grouped by liner thickness, there were no significant differences in all cause revisions (p=0.112) or aseptic revisions (p=0.116).Conclusion: There were no significant differences in all cause or aseptic revisions between any of the liner thickness groups at long term follow up. Our results indicate that using thinner HXPE liners to maximize femoral head size in THA does not lead to increased revision or liner failures at long term follow up and is a safe practice when using HXLPE.NotesPaper #37HXLPE Liner Thickness in THA Does not Influence Survival in 2584 Hips with Mean 13.2 Years Follow up Bas L. Fransen, MD, PhD, Lisa C. Howard, MD, Tanya Mac Donell, MD, Francisco J. Bengoa, MD, Donald S. Garbuz, MD, Gerard A. Sheridan, MD, Michael E. Neufeld, MD, MSc, FRCSC 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program60Introduction: Traditionally, nondisplaced geriatric femoral neck fractures have undergone operative fixation while displaced geriatric femoral neck fractures have undergone hip arthroplasty (HA). The purpose of this study was to evaluate differences between outcomes in patients with nondisplaced (Garden 1/2) fractures and displaced (Garden 3/4) fractures that were treated with arthroplasty. Methods: This was a retrospective review of patients with a minimum of 1 year follow up from nine academic medical centers who underwent HA for femoral neck fractures between 2010 2020. Chi square, Fisher's Exact, and t tests were used to compare demographics and outcomes between patients who had a displaced fracture and those who had a nondisplaced fracture. Results: One thousand six hundred and twenty patients met inclusion criteria with 128 patients in the non displaced cohort and 1492 in the displaced cohort. The mean follow up in the study was 26.4 months. Both groups were similar in terms of demographic variables including age, sex, body mass index diabetes, tobacco use, injury mechanism and injury severity score (all p> 0.05). At 1 year follow up, there were no revisions (0/128) for nondisplaced femoral neck fractures that underwent HA and a 2. revision rate for displaced femoral neck fractures that underwent HA. Heterotopic ossification (HO) was significantly higher in displaced (23.) vs nondisplaced fractures (11.) (p=0.0021). Interestingly, operative times [120 vs 104 min (p=0.0002)] and blood loss [424 vs 332 ml (p=0.001)] were significantly higher in nondisplaced than displaced fractures that underwent HA. Conclusion: Hip arthroplasty is an excellent treatment option for nondisplaced and displaced geriatric femoral neck fractures, with no revisions at 1 year for nondisplaced fractures and a revision rate for displaced fractures. HO is higher in patients with displaced femoral neck fractures. HA is a reasonable treatment option for non displaced femoral neck fractures to potentially decrease revision surgeries in a frail patient population.NotesPaper #38Displaced vs Nondisplaced Femoral Neck Fractures: Is Arthroplasty the Answer for Both? Graham J. DeKeyser, MD, Jeffrey J. Frandsen, MD, Brenna E. Blackburn, PhD, Jeremy M. Gililland, MD 61www.AAHKS.org/MeetingAs the prevalence of obesity continues to rise, the proportion of patients undergoing total joint arthroplasty (TJA) has followed suit. Extensive literature has reported on obesity as an independent modifiable risk factor for increased complications, readmissions and reoperations. However, the influence of weight loss prior to TJA on adverse events remains elusive. Obesity is a very complex systemic and societal problem and the lack of successful weight loss strategies by arthroplasty patients have been reported in the literature. Strict BMI cutoffs may limit access to care not only for patients who could have safely undergone TJA, but also may disproportionately affect certain disadvantaged populations. Evidence based perioperative measures can mitigate risk in obese patients and enable safe TJA with low risk of complication. This symposium is aimed at interpreting the best available literature to help participants discern how best to safely care for the ever growing obese arthroplasty population. Learning Objectives:1.Recognize the risks associated with performing total joint arthroplasty on obese patients.2.Review the implications of BMI cutoffs on access to care.3.Review the implications of preoperative weight loss on outcomes.4.Discern the best way to optimize obese patients prior to total joint arthroplasty.5.Outline the optimal surgical techniques, perioperative protocols and care pathways for total joint arthroplasty for the obese patient.Outline:Introduction Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSCWhat Does the Data Say about the Perioperative Risks of Obesity and BMI? James A. Browne, MDIs there an Optimal BMI Cutoff? Or Do BMI Cutoffs Needlessly Reduce Access to Care? Employed Surgeons and Hospitals Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSC Weight Loss Before Surgery: Does it Reduce Risk? Kevin A. Sonn, MDHow to Safely Operate on the Obese Patient: Tips and Tricks for THA and TKA Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, MScDiscussion All FacultyNotesSymposium VIGo Big or Go Home: Optimizing Outcomes in Obese Patients Moderator: Michael Blankstein, MD, MSc, FRCSC Faculty: James A. Browne, MD, Kevin A. Sonn, MD, Ran