Center to take on a growing number of patients whose complex scoliosis, spinal tumors, and their concomitant effects would have once been inoperable, he notes. A Rigid Deformity Despite five weeks of traction, there was minimal to no reduction or movement of the T4 and T5 subluxation. Pre-traction (A) and post-traction (B) images are shown. Dr. Lau first recommended an attempt to realign the spine through halo gravity traction in the hope of offering a less invasive surgery. However, after five weeks in the hospital having traction, the patient exhibited only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, and a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction was scheduled. Tumor Prevents Traditional Fixation CT scan showing dysmorphic vertebrae and dysplastic pedicle that are noncontiguous with the corresponding vertebral bodies. Significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. The volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies, likely contributing to the translocation. Typically, pedicle screws are inserted in order to fixate, stabilize, and reduce the scoliotic spine into place. However, this patient’s bone had been worn too thin. Vertebral Column Resection Intraoperative photo of the final construct following scoliosis and subluxation correction with decompression of the spinal cord. Construct spans C7 to T10 with hybrid fixation of laminar bands (black arrows) and pedicle screws. The surgical team employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine, strategically interspersing screws where supportive bone was available. In this case, both T4 and T5 were removed to completely disconnect the spinal column to facilitate complete reduction and achieve perfect alignment. The looped bands and screws were used to pull the spine back into a normal position. Direct Spine Realignment Postoperative X-rays show construct from C7 to T10. Patient is now well aligned with complete reduction of subluxation and correction of scoliosis. With postoperative X-ray confirming direct realignment of the spine, the patient completed a brief inpatient stay without complications and walked out of the hospital to return home to recover. His neurologic function remained intact. Neurosurgery, Pediatric Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Darryl Lau, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and adult spinal deformity at NYU Langone. He specializes in complex spine, scoliosis, spinal deformity, revision surgery, spinal oncology, and spinal reconstruction and was dual fellowship-trained in both adult and pediatric neurosurgery and orthopedic surgery. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting This year, physicians representing the Department of Neurosurgery at NYU Langone Health gave speeches, presented cases, led panel discussions, and facilitated courses at the annual meeting of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. View full conference information here. Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Friday, April 29 Course Practical Clinic 205 Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director: Saturday, April 30 Abstract Discussant: A Multi-center Study of Intra-operative, in Vivo, Optics-based Detection of Brain Tumor Tissue Using Raman Spectroscopy and Machine Learning Discussant: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Monday, May 2 Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Session Abstract Session Moderator: Speaker Session Intra-operative Histology & AI Image Analysis Community Speaker: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Socioeconomic Rapid Fire Session 485 – Influence of Healthcare Disparities on Outcomes for Spinal Metastasis Patients Case Presentation and Panel Discussion Transvenous AVM Treatment, CSF-venous Fistulae, MMA Embo for CSDH, ICH, Venous Stenting for IIH, DVST Panel Discussion/Q&A Interesting Cases Community Panelist: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Cerebrovascular Abstract Session Abstract Session Moderator: Erez Nossek, MD Panel Discussion Session VII, Panel II: Treatment of Middle Cerebral and Basilar Tip Aneurysms Discussant: Howard A. Riina, MD In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient SOURCE: NYU Langone Simplifying Surgery For a Complex Clinical Picture With neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), aggressive tumor growth can result in a complex clinical portrait including facial paralysis and partial or complete hearing loss. Typically, surgical treatment for advanced cases might include three or more separate surgeries to remove the tumor(s), place an auditory brainstem implant (ABI) or cochlear implant (CI), and reanimate the facial nerves. When a patient with NF2 experiencing symptom escalation—including total hearing loss and facial paralysis—was referred to the , a team co-led by , chair of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery, targeted an ambitious goal: achieving tumor resection, hearing restoration, and facial nerve reanimation in a single surgery. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” “Once this patient could no longer communicate or control her facial function, it became clear that the tumor was aggressive enough to warrant action,” Dr. Roland says. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” Integrating the patient’s surgical needs into a single-day procedure required orchestration between neurosurgery, neurotology, audiology, plastic surgery, and facial reanimation specialists. “The teamwork between our neurosurgeon and neurotologist allows us to tackle the most difficult tumors with confidence,“ says , chair of the Department of Neurosurgery. “Based on our extensive experience in NF2 within neurosurgery and ENT, it’s unlikely to encounter anything we haven’t seen before.” The team successfully performed the tandem procedure, removing the patient’s tumor, restoring her hearing, and reinnervating her facial movement. Her quality of life has returned far sooner than would have been possible through multiple surgeries. A Symptomatic, Treatment-Refractory Tumor The patient experienced single-sided deafness after undergoing a prior surgery at another center for a right-sided vestibular schwannoma (pre-surgery photo shown). Sudden symptom escalation prompted her to seek urgent consultation, and a single, complex surgery was planned to treat tumor recurrence. Phase One, Tumor Resection, Complete With the tumor resected, Dr. Roland applied a technique he pioneered, facial-to-hypoglossal neurorrhaphy with parotid release. He dissected the distal portion of the facial nerve and released the parotid gland, then connected the facial nerve to another adjacent nerve. The approach reduces the number of needed anastomoses, which eliminates half available nerve fibers. The facial reanimation team, composed of head and neck and facial plastic surgeons, completed a number of other nerve transfers to the facial nerve using a technique they have pioneered. Auditory Brainstem Implant Successfully Placed While a CI can be placed if there is an appearance of functioning cochlear nerve, the tumor had grown so rapidly that it compromised the cochlear and facial nerves, indicating an ABI would be more effective. The patient’s auditory brainstem responses were assessed by William Shapiro, AUD , co-director of the , to ensure adequate ABI paddle placement. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data Prototype implantable devices are moving into development, with the potential to fill major knowledge gaps in epilepsy research by offering real-time, state-of-the-art seizure monitoring. Nearly one-third of patients living with epilepsy experience persistent, intractable seizures that do not respond to medication. The new technology could peel back the curtain about why this occurs. “We now have the opportunity to build a new, ultrathin implantable device that can have thousands of measurement contacts instead of dozens,” says professor , co-director of the video electroencephalogram laboratory and member of the Prototype Successes The implant—a flexible, liquid crystal polymer surrounding hundreds of thousands of electrodes—was developed via an expansive public-private partnership that recently earned $8 million from the NIH’s Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies® (BRAIN) Initiative. The funding will be shared between NYU’s Center for Neural Science , Duke University, the University of Utah, and Blackrock Neurotech. The collaborative team has already developed and tested several prototypes capable of collecting neural data directly before, during, and after seizures. Their most recent iteration was successfully implanted and tested intraoperatively for up to 30 minutes in dozens of patients across the institutions. The researchers report their brain-machine interface achieves “25× higher electrode density, 20× higher channel count, and 11× reduced stiffness than conventional clinical electrodes.” Further Development, Plus a Clinic Trial With the new NIH support, the team will develop a further refined version of the device that can be implanted for up to 30 days. They anticipate the device will enable high-density sampling across multiple brain regions. A phase I clinical trial will follow initial testing, during which Dr. Friedman will serve as a site principal investigator. The overarching goal is to capture a high-definition picture of brain microsignals that occur moments before epileptic seizures. Such data have been previously unobtainable, and are a critical step toward neurostimulative therapies designed to prevent debilitating seizures in patients with epilepsy. Says Dr. Friedman, “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” A Gateway to New Therapies Indeed, neurostimulation as a potential treatment for neurologic conditions emerged in the 1980s . Since then, treatment options have vastly expanded to include laser ablation, precision surgeries, catheter-based interventions, and more. Similarly, implantable tech has evolved to offer unprecedented benefits . Patients can now control computer systems and even prosthetic devices simply by thinking, Dr. Friedman says. Previous research by Dr. Friedman and others has shown the promise of advanced seizure treatments made possible through implantable devices, including vagus nerve stimulation, responsive neurostimulation, and deep brain stimulation. Data from the implantable devices could open the door for more personalized interventions using these and other modalities for patients with epilepsy. More broadly, the devices could provide critical data to understand exactly why their seizures occur in the first place. A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Alzheimer’s disease research has long focused primarily on drugs that may reduce amyloid plaques as a potential treatment. Recently, however, monoclonal antibodies that target tau tangles have also begun to show promise. The decade-old Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer’s Network Trial Unit (DIAN-TU)—an international public–private partnership focused on dominantly inherited Alzheimer’s disease (DIAD)—is currently enrolling participants for its first phase 2/3 trial of such a drug. The Tau NexGen trial, as it is known, is also the first Alzheimer’s disease prevention study to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with two drugs simultaneously. The global, multicenter trial is testing E2814, an investigational anti-microtubule binding region tau antibody, in conjunction with the FDA-approved anti-amyloid drug lecanemab. “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future.” NYU Langone Health is the only Tau NexGen study site in the New York tristate area, drawing in patients from throughout the region. The site principal investigator is Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Center for Cognitive Neurology “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future,” says Dr. Wisniewski, an internationally recognized expert on amyloid deposition who has contributed to the development of several novel biomarkers and treatments for the disease. “In this disorder, where you have two pathologies—the accumulations of amyloid beta and abnormally phosphorylated tau—it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” A One-Two Punch The Tau NexGen trial includes patients who are both presymptomatic and symptomatic for DIAD. Participants in the former group are cognitively healthy but are biologically characterized as accumulating tau “seeds” in the brain. Symptomatic participants have early cognitive impairment and are characterized by neurofibrillary tangle spread. The trial will assess the safety, tolerability, biomarker, and cognitive efficacy of multiple anti-tau drugs, beginning with E2814. Lecanemab will serve as the “background” anti-amyloid therapy. Presymptomatic patients will be randomly assigned to receive E2814 or a placebo for a year before beginning lecanemab. By staggering the therapies in this manner, the investigators will be able to evaluate the effects of the anti-tau drug alone before assessing the impact of both drugs together. Because amyloid plaques accumulate before tau tangles in Alzheimer’s disease, the study team aims to assess whether amyloid removal clears the way for an anti-tau drug to function most effectively. “In this disorder where you have two pathologies, it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” If the primary and secondary endpoints are shown to be positive after two years, the study will be extended for another two years to assess whether E2814 slows cognitive decline in symptomatic patients and has further effects on tau pathology. Home Field Advantages An unusual aspect of the Tau NexGen trial design is that intravenous medications will be administered in patients’ homes by nurse practitioners and infusion nurses, removing a common barrier to participation. “A big stumbling block for these types of intravenous biologics is the hassle of having to come into an infusion center every few weeks,” Dr. Wisniewski notes. “Home-based care is a big advantage for patients and their families.” An added advantage for the NYU Langone trial site is that, unlike many centers, it has an in-house facility for synthesizing tracers for amyloid and tau PET imaging. “These ligands often have very short half-lives, which can create logistical problems when they have to come from an outside manufacturer,” Dr. Wisniewski says. “Being able to make ours in-house will help us get these potentially beneficial medications to as many patients as possible.” Neuropathology, Dementia & Alzheimer’s Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD, is the Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman Professor of New York University Alzheimer’s Disease Center and director of the Center for Cognitive Neurology. His research interests focus on the mechanisms that drive amyloid deposition in Alzheimer’s and prion diseases. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment David P. Hudesman, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The expansion in therapeutic options for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) means that more patients achieve remission and a smaller proportion require surgery than years past. The challenge now lies in identifying avenues for early intervention and tailoring therapy to optimize response, says David P. Hudesman, MD at NYU Langone Health. “We have multiple different treatment options, a lot more than we had just five years ago, but the challenge today is determining how to pick the right drug for the right patient,” Dr. Hudesman says. Currently, he and NYU Langone colleagues are leading an expansive array of studies—from clinical trials focused on optimizing approved therapies to projects aimed at assembling a suite of medical and surgical risk prediction tools—to drive improvements in treatment along multiple fronts. Optimizing Therapy One trial that recently finished enrollment is a prospective cohort study to identify predictors of response to tofacitinib for patients with ulcerative colitis. Dr. Hudesman, who is serving as the principal investigator, says genetic data, blood immune profiles, stool microbiota, and cellular and molecular profiles of tissue biopsies are all being used to create a treatment response model. Any predictive biomarkers identified will be validated against datasets from larger studies. Another clinical trial led by Dr. Hudesman is evaluating the benefit of higher doses of ustekinumab early in therapy for patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease. “The standard dosing is not going to work for all our patients. And if we optimize drugs earlier on, we’re more likely to improve clinical remission rates,” he says. Parallel research from Jordan E. Axelrad, MD, MPH , director of clinical and translational research at the IBD Center, and national collaborators is supporting the use of these effective agents in an expanded patient population. Their initial analysis of data from the prospective SAPPHIRE registry indicates that tofacitinib, ustekinumab and other newer immunosuppressive agents are not associated with new or recurrent cancer in patients with IBD and a recent history of cancer. Predicting Risk Placing focus on IBD in older adults, , an assistant professor of medicine and population health, has found that antibiotic use is a risk factor for adult-onset disease . Older adults represent one of the fastest growing populations of patients developing IBD, with upwards of 15 percent of new cases occurring in individuals over 60. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2022, Dr. Faye and his research team analyzed data from over 2.3 million individuals aged 60 to 90, finding that a single course of antibiotics raises the risk of developing IBD by 27 percent, while five or more courses raises the risk by 236 percent. Almost all antibiotic classes were associated with the development of IBD, but those used for gastrointestinal pathogens were associated with the highest risk. Ongoing research from Dr. Faye and colleagues, including gastroenterologist , is defining sarcopenia as a risk factor for IBD, while Dr. Axelrad recently received funding from the NIH to continue his research on enteric pathogens as environmental factors in IBD Getting Ahead of Complications Investigators at NYU Langone are also researching ways to improve the success of disease-related surgery , which remains an essential treatment option for IBD, and better address extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease A dual-center study between NYU Langone and Cleveland Clinic led by Dr. Axelrad has determined anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents to be effective at reducing postoperative recurrence of Crohn’s disease when given within four weeks of ileocecal resection. And work led by Simon J. Hong, MD , in collaboration with colleagues within rheumatology finds that two surveys validated for screening joint symptoms are effective at flagging IBD-related arthritis “Across our studies, we are furthering our understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD and its extra-intestinal manifestations, personalizing both medical and surgical treatment, with the hope to bring new insights into prevention of disease,” Dr. Hudesman says. David P. Hudesman, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and co-director of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center. His research interests include uncovering new treatment options for people with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, development of biomarkers to predict response to therapy, and optimization of inflammatory bowel disease therapies. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Practitioner injuries are widespread and early onset—new guidelines aim to stem the problem. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A model incorporating lifestyle, genetic factors could pinpoint high-risk young adults. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Outpatient procedure helps more patients avoid esophagectomy. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Minimally invasive paraesophageal hernia repair resolved anemia as well as debilitating vomiting, retching. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates As revised guidelines widen eligibility, new tools could help overcome barriers to colon cancer screening. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment An innovative care model and emerging research present opportunities to reduce the burden of severe IBD complications. Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Visual brain signals were restored to near-normal levels in a murine model. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Despite early skepticism, the pioneering treatment amasses a record of compelling cases. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid New faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health aim to redress longstanding inequities across the specialty. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery Micro-invasive glaucoma surgeries (MIGS) are widely used today by both glaucoma specialists and comprehensive ophthalmologists. They are safer than traditional glaucoma surgeries such as trabeculectomy and drainage implants and provide modest intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction. However, while many MIGS procedures try to help improve the eye’s physiologic outflow, glaucoma is not a simple problem, says Joseph F. Panarelli, MD , director of glaucoma services in the “We now have a full spectrum of glaucoma treatments. The question is how to identify the best treatments for our patients who have different levels of disease severity, different ages, and different types or pathology of glaucoma.” “The more advanced the disease, the more likely it is that the entire outflow system has pathology. That’s the reason MIGS do not work for all of our patients,” he says, adding that “trabeculectomy and tube shunt surgery are more prone to complications. Patients who are seeing fine are not always willing or excited to have a surgery where they might lose vision.” Exploring Hybrid Options Between MIGS and traditional surgery, there is MIBS (micro-invasive bleb surgery), a hybrid of the two. The procedure involves placing a microshunt into the eye, but instead of draining into a large reservoir for outflow, it feeds to a point just outside the eye and forms a diffuse bleb. “These tubes are much tinier than the tubes we use for traditional glaucoma drainage device placement and limit how quickly the fluid exits the eye. This helps reduce the chance that the pressure will drop too low,” Dr. Panarelli explains. Dr. Panarelli is senior author of a that compares the effectiveness and safety of microshunting versus trabeculectomy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The two-year, prospective, randomized study was conducted at 29 sites. Eligible patients had mild-to-severe POAG inadequately controlled on maximum tolerated medical therapy. Although reductions in IOP and glaucoma medications over one year were observed in both groups, the trabeculectomy group had a lower mean IOP on fewer medications. Dr. Panarelli notes that “both procedures did very well and for surgeons who do not routinely perform trabeculectomy, the microshunt may provide solid IOP reproduction with more reproducible results.” Dr. Panarelli was also senior author on a retrospective study that evaluated the bleb morphology and outcomes of eyes implanted with the XEN® Gel Stent (Allergan). This MIBS device resulted in significant IOP lowering along with a low rate of postoperative bleb needling. “My patient population tends to have more advanced disease, so I do more traditional surgeries,” he says. “The key to these micro-invasive bleb surgeries is that we can probably use them earlier in the disease course before someone has lost a significant amount of vision.” Balancing Next-Generation and Current Approaches Also an innovator in robotic eye surgery, Dr. Panarelli hopes one day to deliver stem cell treatment to the trabecular meshwork and gene therapy beneath the retina, combining robotic assistance with intraoperative optical coherence tomography and other advanced imaging. Yet, he believes trainees should be taught traditional surgical methods such as trabeculectomy. “We need to keep innovating but stay proficient in the traditional surgeries. Glaucoma is not easily managed with a single treatment option,” Dr. Panarelli says. Disclosure: Dr. Panarelli is a consultant for Santen Inc., Allergan, New World Medical, Glaukos, CorneaGen, and Aerie Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Joseph F. Panarelli, MD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and director of glaucoma services. His research focuses on evaluating and developing new surgical techniques, including micro-invasive glaucoma surgery devices, and comparing outcomes of glaucoma procedures in adult and pediatric populations. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Keratoconus is one of the leading indications worldwide for corneal transplant. As the disease progresses, the cornea undergoes progressive thinning and begins to protrude, causing irregular astigmatism and gradual vision loss. People tend to develop keratoconus in their teens and 20s after the visual system has matured, says Ann Ostrovsky, MD , a clinical assistant professor of ophthalmology and director of the keratoconus program at NYU Langone Health. “Visual rehabilitation in patients with keratoconus should be possible in most cases since the visual potential of the eye is normal.” Dr. Ostrovsky and colleagues are advancing keratoconus treatment using topography and tomography imaging modalities to diagnose early-stage disease, as well as collagen cross-linking to halt progression. “Rigid contact lenses can improve vision, but do not prevent disease progression. Advanced disease can result in corneal scarring and frequently requires transplant for visual rehabilitation,” she says. , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology, is a cell biologist researching the pathogenesis of the disease . Together, Dr. Ostrovsky and Dr. Chakravarti are collaborating to understand the fundamental causes of keratoconus. “We have families where several members are affected,” Dr. Ostrovsky says. “Those with certain systemic conditions, such as Down syndrome, connective tissue disorders like Marfan syndrome, and collagen vascular diseases, have a higher prevalence. Additionally, severe ocular allergy, blepharitis, and forceful rubbing can aggravate this condition.” Investigating Genetic Components Dr. Chakravarti began researching keratoconus because of her interest in extracellular matrix (ECM)–related pathologies of the cornea . “Initially, we were just looking for ECM changes and their effects on cell-to-cell communication. But a strong genetic component in keratoconus is undeniable,” she says. “It is increasingly being appreciated that in a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes, like Fuchs dystrophy . Thus, studying keratoconus requires multiple approaches,” Dr. Chakravarti adds. “In a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes.” In a DNA sequencing study of 11 families affected by keratoconus , the researchers found potentially pathogenic variants in 8 different genes. Some were related to ECM integrity, which confirmed the investigators’ suspicion that ECM genes are important in keratoconus. Patients with keratoconus with no obvious family history are also being recruited at the for genomic studies. The researchers hope the pathogenic changes unraveled from discarded corneal tissues will provide clues about candidate genes in the isolated keratoconus patients. Focus on Oxidative Stress Dr. Chakravarti and colleagues have performed RNA sequencing proteomic studies of discarded corneas from patients with keratoconus, identifying potential biomarkers and decreased antioxidant responses. “We think that unresolved oxidative stress impacts structural proteins that protect the eye’s integrity,” Dr. Chakravarti says. She points to the potential diagnostic value of this discovery in keratoconus screening. “We realized that some of the oxidative stress byproducts show up in the tears; we are hoping to develop these as biomarkers or predictors of disease severity.” There is utility in understanding the genetics, she adds, not only for stratifying patient risk, but in clinical scenarios. “For example, people who have a genetic predisposition to keratoconus should carefully be counseled about LASIK surgery because their corneas may already have an underlying structural weakness.” Promoting Early Diagnosis Dr. Ostrovsky is focused on raising awareness among pediatricians and eye care specialists to promote early diagnosis of keratoconus, especially in susceptible populations. To further this effort, she helped to establish NYU Langone’s multidisciplinary Down Syndrome Program , which includes ophthalmology. recent article for the American Academy of Pediatrics , Dr. Ostrovsky outlines the hurdles in diagnosing disease in patients with Down syndrome. “These cases can be quite challenging because children with Down syndrome frequently don’t complain of vision loss,” she says, “and vision screening as well as obtaining quality tomography images are challenging due to patient cooperation.” “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist.” As for the future, Dr. Ostrovsky says there is still work to do regarding screening paradigms for eye care professionals. “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist. This is where biomarkers can also be helpful.” Ann Ostrovsky, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of the keratoconus program in the Department of Ophthalmology. She is also co-founder of the Down Syndrome Program, part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and the associate clinical director for ambulatory care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Her research interests include Sjogren’s syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and keratoconus. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol . 2021 Jul 19;7:1327-1336. While there is growing interest among both patients and clinicians in chemoprevention for colorectal neoplasia, currently only aspirin or metformin should be considered, according to expert recommendations commissioned by the American Gastroenterological Association. “Aspirin has the best evidence for colorectal neoplasia, but it’s not for everyone,” says gastroenterologist Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH , first author on the article. “There is less evidence for metformin than for aspirin. But for people with type 2 diabetes, metformin should be considered.” Best Practice Advice With a slew of chemoprevention agents under various stages of investigation, Dr. Liang and colleagues, including , the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, sought to provide an updated review of well-studied medications that have been evaluated in clinical trials. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer,” Dr. Shaukat says. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer.” While they report strong evidence for the use of low-dose aspirin to reduce colorectal cancer incidence and mortality, it should only be considered for patients younger than 70 who are at risk of cardiovascular disease, and its benefit must be weighed against the risk of bleeding. “If someone shouldn’t be taking aspirin for heart disease prevention, it isn’t recommended that they take it for colorectal neoplasia prevention,” says Dr. Liang. In contrast, no clear chemopreventive benefit can be found for calcium, vitamin D, folic acid, or statins. Non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are not recommended due to the high risk of adverse events. Navigating Patient Conversations Medications that lower cancer risk have great appeal from a patient perspective, Dr. Liang explains. But in some cases, patients may take medications for chemoprevention that have not been prescribed. As the new recommendations point out, this may be more harmful than helpful. “When physicians talk to their patients, it’s useful to ask if they are taking anything on their own,” says Dr. Liang. “We hope this can serve as a resource as they navigate those conversations.” Epidemiology, Gastroenterology Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. He is a health services researcher and epidemiologist with a primary focus in colorectal cancer prevention. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity The neovascularization caused by retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) can sometimes be halted with drugs or laser therapy, preventing the negative sequelae and late-stage disease that can require vitrectomy surgery. In premature infants, this surgery requires precision and specialized expertise. Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD , an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology, treats both children and adults with retinal disease. However, it is her expertise in ROP surgery that attracts patients from across the New York region. “Kids are not little adults; their eyes haven’t yet developed completely, so special considerations need to be made for surgeries unique to this group,” says Dr. Dedania. “Some of these babies are under three pounds.” More than 40 percent of at-risk premature infants develop some stage of ROP , with approximately 12.5 percent developing severe ROP. “The median age for treatment-requiring ROP is 36 to 41 weeks,” says Dr. Dedania. “Now, we’re able to save more 22- and 23-weekers. The younger the baby, the greater the risk for developing ROP.” Imaging Infant Eyes Most ROP regresses without treatment, yet for those cases that do progress, it can be difficult to predict which babies will require treatment and when. Dr. Dedania is involved in several initiatives aimed at early prediction and diagnosis of advanced disease. “We need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment.” “We have advanced technology—including OCT [optical coherence tomography] and OCT angiography—that we use in diabetic retinopathy and other retinal diseases,” she says. “While we have some of this available for use in children, we have to develop a better understanding of how this technology can offer predictive data in ROP.” In collaboration with colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Laboratory , Dr. Dedania is participating in a single-center study to characterize and evaluate retinal pathologies using OCT “Additionally, we need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment,” she says. The Role of Biomarkers Dr. Dedania says biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity are needed to predict ROP. “We use biomarkers from tears and blood—less-invasive means—to obtain the metrics. But we really need to understand how to utilize this information,” she notes. To help address this question, Dr. Dedania and colleagues have implemented a vitreous biorepository at NYU Langone Health. “This is what we want to find out: are there vitreous biomarkers predictive of ROP and how do those correlate with biomarkers from blood or tears?” Improving Access to Care Lastly, Dr. Dedania believes telemedicine is an essential part of ensuring that all premature babies get screened for high-risk ROP. She participated in research that evaluated the feasibility of screening using a novel smartphone-based fundus photography device , and recently completed a study evaluating ROP screening patterns during the pandemic. “Especially in resource-poor communities, we need to ensure that all premature infants get proper ROP screening and have access to the interventions that can prevent blindness,” she said. Retinal Opthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. Her clinical and research focus is on developing new ways to predict, diagnose and treat diseases of the retina. In addition to individualized physical therapy programs at , we can bring our expertise directly to your entire company. Our licensed physical therapists are available to work on-site to provide in-depth rehabilitative services. We have served a long list of clients, ranging from utility companies to financial institutions. Our physical therapists have advanced degrees in orthopedics, ergonomics, and