the 5 winning programsand the 10 special honorees selected in 1996.Italso outlines applicant programs in 15 self selected categories:business participation, cityor county participation, dental health,farmworker health, health professions programparticipation, HIV/AIDS, the health of thehomeless, hospital participation, low budgetprograms, managed care, maternal and childhealth, religious organization participation,rural health, state coordination, and substanceabuse prevention and treatment. Eachdescription includes the program name, address,telephone and fax numbers, contact person, andinformation about the services provided,populations served, linkages to othercommunity organizations, and outcomes. Thetwo appendixes contain an order form foradditional information and a request form forpresentations or workshops. (HE9700745)035Models That Work: The 1995Compendium of Innovative PrimaryHealth Care Programs for Underservedand Vulnerable Populations.Form:Directory.Corparte Author: US Department of Healthand Human Services, Health Resources andServices Administration, Bureau of PrimaryHealth Care.Source:Bethesda, MD, US Department ofHealth and Human Services, Public HealthService, Health Resources and ServicesAdministration, Bureau of Primary Health Care,177 p., 1995.Abstract: The purpose of the Models ThatWork campaign was to disseminate informationon successful primary care models and theirstrategies for serving vulnerable andunderserved populations.It is hoped that themodels may serve as guides for developing newpartnerships between communities, academia,and public and private sector organizations.The models can also be used for developingmanaged care arrangements, maximizingresources through partnerships, assuring clinicalquality improvement in health care services,establishing funding methodologies, andintegrating underserved and vulnerablepopulations into mainstream systems of care.More than 30 of the model programs use theCHA strategy. The 1995 directory served as oneof the mechanisms for disseminating this23The Community Health Advisor/Workerinformation. The profiled models representmanaged care organizations, insurers, socialservice agencies, public health agencies, andthe religious community. The profiles include( 1 ) the program name and contact, (2) servicesprovided, (3) populations served, (4) linkages orcollaborations, and (5) a summary of theprogram. (HE9700601)036National Community Health AdvisorStudy: Weaving the FutureForm: Report and Executive Summary.Authors:Rosenthal, E.L.; Wiggins, N.;Brownstein, J.N.; Meister, J.; Rael, R.;Guernsey de Zapien, J.; Ingram, M; Borbon, A;Johnson, S.; Koch, E.Source:University of Arizona, 1998.Abstract: This study examines the role ofcommunity health advisors (CHA's) in theUnited States.Data collection includedqualitative and quantitative findings from sitevisits, interviews, focus groups, discussiongroups, and a national survey of CHA's andCHA supervisors. The study explored fourbroad issues:(1) the development of CHA corerole and job competency definitions andtraining curriculum; (2) evaluation strategies forCHA programs; (3) CHA career and fieldadvancement; and (4) the integration of CHA'swithin the changing health care system,including managed care environments.According to the authors, a common definitionof CHA roles and competencies will betterintegrate CHA's into the health care continuum.To aid CHA programs, the study developed anevaluation framework that includes individual,family, and CHA documentation of changes;CHA program administration andimplementation issues, such as the developmentof a strategic plan; documentation of changes atthe community level; and interprogram andnational changes in the CHA programenvironment. Career advancement strategiesfor CHA's include the development ofopportunities training and curriculum standards,development of program protocols in areas suchas hiring and supervision, and development ofinterprogram and CHA networks and leadershipdevelopment. CHA's must address newproblems created by the changing health caresystem and the growth of managed careorganizations.(HE9800121)037Nonobtrusive Interview Technique forDrug Abuse Program Follow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sloan, J.L.; Lipscomb, W.R.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.ll(4):368 370, Winter 1975.Abstract: The authors describe a study of theeffectiveness of a nonobtrusive interviewtechnique for drug abuse program follow up.Researchers interviewed 65 former clients in anoutpatient drug abuse treatment program. Theinterview was designed to appear to a thirdparty as a casual street corner conversation.The researchers trained paraprofessional streetworkers who were known and trusted in thecommunity as interviewers. Using role playing,the street workers then used a mnemonic deviceto guide the conversation over 46 items of moreor less factual information. The interviewersrecorded the information later from memory ona form. The number of items associated witheach subscale was generally limited to seven tonine unrelated bits of information. Amnemonic device was used to cue recall of the10 subscales:(1) housing, (2) relationship withothers (not spouse), (3) legal status, (4) druguse, (5) educational status, (6) referral source,(7) relationship with spouse and sexualfunctioning, (8) health, (9) income, and (10)24Applications and Methodsplans for the future. Researchers attached Likertratings to items of factual information to obtaina measure of the interviewer's estimate of thesignificance of each fact on the client's totalfunctioning. The Likert rating procedure wasstandardized by having the interviewer ratevideotaped interviews until their ratings agreedwith a key at 80 percent identical responses forthree consecutive interviews. An alphacoefficient reliability estimate of the Likertratings on the 65 former clients was 0.923.Analysis of variance revealed no significantdifference in the mean of total Likert pointsascribed to clients over interviewers. A plot ofthe summed ratings revealed a bimodal patternof ratings that indicates a useful discriminationamong clients in terms of functioning.In theview of the interviewers, a person's plans forthe future, current income, general health, anddrug use pattern were more important to theinterviewer's estimate of the client's generalfunctioning than were other measures. In theauthors' view, the most significant aspect of thestudy involves the utility of the data gatheringtechnique.2 figures, 3 references.(HE9700344)038Nurses' Role in Primary Health Care.Form:Journal article.Authors:Bless, C; Murphy, D.; Vinson, N.Source: Nursing and Health Care Perspectiveson Community.16(2):70 76, March April1995.Abstract: The University of Illinois College ofNursing launched the Primary Health Care inUrban Communities project to address theneeds of two low income urban communities,one mostly African American and the otherlargely Hispanic. Both communities werecharacterized by high crime rates and below average health, social, and economic indicators.The project staff teamed a public health nursewith four or five community residents to form anurse advocate team in each of the twocommunities. The teams worked with theircommunities' health and social serviceagencies, schools, churches, businesses, localgovernment, families, friends, and neighbors todefine and address health problems. Theirservices were available to all community,residents. The primary strategy of the nurse advocate teams was to provide education onissues identified by residents and to enhanceresidents' ability to improve their own healthand that of their neighbors. The public healthnurse used the community health assessmentprocess to help the advocates and othercommunity residents articulate their concernsand then helped them formulate a communityhealth diagnosis. The assessment process wasan early collaborative effort in which theadvocates participated fully, helping to compilea directory of community health and socialservice resources. Nurse advocate teamstestified at community and county levelmeetings on health reform, assistedorganizations that advocated on behalf of thehealth needs of immigrants and the homeless;and served on the development committees ofcommunity groups and organizations. Many ofthe teams' community organizing effortsfocused on issues of violence. The roles of theadvocates evolved over the course of theproject, as did the individual leadership abilitiesand goals of the team. The authors recommendthat the Public Health Nursing Sciencesprogram equip nurses for the expanded rolesrequired in community based public healthsettings. By expanding to include communityparticipation, nursing will promote thealternative models of health care needed toaddress the most difficult public health issues.6 references. (HE9600953)25The Community Health Advisor/Worker039Parents of Children With RheumaticDisease as Peer Counselors.Form:Journal article.Authors: DeNardo, B.A.; Stebulis, J.A.;Tucker, L.B.; Schaller, J.G.Source:Arthritis Care and Research.8(2):120 125, June 1995.Abstract: Between October 1990 andSeptember 1992, seven pediatric rheumatologycenters in New England implemented a parentconsultant program to promote active familyinvolvement in the health care process andprovide peer support, education, and training toparents of children with rheumatic diseases.Parents of children with rheumatic diseasesassessed the efficacy of medical treatments,identified areas of need that had not beenaddressed, performed physical and occupationaltherapy at home, located and coordinated healthcare, and performed other tasks. The programrecruited parents of the children receiving careat the center to work part time in the clinics asparent consultants who are active members ofthe interdisciplinary team responsible forcarrying out specific aspects of patient care.Parent consultant training included bothdidactic sessions on a multicenter level andclinical training within the individual clinic.A Parent Consultant Orientation Manual,developed by project staff, provided writtenpractice guidelines. Annual questionnaires toparent consultants, clinical supervisors, andcenter directors evaluated satisfaction with theprogram. Any member of the health care teamcould refer a family to a parent consultant, whoprovided family education and technicalassistance on specific nonmedical issues such asrecord keeping, health care financing, andeducational issues and rights.Parentsresponding to an anonymous, mail responsequestionnaire designed to evaluate programeffect indicated that their interaction with theparent consultant was very helpful (59 percent)or somewhat helpful (28 percent). The majorityof respondents (98 percent) stated they wouldrecommend that other parents meet with theparent consultant. Barriers to implementing theprogram on an ongoing basis included difficultyin recruiting and retaining parent consultants.3 tables,1 figure, 14 references. (HE9700100)040Physician Assistant Training for NativeAlaskan Community Health Aides:The MEDEX Northwest Experience.Form:Journal article.Authors: Hummel, J.; Cortte, R.; Ballweg, R.;Larson, E.Source: Alaska Medicine. 36(4): 183 1 88,October December 1994.Abstract:Researchers assessed the outcome oftraining Native Alaskan health workers asphysician assistants, specifically whether NativeAlaskan graduates were working in settings thatserve Alaska Natives. From 1980 through1990, 16 Native Alaskan Community HealthAides and 21 non Native Alaskan aides beganphysician assistant training at MEDEXNorthwest at the University of Washington.The backgrounds, educational experiences, anddeployment locations of Native and non NativeAlaskans accepted for training were comparedusing MEDEX Northwest student records. The1991 graduate survey was used to comparedifferences in practice setting, specialty, andsalary between Native and non Nativegraduates working in Alaska in 1991.Resultsindicated that all of the non Natives and 81percent of the Natives completed the program.Of those completing the program, 100 percentof the Natives returned to Alaska, where 91percent worked as primary care physicianassistants in clinics serving predominantly26Applications and MethodsNative Alaskan communities. By comparison,78 percent of the non Native graduates returnedto Alaska to work as physician assistants, 60percent of them in primary care and 15 percentin predominantly Native Alaskan communities.There were no significant differences in salaryor benefits between Native and non Nativegraduates.Researchers conclude that physicianassistant training for entry level health workersis a viable strategy for increasing the number ofunderrepresented minorities in the healthprofessions. The Native Alaskan graduates ofMEDEX Northwest are returning tocommunities where they serve people both ashealth care providers and as professional rolemodels.3 figures, 4 tables, 16 references.(HE9700070)041Procedure for the Selection ofNonprofessional Workers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Goldstein, A.D.; Camp, B.W.Source: HSMHA Health Reports. 86(6):533 536, June 1971.Abstract: Where the needs are highest formore economical health, education, and welfareservices, many agencies are trying to useunskilled community members to perform moreeconomically some of the tasks that arenormally the responsibility of professionals.Itis not easy to select individuals for the role ofcommunity worker; during the initial years ofhiring and training unskilled workers, manyfrustrations have resulted from the overridinggoal of providing jobs for needy people withtoo little regard for the needs and abilities ofthose selected.Consequently, the rate at whichmany nonprofessional employees resign isnearly 100 percent in many localities. To helpagencies avoid some of these difficulties,researchers developed a selection procedure toincrease the probability ofjob success in termsof performance and work longevity. Theprocedure permits evaluation of personal factorsthat had been previously associated with failureon the job, such as insufficient knowledge aboutthe work requirements, lack of interest ormotivation for working with the povertypopulation, lack of a basic knowledge ofEnglish, or disruptive home situations. Theprocedure included (1) an orientation to thework, (2) a structured group interview toevaluate motivation and capability for workingwith a poverty level population, (3) group teststo establish whether the applicants had theprerequisite skills needed for communicationand training, and (4) a structured individualinterview to evaluate personal factors related towork stability.In the initial application of thisselection procedure, 5 of 15 applicants, allmembers of minority groups who lived in theneighborhood in which they would serve, wereaccepted. All selected workers using theprocedure have received excellent or goodevaluation ratings from supervisors.1 figure,4 references. (HE9700326)042Recruitment and Training Issues FromSelected Lay Health Advisor ProgramsAmong African Americans: A 20 YearPerspective.Form:Journal article.Authors: Jackson, E.J.; Parks, C.P.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):41 8 431, August 1997.Abstract: The use of lay health advisors(LHA's) to address the health disparity amongAfrican Americans is well documented andconsidered a culturally appropriate model ofcommunity health promotion. Importantcomponents of the LHA model includeidentification, recruitment, and training of27The Community Health Advisor/WorkerLHA's. The Community Health EducationProgram at the Duke University Medical Centerin North Carolina provided one of the originalframeworks for LHA recruitment and training,and its model serves as a useful guide forexploring the evolution of recruitment andtraining procedures in LHA programs forAfrican Americans.In selecting LHA's, orindigenous natural helpers, the model's maincriterion included the identification of personswho embody the combination of social,cultural, ethnic, environmental, andcommunication values, norms, and beliefs ofthe target population. The authors describeeight resources for LHA identification: (1) areaorganizations, (2) people in key organizations,(3) services with outreach workers in the area,(4) program coordinators, (5) previously trainedlay health advisors, (6) volunteers, (7) multiplelisting of a name in a community survey, and(8) network search.In conducting a literaturereview on recruitment methods used in AfricanAmerican LHA programs during 1970 1995,the authors found 48 different methods.Successful recruitment methods include (1)community wide surveys, (2) ethnicorganization, recommendations, (3) communityor institutional leader participation, (4)inclusion of various community organizingtechniques, (5) use of a well established andwell connected African American community based organization, and (6) hiring of a sociallyactive African American community member.Recommendations for health educators seekingto recruit and train African Americans for LHAprograms include (1) acknowledging the skillsof the LHA's and not employing recruitmentand training techniques that disrupt theirexisting roles in the community; (2)establishing protocols from a perspective ofenhancing, expanding, and supporting thehelping skills of LHA's; and (3) relying on thecollective wisdom of the community to identify,recruit, select, and train LHA's.2 tables, 47references. (HE9701116)043Role and Training of Health EducationAides.Form:Journal article.Authors:Knittel, R.E.; Child, R.C.;Hobgood, J.Source: American Journal of Public Health.61(8):1571 1580, August 1971.Abstract: The role of nonprofessionals hasincreased considerably with the advent ofgovernment financed programs to aiddisadvantaged persons and those with lowincomes. Nonprofessionals have worked in thepublic health field for years, and the use of suchpersonnel in overseas programs is welldocumented.In a training project for healtheducation aides (HEA) in Chicago, Illinois, 20persons with an educational level equivalent tohigh school were selected on the basis of theirinterest in the problems of ghetto residents.Many of the participants were former residentsof slum areas who were motivated to helpchange the conditions there. The idea that themain task of the HEA's was to motivate toresidents and change their attitudes aboutenvironmental sanitation practices. The projectprovided the aides (1) substantive training in thetechnical aspects of rodent and vermin control,(2) understanding of the motivational factorsaffecting the residents of the slum areas, (3)skills and understanding in the change ofattitudes of slum residents towards theirenvironment, and (4) skill in face to facecontact with slum residents on a personal basis.The authors evaluated the program 16 monthsafter its inception and found that the aidesworked effectively. The HEA's agreed that shorttraining periods of about 2 weeks, followed by28Applications and Methodsfield experiences, were the best form oftraining.23 references. (HE9700307)044Role of the Community Health Aide inRural Alaska.Form:Journal article.Authors:Caldera, D.; Daniels, S.;Ashenfelter, W.Source:Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 157 160, 1991.Abstract: The Community Health AideProgram is a system of health care that hasevolved over the last 40 years to meet theprimary health care needs of Alaska Nativesliving in small remote communities up to1 ,300miles from the nearest professional health carefacility. The program is administered by Nativenonprofit corporations that contract with thefederal government to provide health and socialservices to the communities in their region.Community health aides (CHA's) are the soleresident health care providers in thecommunities they serve. They are able toprovide complete basic primary health care for85 to 90 percent of the patients seeking servicesat the clinic. CHA duties and responsibilitiesinclude acute and emergency care, healthsurveillance and preventive services, andadministrative and community health services.The areas in which CHA's perform best areacute care for common ailments and emergencycare; they are less successful or minimallyinvolved in the provision of preventive care,health surveillance, health education, clinicadministration, and outreach programs.Because 96 percent of the CHA's are women,and the Alaska Native culture is male and elder dominated, with traditional roles for womencentered in the home, CHA's face manychallenges to their tasks of providing primaryhealth care to their communities' residents.CHA supervisors, consulting physicians,conferences, and teleconferencing opportunitiesprovide support to the CHA. Programimprovements, including implementing newwork schedules designed to decrease CHAstress and burnout, raising salaries, andimproving training, were made possible througha 200 percent increase in funding between 1989and 1991.5 references. (HE9700301)045Role of Volunteers: What Educators Needto Know.Form:Newsletter article.Author:Chai, K.T.Source: Nursing Staff Development Insider.4(3): 1, 8, May June 1995.Abstract: The author discusses what volunteereducators should know about their volunteers.The1 995 human resource standards developedby the Joint Commission on Accreditation ofHealthcare Organizations require that each staffmember's capability to perform his or herspecific job responsibilities be assessed throughthe completion of an orientation process. Therole of the volunteer is as varied as the types oforganizations. Some perform direct patient careincluding feeding and transporting patients.Inother organizations, volunteers provideinformation and clerical support and transportspecimens. When organizations define the roleof volunteers, they should include the elementsof job training and assessment required to meetexpectations of the position. (HE9700463)29The Community Health Advisor/Worker046Starting Point: Empowering Communitiesto Improve Health: A Manual for TrainingHealth Promoters in CongregationalCoalitions.Form: Manual.Corporate Author:Carter Center, InterfaithHealth Program.Source:Atlanta, GA, Carter Center, InterfaithHealth Program, 52 p., 1997.Abstract: This manual was designed to helpcongregations implement efforts to teach layvolunteers to become health promoters.In thisrole, trained volunteers identify the health needsof their individual congregations and work tofind appropriate resources to meet them. Themanual is divided into five sections:(1) TheAtlanta Model for Lay Health Ministrydescribes the development of the AtlantaInterfaith Health Program, a congregation based health promotion project using healthworkers and volunteers; (2) TrainingCongregational Health Promoters (CHP's)describes the participatory learning approachand the role of the trainer or facilitator, andoutlines the CHP training sessions used in theAtlanta coalitions; (3) Development of the CHPTraining Program describes the coordination ofthe training program, the selection of a traineror facilitator, the recruitment of lay volunteersfor training as CHP's, the location of training,the development of a training budget, and theplanning of a commissioning service; (4) Afterthe Training: Follow Through discusses thedevelopment of a support system for CHP's andthe training of additional CHP's; and (5)Evaluation describes the continuing evaluationof the Atlanta program and the CHP TrainingProgram. Appendixes include a list ofresources for training, a covenant ofcongregational participation, ideas for meetingintroductions, learning activities, organizationand listening activities, health related activities,and evaluation tools. (HE9700736)047Three Perspectives on Community HealthAides: Surveys of Health Aides,Consumers and Providers in WesternAlaska.Form:Journal article.Authors: Quick, R.; Bashshur, R.Source: Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 161 165, 1991.Abstract: The Yukon Kuskokwim HealthCorporation conducted surveys of health aides,consumers and providers of health services; onesurvey objective was to assess the performanceof community health aides (CHA's). All non CHA providers received a providerquestionnaire; their response rate was 87.8percent. All CHA's were mailed a CHAquestionnaire, with telephone follow up; theirresponse rate was 96.7 percent. The consumersurvey used a two stage probability sample.Trained interviewers surveyed households,achieving a completion rate of 74.7 percent(473 of 633 households). The survey resultsshowed that the majority of non CHA providerswere not Alaskan Natives and were marriedfemales over age 34 years, most householdswere headed by Eskimo males over age 39years, and the majority of CHA's were marriedfemales over age 24 years, with annual familyincomes of less than $10,000 and with childcare responsibilities. Most non CHA providersrated the services provided by the CHA's asexcellent or good (74 percent). According toconsumers, the quality of care provided byCHA's compared favorably to the quality ofcare of other providers. As income andeducation levels increased among theconsumers, use of CHA's as a source of generalhealth information decreased. The majority of30Applications and MethodsCHA's said their job was stressful. The moststressful aspects they cited were inadequate pay,dealing with emergencies, and patientsdemanding treatment. The authors concludedthat because high stress and low pay havecontributed to high CHA turnover, increasingpay and reducing stress would appear to bepotential solutions to the CHA turnoverproblem. Improving retention of CHA's wouldimprove village health care. 4 tables,13 references. (HE9700098)048Use of Aides in Preventing an Outbreak ofDiphtheria in a Housing Project.Form:Journal article.Author: Branch, G.B.Source: HSMHA Health Reports.86(1):92 96, January 1971.Abstract: A case of diphtheria gravis reportedin a 6 year old boy living in a Los Angeleshousing project in November 1964 aroused fearof an epidemic of the unusually virulentdisease, which is associated with high mortalityrates. As soon as the empirical diagnosis ofdiphtheria was made, the district health officermet with the manager of the housing project,the district health educator, and the director ofthe community center. The housing project had3,100 residents living in close proximity; 1,200of them were children under age 6 years; and 10families shared a yard and play area.It wasdecided that an all out effort would be made toimmunize at least 80 percent of the children inthe housing project who were under age 6 years(all the older children were offered diphtheria tetanus toxoid immunizations at school). Healthdepartment representatives sponsored threeclinics in the area at1 month intervals,furnished all immunization materials, andtaught neighborhood aides about thecommunicability of diphtheria and its control.Neighborhood aides visited each family thathad been exposed to the disease and explainedthe nature of diphtheria, and told them that aphysician and nurse would come to their hometo take specimens and give injections. A publichealth nurse obtained nose and throatspecimens from all exposed people; 50 personshad positive cultures. Two aides, all membersof the community center that assigned them tothe task of helping to prevent the spread ofdiphtheria, worked together in 10 units with thehousing project. The district health educatorand the neighborhood aides met at the housingproject to plan the immunization clinics andwere involved in all areas of the program. Theaides (1) suggested clinic sites and times ofservice based on their knowledge of communitypreferences; (2) designed forms and flyers; (3)selected health education materials; (4) madedoor to door contacts with project residents; (5)recruited one person in each block (blockcaptains) to remind parents the day before theclinic was scheduled; (6) taught the blockcaptains about diphtheria and interviewing; and(7) compiled data on who had received first,second, and third injections or booster shots andwho needed further shots. At the end of theseries of three clinics, 963 children under age 6years (80.3 percent) and 119 other persons hadreceived the 3 immunizations that resulted inadequate protection.2 tables, 4 references.(HE9700343)31The Community Health Advisor/Worker049VISTA Means Vision: Three WinningStrategies for Training Diverse OutreachWorkers.Form: Manual.Authors: Morrow, G.; Andersen, R.; Tripp, M.Source:Austin, TX, Texas Department ofHealth, 24 p., n.d.Abstract: VISTA Means Vision: ThreeWinning Strategies for Training DiverseOutreach Workers is a manual published by theTexas Department of Health. Functioning as layhealth educators, 300 Volunteers in Service toAmerica (VISTAs) in the Texas VISTA HealthCorps currently provide effective outreach incommunities across the state. During the first 2years of the corps, three successful trainingstrategies have emerged. The first strategyinvolves collaboration. Three programs of theTexas Department of Health Immunizations, theSpecial Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,and Children (WIC), and the Early and PeriodicScreening, Diagnosis, and Treatment Program(EPSDT) forged a partnership to create andsustain the Texas VISTA Health Corps. Thetraining process encourages Texas VISTAHealth Corps workers to replicate thiscollaboration in their own activities in order toachieve a unified approach to outreach forpreventive health care services. The secondstrategy involves diversity. VISTAs in Texasare drawn from different backgrounds and havea variety of abilities, perspectives, languages,and levels of literacy. The materials are easy toread, simple to use, and incorporate principlesof experiential and adult learning. The thirdstrategy is empowerment. During orientation,Texas VISTAs are guided through exercises thatencourage them to accentuate their strengths,contribute to a team, and develop synergy. Thismanual highlights training techniques,materials, and manuals that have beendeveloped for, and evaluated by, members ofthe Texas VISTA Health Corps.It includes ananalysis of a training tool designed to empowerTexas VISTAs to make a contribution toimproving access to preventive health servicesfor women and children and to realizeimportant personal gains through the process.(HE9700468)050Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module I:Introduction to Health and Wellness.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 82, 1997.Abstract: This guide is the first in a series ofsix modules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The sixmodules are Introduction to Health andWellness, Cancer, Disease and Stroke, Diabetes,Healthy Lifestyles, and Aging. The training isbased on the shared learning experience model,requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.Module I consists of four units, which can betaught in two and a half days. Unit 1,Introduction to the Training, gives the trainer anopportunity to introduce individual program32Applications and Methodsgoals and objectives, and gives the trainees anopportunity to try their new roles as healthadvisors.Unit 2, Understanding Wellness,offers relaxation and stress reducing techniquesto the advisors.In Unit 3, CommunicationSkills for Health Advisors, trainees learn thebasics of communication skills needed to gainthe trust and acceptance of those they help.Unit 4, Playing an Active Role in Your HealthCare focuses on negotiating the health caresystem, including self advocacy.(HE9800122)051Women's Wellness Sourcebook. Module V:Health Lifestyles.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 141, 1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module V:Health Lifestyles is the fifth in aseries of six modules designed for trainers ofhealth advisors. The adaptable curriculum ineach module can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This fifth module was written to teach healthadvisors how to make lasting changes in theircommunity's health habits and behaviors.Specific information is provided in units aboutsmoking, nutrition, exercise, and AIDS andother sexually transmitted diseases (STD's).Unit1 covers the role of the health advisor insupporting healthy lifestyles.Unit 2, SmokingCessation, covers topics of facts on smoking,effects of secondhand smoke, positive effects ofsmoking cessation, preparing your clients toquit, and relapse prevention. Unit 3, Nutrition,includes information on the importance of abalanced diet, what constitutes a balanced diet,nutrients, achieving and maintaining a healthyweight, eating disorders, and assisting clients inplanning healthier diets.Unit 4, Exercise,discusses the importance of exercise, aerobicexercise, weight training and flexibilitytraining, making time for exercise, and walking.Unit 5, STD's, (HIV), and AIDS, covers sexualattitudes, understanding and explaining STD'sand HIV, preventing transmission, and apractice session. A list of recommendedresources is included. (HE9800126)33The Community Health Advisor/WorkerVolunteers as Community Health Advisors052Coordinating a Volunteer Program.Form: Journal article.Author:Pettinelli, V.D.Source: Mental Hygiene. 55(4):516 518,October 1971.Abstract: The author presents the view that thesuccess of any volunteer program is directlydependent on the skill and awareness of thevolunteer coordinator. Before a programbegins, the coordinator must first assess theclimate in which the staff will function. Thethree basic elements to an effective volunteerprogram are:(1) selection, (2) training andsupervision, and (3) communication. Theselection of volunteers is the first vital step inestablishing a sound volunteer work force. Thecoordinator must (1) be cognizant of the type ofsetting in which the volunteers will be placed,(2) assess the needs of the setting, and (3) seekto meet those needs by effectively use the skillsof the volunteers. Volunteer training shouldbegin immediately after the selection process iscompleted. The training should center onproviding (1) a knowledge base that thevolunteer may use to do the job moreeffectively and (2) an atmosphere for personalgrowth and development. The coordinatorshould establish good communication linkswith the volunteers. The volunteer coordinatormust be sensitive enough to meet the needs ofthe agency as well as to meet the needs of thepeople who are giving freely of their time andabilities. (HE9700336)053Developing a Hospital's VolunteerProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sues, A.M.; Wilson, P.A.Source: Health and Social Work. 12(l):13 20,Winter 1987.Abstract: Using experiences gained from thesocial service department of a 250 bed urbanhospital that successfully initiated a volunteerprogram, two social workers explore thebenefits of volunteer services to hospital socialservices departments and outline a systematicapproach to developing volunteer programs thatavoids common pitfalls and is both effectiveand cost conscious.Direct service to patients isperhaps the most common and valued volunteeractivity. Volunteers also can play significantroles in administrative and clerical functions,public relations, fund raising, and policy andplanning functions. Developing a volunteerprogram involves conducting( 1 ) a detailedsurvey of potential sources of communityvolunteers, (2) an administrative audit to assessthe need for volunteer services, (3) a cost benefit analysis of the financial consequencesof initiating such a program, and (4) a pilotprogram to evaluate design effectiveness.Difficulties that can undermine a volunteerprogram include (1) finding adequatevolunteers, (2) defining the hospital auxiliary'srelationship to the