reader unlocks electric lock. Secure Side: Free egress. AE switch in electric lock shunts alarm. Emergency Operation: Non Secure Side: Door remains locked. Secure Side: Free egress. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 321 2023 This hardware set is used for all double egress doors with card access (see wiring diagram E5) Each to have: 2 Continuous Hinge Zero 910DBAA x CE4 x EPT Note: CE4 is for the Presence Sensor and the EPT cutout is for the Electric Power Transfer 2 Electric Exit Devices Von Duprin ELRX 9827EO F x LBR x US26D 2 Automatic Operators Stanley Magic Force x Alum 1 Wall Actuator (Inside) WIKK x 4 x 4 2 x US32D 4 Kick Plates Trimco (see description) x US32D 2 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors 1 Astragal Seals Legacy DE FMA @ fire rated doors 2 Magnetic Locks Deltrex 810 DS x Alum 1 Power Supply Von Duprin PS873 2 1 Relay Module Deltrex 530 2ARCM2 2 Door Contacts (by security vendor) 1 Motion Sensor (by security vendor) 1 Card Reader (by security vendor) Operation: During normal operation, electric exit devices are electrically dogged to allow for automatic operators to open doors freely. Magnetic locks secure doors. When signaled from the fire alarm system, or loss of power, electric exit devices latch, automatic operators are shut off and magnetic locks unlock. Non Secure Side: Card reader unlocks magnetic lock and signals automatic operator to open both doors. Secure Side: Free egress. Wall actuator unlocks magnetic lock and signals automatic operator to open both doors. Emergency Operation: Non Secure Side: Door remains locked. Secure Side: Free egress. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 322 2023 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 323 2023 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 324 2023 This hardware set is used for all single locked stair doors (see wiring diagram E6) Each to have: Hinges PBB (as required) x US26D 1 Electric Hinge PBB 4 wire (to match) x US26D 1 Electric Lock Sargent RX8270 x LL x US32D 1 Closer LCN 1 Door Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate Trimco (see description) x US32D 1 Power Supply Deltrex 551CCM ERI 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head Operation: Stair Side: During normal operation, doors are locked electrically from the stair side. When signaled from the fire alarm system, or loss of power, electric lock unlocks automatically. Egress Side: Free Egress at all times. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY Real Estate Development and Facilities 325 2023 ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY NYU Langone Health’s Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) division develops and manages programs that (1) protect personnel in all departments and on all levels from health and safety hazards, (2) ensure waste is discarded in an environmentally sound manner and (3) facilitate compliance with regulatory requirements for environmental and occupational health and safety. EH&S’s programs cover a broad spectrum of health and safety issues, including but not limited to: asbestos, biosafety, bulk storage tanks, chemical safety, ergonomics, fire safety, hazard communication, hearing conservation, indoor air quality, laboratory and animal safety, mold prevention and remediation, and waste management. 1. Architect’s Responsibilities The A/E Team, to the best of their ability, shall incorporate Best Management Practices for environmental and occupational health and safety into the design of the space. The A/E Team responsibilities include:  Anticipating, identifying and eliminating potential health and safety hazards (i.e. ergonomics, hazardous materials, noise, etc.) associated with the proposed use of the space, to the extent reasonably practical. Note: Eliminating hazards is not intended to limit creativity, but to ensure the designer minimizes foreseeable risks to the health and safety of those who: Carry out construction work, including demolition. May be affected by the project, including building occupants and the general public. Occupy the space post construction. Clean and maintain the space.  Specifying the least toxic, flammable/combustible and reactive products available for construction and renovation.  Where health and safety hazards cannot be eliminated, proposing alternate engineering controls to minimize or eliminate the risk.  The A/E Team shall use and comply with the design and safety regulations, guidelines and references listed in the References subsection below, as well as other health and safety guidelines received from NYU Langone’s Project Manager or division of EH&S. The A/E Team shall utilize the latest editions of the references available at the time of the design contract award.  If the design does not incorporate Best Management Practices for environmental and occupational health and safety, and comply with the References listed below, the A/E design firm shall obtain approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S.  The A/E Team shall not specify any of the following without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: Chemical products containing known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens*. Chemical products containing toxic and hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z*. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY Real Estate Development and Facilities 326 2023 Chemical products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. Chemical products for which the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates the health, fire or reactivity hazard as greater than “1” (slight hazard) on the NFPA/HMIS scale or as less than “4” (slight hazard) on the GHS hazard scale. Chemical products which emit strong odors. * Exceptions may be made for products containing chemicals which do not pose a hazard to persons during their application/use (i.e. paints containing silica).  In order to minimize potential delays associated with asbestos abatement, the A/E Team shall submit a set of Design Development Drawings that identify the scope of work including complete Demolition Drawings. The Demolition Drawings shall provide sufficient information to initiate an asbestos investigation and pull a demolition permit. The Demolition Drawings submitted shall be the same drawings that are filed with the DOB.  The A/E Team shall confirm requirements for code required emergency/egress signage (i.e. stair and elevator fire egress maps and messaging) and health/safety signage (i.e. chemical, laboratory, hazardous material, radiation, etc.) with Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) at RED+F. 2. References (A/E Team to confirm applicable local, state and federal code requirements) Federal RegulationsConsensus Standards US DHHS US DOL OSHA 1910 and 1926 US EPA US FDA US NRC ACGIH ANSI ASHRAE ASTM BOCA NFPA State RegulationsErgonomics NYS DEC NYS DOH NYS DOL NYS Building and Fire Codes Facilities Guidelines Institute (FGI): Patient Handling and Movement Assessments: A White Paper NIH Design Requirements Manual NIOSH OSHA ICC A117.1, ANSI 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, Dept of Justice ANSI/HFES 100 2007 Local Regulations NYC Building and Fire Codes NYC DEP NYC DOH NYU Langone StandardsNoise Safety Policy Manual Radiation Safety Manual NSF TJC NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 327 2023 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY NYU Langone Health believes that healthy people and a healthy environment are inextricably linked. As a healthcare organization, it is imperative that we act as a community leader in environmental stewardship. Creating a vital and healing environment is also central to our mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research and is integral to the comfort and lifelong wellness of our staff, students and patients. This sustainability commitment extends across every facet of NYU Langone, including how we design, construct and operate our facilities. Furthermore, the health system recognizes the risks associated with climate change and has committed to being a carbon neutral health system by 2050 with an interim carbon reduction goal by 2030. The goal of NYU Langone’s sustainability program is to fulfill a quadruple bottom line approach where decision making is based on balancing the potential impacts on people, the planet, business economics and patient care. The goal is not only to design green buildings and use environmentally preferable materials, but to augment our benefit to the community and reduce the negative environmental and human wellness impacts of operations once occupied. Teams should ensure projects exemplify our key sustainability pillars of emissions mitigation, adaptation and resiliency to climate change, health promotion and demonstration of leadership. In line with that commitment we are providing additional information about NYU Langone’s sustainability program organized as follows: 1. Sustainable Building Design Guidelines 2. Green Roof and Solar PV Guidelines 3. Sustainable Furniture and Furnishings Guidelines 4. Sustainable Flooring Guidelines 5. Bicycle Transportation Guidelines 6. Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Guidelines 7. Building Energy Efficiency Rating Label Guidelines 8. Related Components or Policies More can be read about the scope and progress of NYU Langone’s sustainability program, called GreenFirst, at http://nyulangone.org/our story/sustainability. 1. Sustainable Building Design Guidelines For all new construction and major renovation (more than 25,000 square feet or projects that include significant MEP scope), NYU Langone has instituted a goal of achieving Gold or higher level certification under the LEED v4 or v4.1 ratings system. Projects should assess the appropriate project type including BD+C, ID+C or others that may apply. Designers are to discuss the LEED and energy performance requirements with RED+F Project Managers from the outset and to follow an integrative design process. Where achievement of these goals presents significant hurdles for a project, the requirements should be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, and the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager early during the design process. Good communication of goals, requirements and challenges will help all projects achieve the highest levels of performance and innovation while containing costs. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 328 2023 Designers shall assist NYU Langone Health with preparation of the Owner’s Project Requirements (OPR). The OPR shall outline the Project’s environmental and sustainability goals and measures, waste and recycling requirements, energy performance requirements, and other system expectations. A template OPR can be provided by the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager. It shall be reviewed and approved by the RED+F PM and the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager. This information is mandatory for LEED certification and will be reviewed by the commissioning agent. If an option, projects must also complete a NYSERDA or whole building energy model simulation as part of meeting its LEED goals and take advantage of available funding or incentives for this work. This can include utility, State or Federal incentives including those outlined for either direct pay or Tax Credit (through the design professional) in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. In addition, projects that are 25,000 sq. ft. or greater and within New York City shall comply with Local Law 97. Such projects shall include a review of energy performance, carbon emissions and life cycle costs. The life cycle cost review shall include energy costs, operating costs and potential future LL97 or other penalties using a moderate approach to carbon coefficients after 2034. The A/E Team may consult with the Energy & Sustainability team regarding reasonable assumptions, space type assignments, campus carbon accounting, and any other aspects of LL97 as needed. For fit outs, interior only and smaller projects, the LEED and energy goals should be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, and the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager at the outset of the design process to establish requirements and goals on a case by case basis. Other guidelines or certification standards that NYU Langone encourages project developers to take into consideration include the WELL Building Standard, the NYC Active Design Guidelines: Promoting Physical Activity and Health in Design, the CDC’s Fitwel standard, My Green Labs certification and resources from the International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories (www.i2SL.org). NYU Langone believes that LEED and green buildings aim to protect, restore and work in harmony with the local environment, existing transit infrastructure and underlying natural systems. In general, green buildings are energy efficient, water conserving, durable and nontoxic, with high quality spaces that incorporate nature. NYU Langone seeks to integrate the following features of well designed green buildings where possible and applicable:  Demonstrate resiliency and adaptability in response to a changing climate and extreme weather events.  Incorporate passive design strategies and maximize use of energy efficient infrastructure and renewable energy sources (with or without energy storage).  Reduce or eliminate reliance on fossil fuels to reach carbon emissions reduction targets.  Minimize building stormwater runoff by incorporating green roofs, gardens, permeable pavers, bioswells and other green infrastructure (GI) or low impact development (LID) techniques as well as maintain compliance with NYC LL94 where applicable.  Use native and adaptive plants that minimize landscaping and irrigation needs. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 329 2023  Incorporate green and open spaces and provide access to the outdoors for patients and staff.  Incorporate facilities and design that encourage the use of alternative transportation methods, particularly biking and public mass transit.  Maximize use of natural lighting and provide views to the outside.  Reduce impact of noise and vibration through use of professional acoustical analysis and design services.  Provide for improved indoor air quality and minimize the use of chemicals of concern to increase the productivity of staff and reduce recovery time for patients.  Minimize or eliminate the use of mercury containing materials where safe, effective alternatives exist in compliance with NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 170.  Focus on material health. This includes compliance with the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, eliminating the use of formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), antimicrobials, and all flame retardants from all materials and finishes.  Focus on material and product circularity. This includes materials and products that incorporate recycled, local and renewably sourced materials, and can be reused or upcycled at the end of life  Provide well incorporated waste and recycling segregation and bins using the built environment to encourage proper recycling behavior in occupants (see the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines)  Support occupant mental and emotional health by implementing design strategies to ensure they are informed about their environment and have access to a variety of relaxation and social spaces. An integrative design approach and a life cycle assessment approach are both essential to meet these guidelines and marry green building with sustainable operations and resiliency for the life of the facility. Finding synergies between the built environment and eventual operations is an important concept. For example, incorporation of a green roof feature can provide insulation and lower energy needs, help manage stormwater runoff on the campus and reduce the heat island effect in the NYC community. Or designing with the understanding that the flooring material used not only has an embedded energy, carbon and natural resource footprint, but that the type of material used impacts how the facility needs to be cleaned post occupancy. Material decisions such as these can either facilitate or hinder a reduction in chemical and water usage as part of green cleaning practices. Or designing into the built environment smart waste sorting stations that cater to the type of activity (research, clinical or office) taking place in each space can ultimately drive employees to practice good recycling behaviors. By using an integrative project approach that brings in multiple stakeholders from the outset, project teams can more readily discover synergies and areas for true innovation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 330 2023 2. Green Roof and Solar PV Guidelines New York City Local Laws 92 and 94 of 2019 require all new and existing buildings undergoing major roof construction or renovation to have a green roof system, solar photovoltaic system, or a combination of both. The regulation also requires projects to meet new, higher solar reflective index (SRI) requirements. Examples of projects affected include new construction, vertical or horizontal building extensions, and replacements of the entire roof deck or assembly. Even when not required by code, Architects are encouraged to consider implementation of green roofs, solar photovoltaics or both on NYU Langone projects to take advantage of the benefits of sustainable roof systems as outlined below:  Achieve points under USGBC LEED standards  Improve resiliency and backup generation  Lower energy costs either through direct offset or through better building insulation  Feed additional distributed energy resources and renewables back into the grid  Reduce the urban heat island effect  Manage stormwater and runoff 3. Sustainable Furniture and Furnishings Guidelines NYU Langone has committed to the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, which impacts furniture purchasing and design decisions. This goal means that at all purchases of freestanding furniture and medical furnishings1 for any individual project are to be specified without the intentional use of the following chemicals of concern: halogenated and brominated flame retardants2, formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, PVC (also known as vinyl) and antimicrobials3. Project teams should discuss with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, the RED+F Design Studio, and the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager throughout the process to meet these guidelines and evaluate feasibility. For all projects, regardless of the level of certification or LEED ratings system being pursued, NYU Langone also encourages the use of locally sourced furniture and textiles, furniture that contains pre or post consumer recycled content and the use of wood that is FSC certified. Other standards or certifications to refer to include the ANSI/BIFMA e3 Furniture Sustainability Standard, SCS certified and Cradle to Cradle. Notes: 1 Furniture and medical furnishings include seating (i.e. chairs, stools, sofas, benches, etc.), worksurfaces (i.e. tables, desks, etc.), built in and modular casework systems (i.e. walled desks with seating), beds (including mattresses), storage units (i.e. cabinets, filing cabinets, dressers, drawers, etc.), shelving (i.e. bookshelves, built in shelves, etc.), panels and partitions, cubicle curtains, and window coverings. 2 Eliminate the intentional use of all flame retardants where code permits. When flame retardant chemicals are necessary to meet code requirements, use chemicals that meet GreenScreen Benchmark 3 or 4 of their equivalent. 3 Triclosan and triclocarban are explicitly prohibited. No other added or built in chemical antimicrobials are allowed unless they are registered with the U.S. EPA under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), and have published data that show efficacy in a hospital/clinical setting measured by a reduction in healthcare associated infections (HIAs) as part of comprehensive infection control measures. Antimicrobials added to materials or products for the sole purpose of preserving the product are exempt. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 331 2023 4. Sustainable Flooring Guidelines Some of the materials and chemicals used in flooring can make it a negative contributor to indoor air quality, lead to a wide range of adverse health effects including but not limited to asthma, cancer, and developmental impacts, and promote unsustainable cleaning practices. All capital projects, regardless of pursuit of requirements for LEED certification or other building rating systems, shall use flooring materials, coatings, and adhesives free of select chemicals of concern as dictated by Health Care Without Harm’s Healthy Flooring criteria (minimum silver level rating). 5. Bicycle Transportation Guidelines The NYU Langone Bicycle Transportation Policy seeks to foster a bike friendly culture with bike commuter amenities such as parking, security, safety and bike registration. Inclusion of bike amenities shall be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager as well as representatives of the Real Estate team and the Sustainability Manager regardless of pursuit or requirements around LEED certification for a project as specified in these Design Guidelines. The Project shall provide adequate bike parking to meet end user daily demand.  Bike Parking and Amenities Indoor Bike Parking When provided indoors, bike parking shall be within secure bike parking rooms for use by approved staff, faculty and students. These rooms shall be accessible through a keycard reader. For fit outs within leased premises, the A/E Team shall follow the landlord’s rules for the management of indoor bike parking/storage within NYU Langone’s own premises. The Real Estate team can advise on a particular building’s policies. Outdoor Bike Parking Outdoor bike parking may be located outside building entrances and exits, in parking lots or garage structures, within secure courtyards or on terraces. NYU Langone’s preference is for outdoor bike parking to be covered or protected from the outside elements. Bike Commuter Shower Facilities If a project, particularly new construction, can accommodate male/female or a unisex individual shower facility, the A/E Team shall include them in the design. Refer to the Building Accessories subsection of these Design Guidelines for bike rack specifications. 6. Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Guidelines Capital projects involving NYU Langone owned car parking lots and garages shall provide a minimum of of total parking spots to have EV chargers installed and ready for use with NYU Langone preferred software. An additional of total parking spots shall have EV chargers installed and/or be EV Ready with the necessary power infrastructure installed to meet future demand. The A/E Team and RED+F PM shall coordinate related signage fabrication and installation with NYU Langone Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group as part of the capital project. This shall be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager as well as representatives of the Real Estate team and the Energy & Sustainability Program Manager. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 332 2023 7. Building Energy Efficient Rating Label Guidelines New York City Local Law 33 of 2018 and 95 of 2019 require the display of an energy efficiency score and grade provided annually by the New York City Department of Buildings. This regulation applies to owned properties that are listed on the Covered Buildings List for benchmarking compliance as per Department of Finance records. Consult with NYU Langone Design Studio’s Signage / Wayfinding Group to coordinate location and frame. 8. Related Components or Policies  NYU Langone Health: Bicycle Transportation Policy  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 170: Mercury Elimination Program  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108: Chemical Waste Minimization and Disposal Program  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108a: Hazardous Waste from Contractors (Construction & Building Maintenance)  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108c: Universal Waste Management Program NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 333 2023 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY NYU Langone’s MCIT (Medical Center Information Technology) division is responsible for the planning, design, construction, implementation, and operational aspects of all information technology systems, inclusive of both clinical and non clinical systems. Our mission is to ensure technology systems are deployed in a manner to improve patient outcomes, increase patient safety, and provide state of the art platforms to conduct world class medical research initiatives. MCIT is responsible for all aspects of IT spaces, including data center, BDF/IDF, and TER’s as well as the following IT systems: networking, cabling, telephony, audio/visual (AV), electronic medical record, nurse call, telemetry, end user devices, and real time location services (RTLS). The standards listed below apply to IDF Rooms that are typically found in capital improvement projects. This guideline is a subset of a larger technology design standards document (NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices) and should be used in conjunction with the latest version of that document. The purpose of the NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices is to provide specific criteria in the design and planning of technology spaces. It is intended to be used by internal and external project management administrators, project architects and engineers, as well as facility managers. It shall be referenced for specific guidelines, standards and specifications for the design, construction and commissioning of technology spaces and/or facilities. Any deviation from the NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices must be reviewed and approved by MCIT. 1. IDF Planning Requirements An IDF is a technology space provided on every floor in a NYU Langone building from which all horizontal services to users are served, including low voltage data and voice services. On a floor, (1) one or more IDF Rooms will be provided, converging IT, AV, Security, BMS, RF, Nurse Call, Telemetry, Public Address, etc., into one room.  Quantity of IDFs A minimum of one (1) IDF per floor is required at all clinical and smaller non clinical facilities. IDF quantities shall be based on the square footage of the floor and outlet density. TIA 569 recommends one (1) IDF per 10,000 square feet.  Location of IDFs IDFs (and BDF Rooms providing IDF functionality) shall be positioned to be within 250 feet of horizontal distance from the farthest outlet point (using right angle measurements). Final locations of all IDFs, including the intended primary path(s) of horizontal cabling and the associated 250 foot rule must be presented to and approved by MCIT prior to the architectural layout being approved by NYU Langone project management. IDF Rooms shall be located on separate sides of the core, however, these rooms shall be positioned to provide maximum coverage to the entire floor. IDFs located below the Design Flood Elevation (D.F.E.) shall only serve areas within the FEMA defined flood zone. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 334 2023 IDF Rooms shall be stacked to maintain a vertical adjacency. Equipment that is not related to the support of the IDF (i.e. piping, conduits, duct work, etc.) should not be located in, or pass through, the IDF.  Room Size and Layout The room size is to be ultimately confirmed by the final determination of racks and cabinets, which must be identified for use by the IT Designer and approved by NYU Langone MCIT prior to coordination with the Architect. A minimum clearance of 36 inches is required around three sides of any cluster of racks.  Rack Requirements Otronics Mighty Mo 20 is the preferred rack. It is 23.75” wide x 24” channel depth complete with dust cover and isolation pad kit. The preferred color is black. Preferred height shall be 7’ 0”, and shall only be reduced or increased based on room constraints.  Unacceptable Occupancies or Uses above IDF’s All use types that involve water supply and removal, such as kitchens, locker room showers, toilets, pantries, etc. shall not be permitted to be located above or adjacent to a technology room.  Horizontal Pathways Space must be established by the IT Designer to account for horizontal cabling distribution, regardless of whether ladder rack is provided or not, as a means of cabling support. Sufficient clearance and access methods must also be included to facilitate future cabling changes. This path shall be presented to MCIT when the IDF locations are being submitted for preliminary approval.  Raceways Penetrating Walls and Floors Where cabling is required to traverse rated walls and/or floors and is not to be routed in conduit, fire rated Hilti Speed sleeves must be employed. Non rated penetrations shall use the Hilti Smoke Sleeve. Hilti sleeves shall not be filled in excess of fill. spare capacity shall be provided for future use. All sleeves which traverse rated walls and/or floors must be properly firestopped, where Hilti is not required or applicable by NYU Langone MCIT. Sleeves and conduits penetrating into technology spaces shall not exceed 4”. 2. IDF Electrical Requirements  UPS Power Refer to NYU Langone Electrical Guidelines.  PDU and Distribution Level Capacity PDU’s shall not exceed of rating. Capacity shall assume a total load on a PDU in the event one half of a circuit in a 2N pair has failed.  Lighting 45 to 55 fc (450 to 550 lux)  Telecommunication Grounding A Telecommunications Grounding Busbar (TGB) must be provided in all technology rooms, mounted at 7’ 6”, and at a minimum, be connected to building structural steel or an already established telecommunications ground. The TGB is the grounding connection point for telecommunications systems and equipment. This should be shown on the electrical plans for electrician to install. The IT contractor shall bond the IDF equipment to the TGB. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 335 2023 All two post racks shall utilize Chatsworth Rack Base Insulator Kits or Ortronics Cooper B line Isolators to create isolation between floor slab/rebar and the metal of the technology equipment rack. 3. IDF’s Mechanical Requirements Refer to NYU Langone Mechanical Guidelines. 4. IDF’s Architectural Requirements  Ceiling Construction No hung ceiling. Any exposed fireproofing shall be encapsulated in an appropriate material. All ceilings shall be painted white. No penetrations or sky lights over IT areas.  Floor Treatment All concrete surfaces shall be erosion and vapor sealed (i.e. oil based paint, concrete coating, etc.). Provide Static Dissipative Floor Tile (SDT) installed as a system per manufacturer installation instructions. Grounding strips shall be connected to the TGB by the electrician. An electrical back box shall be provided to accommodate this connection. All floors above technology spaces shall be treated in the areas of the technology room to provide a waterproofing layer in order to prevent the migration of water to the technology room below.  Fire Rating As required by Code. (Perimeter Wall 2 hour minimum. Interior Walls 1 hour minimum.) All pipes, duct ladder racks, cable trays and conduit penetrations shall be fire sealed at penetrations through rated walls.  Windows Fenestration (i.e. windows) at exterior walls is not permissible.  Finishes Paint over vapor barrier primer/sealer at perimeter walls and paint at interior walls. Coordinate paint specification with RED+F.  Walls Interior walls shall be insulated stud walls with gypsum board finish.  Plywood Backboard Provide fire retardant plywood painted with two (2) coats of fire retardant paint (white in color) on the major wall space.  Doors Where permissible, doors are to swing out and not have a threshold. Doors shall be a minimum 3’ 0” width x 7’ 0” height. All IDF doors shall be fitted with card access with electrified mortise lock with transfer hinge. Doors shall have a fire rating as required by code. 5. IDF’s Miscellaneous Requirements Card readers required on door. Off campus locations require remote access. Provide (2) two CCTV cameras. One to monitor the door and front rack activity. The second to monitor activity at the rear of the racks. Camera locations shall be coordinated with Security and the MCIT PM. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 336 2023 6. Miscellaneous IT Design Requirements Cable trays external to technology spaces are to be provided by the electrical contractor. They are to be designed by IT Designer and shown on the Electrical drawings. It is critical the cable tray path is coordinated with the MEP. All IDFs require a dedicated pathway back to the BDF. This can take the form of a dedicated telecommunications shaft way, sleeves through the floors of stacked IDFs, and/or conduit runs. Sizing and routing should be determined by the Designer and approved by MCIT. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SECURITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 337 2023 SECURITY Given its location in the heart of New York City, NYU Langone pays special attention to security in its facilities and operations. In order to bring existing and new locations undergoing renovations in line with our security standards, new security components are required to be installed as additions to existing security systems or completely new installations. Security system design and installation will require varied approaches depending on the Project Type as outlined below: 1. Project Types  Facilities with Existing Security Systems In nearly all facilities that NYU Langone owns or leases, there is an existing security system to which follow on installations will link and we will use that vendor’s equipment for the follow on installation. The vendor of that equipment is the Security Vendor. The RED+F PM and the A/E Team will work with the Security Vendor to develop equipment placement requirements and will meet with NYU Langone’s Security Department at key points during the design and construction process for their review of the security design. Among other things, the Security Department will review the equipment the Security Vendor proposes to use and the pricing. The Security Vendor will work under contract to the construction contractor.  Facilities without Existing Security Systems If the facility is new, there will not be an existing Security Vendor. Accordingly, the Architect shall provide security design services or shall engage the services of a Security Consultant (pre approved by NYU Langone’s Security Department) to provide such services and the Architect will be responsible for the services the Security Vendor would otherwise provide. The project team will work with RED+F’s Project Support Office to determine how to procure the Security Vendor. Alternatively, RED+F may direct the use of an existing Security Vendor. 2. Project Development and Design The following are required milestones for meetings with NYU Langone to determine security needs, develop scope and coordinate final recommendations:  Schematic Design During Schematic Design a meeting with the A/E Team, RED+F’s PM, User Group leadership and any additional stakeholder(s) of the new space shall be held. The purpose of the meeting is to review security needs for the project.  Design Development During the Design Development Phase, the Architect shall provide Floor plans, Furniture plans, Reflected Ceiling plans and Door Hardware information to and meet with the Security Department and Security Vendor at the same time. The Architect will propose for Security Department approval a security system design that incorporates User Group requests, Stakeholder requests, NYU Langone security standards and industry security standards.  Construction Documents During the Construction Document Phase, the Architect (through the RED+F PM) will organize a meeting of the A/E Team, Security Department, and RED+F’s PM to review the proposed security solutions and seek Security Department approval thereof. The Security Vendor will provide the A/E Team with equipment cut NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SECURITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 338 2023 sheets, cabling and rough in requirements. The A/E Team will incorporate this information into the Construction Documents. A final meeting will be held with the A/E Team, Security Department, RED+F’s PM, User Group leadership and any additional stakeholder(s) of the new space to present the final coordinated security design. The decision for systems cabling responsibility will also be determined at this time.  “As Built” Documentation The Architect shall provide the Security Vendor and Security Department with copies of the finalized “As Built” in electronic form acceptable for import into BuildFlow. 3. General Requirements for Security Design The Architect shall follow the security requirements listed below in the design of the project:  Any code issues, such as fire and life safety, that affect security operations must be addressed by the Architect.  Interior Common spaces should not be isolated from entrances or