Jay Marcus, Director of Housing & Community Facility Development ▪ Aaron Shiffman, Executive Director, Brooklyn Workforce Innovations ▪ Marcela Mitaynes, Tenant Organizing & Advocacy Program Coordinator, Neighbors Helping Neighbors ▪ Aura Mejia, Neighbors Helping Neighbors Multiple meetings and communication Good Shepherd Services ▪ Kathy Gordon, Associate Executive Director ▪ Rachel Forsyth, Senior Director of Partnership Schools ▪ Shalini Schaeffer, Program Director Multiple meetings and communication Grand Street Guild Resident Association ▪ Daisy Paez, President (former) ▪ Sandra Strother, President (current) ▪ Members and residents Multiple meetings and communication from September 2015 to present Organizations Attendees Dates Grand Street Settlement ▪ Willing Irene Chin Ma, Associate Executive Director ▪ Leslie Capello, Early Head Start Director Multiple meetings and communication from September 2014 to present Hamilton Madison House ▪ Joanne Hsu, Supervisor, Caregiver Services Program Meeting in 2018 Healthy Families New York Brooklyn Advisory Meetings ▪ Brooklyn Perinatal Network ▪ Bushwick BrightStart Healthy Families at Public health Solutions ▪ Healthy Families Brookdale ▪ Healthy Families Successful Start at Bedford Stuyvesant Family Medical Health Center ▪ NYCDOHMH Healthy Homes Program ▪ Safe Horizon Inc. ▪ Womankind Quarterly meetings Healthy Village at Claremont Pediatric Bundle Initiative ▪ Claremont Neighborhood Center ▪ Healthfirst ▪ NYC DOHMH Multiple meetings and communication Henry Street Settlement ▪ Diane Rubin, Chief Program Officer (former) ▪ Ashley Young, Program Director of Henry Street Settlement's Neighborhood Resource Center ▪ Kristin Hertel, Deputy Program Officer of Health and Wellness Multiple meetings and communication HER Justice ▪ Amy Barasch, Executive Director ▪ Hamra Ahmad, Director of Legal Services Multiple meetings and communication Hester Street Collaborative ▪ Betsy MacLean, Executive Director ▪ Nisha Baliga, Director, Participatory Planning Multiple meetings and communication Legal Aid Society ▪ Sunny Noh, Supervising Attorney, Tenant Rights Coalition ▪ Caryn Schreiber, Staff Attorney, Brooklyn Neighborhood Office, Tenant Rights Coalition ▪ Meghan Walsh, Staff Attorney, Brooklyn Neighborhood Office, Tenant Rights Coalition Multiple meetings and communication from August 2018 to present Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) New York City ▪ Emily Blank, Senior Community Development Officer Multiple meetings and communication Organizations Attendees Dates Council Member Carlos Menchaca’s office ▪ Ivan Valladares, Constituent Liaison Multiple meetings and communication Mayor’s Committee for Community Schools ▪ Multiple organizations Multiple meetings and communication Mixteca Community Organization ▪ Karla Alvarez, Executive Director Multiple meetings and communication NYC City Council Early Literacy Initiative (City’s First Readers) (initiative of 11 early literacy focused organizations across NYC; funded by NYC City Council) ▪ Stephen Levin NYC City Council District 33 ▪ Antonio Reynoso NYC City Council District 34 ▪ Brooklyn Public Library ▪ Committee for Hispanic Children and Families ▪ JCCA ▪ Jumpstart Literacy, Inc ▪ Parent Child Home Program ▪ Queens Library ▪ Reach Out and Read of Greater New York ▪ United Way Multiple meetings and communication New York City Housing Authority ▪ Andrea Mata, Senior Manager for Community Initiatives ▪ Kim Truong, Community Coordinator Multiple meetings and communication NYC Department of Housing, Preservation and Development ▪ Vicki Been, Commissioner (former) ▪ Elyzabeth Gaumer, Housing Policy Research ▪ Elizabeth Greenstein, Director of External Affairs ▪ Jessica Katz, Assistant Commissioner, Special Needs Housing ▪ Ahuva Jacobowitz, Director, Division of Research & Evaluation ▪ Jessica Gomez, Program Director of Preservation Initiatives ▪ Jenny Weyel, Director of Neighborhood Stabilization Multiple meetings and communication NYC Smoke Free ▪ Deidre Sully, Director ▪ Ayodele Alli, Engagement Coordinator New York Immigration Coalition ▪ Claudia Calhoon, Director of Health Advocacy ▪ Max Hadler, Health Advocacy Specialist Multiple meetings and communication Organizations Attendees Dates NYU LH Latino Community Meeting ▪ Brooklyn Public Library ▪ Center for Family Life ▪ Mixteca ▪ Salvation Army ▪ Samaritan Village The Healing Center New York Multiple meetings and communication NYULH Brooklyn Arab Community Advisory Council Board members, executive leadership, and staff from: ▪ Arab American Association of NY ▪ Arab American Cancer Education & Referral Program (AMBER) ▪ Arab American Family Support Center ▪ Arab American Federation ▪ Arab Muslim American Federation ▪ Beit Al Maqdis Islamic Center ▪ Egyptian American Alliance ▪ Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield ▪ Islamic Society of Bay Ridge ▪ MAS Youth Center ▪ Memorial Sloan Kettering ▪ Moroccan American House Association ▪ National Arab American Medical Association ▪ Network of Arab American Professionals of NY ▪ New Life Day Care ▪ Salaam Club ▪ Salam Arabic Lutheran Church ▪ Yemen American Association of Greater NY ▪ Yemeni Merchants Association Multiple meetings and communication NYULH Brooklyn Chinese Community Advisory Council Board members, executive leadership, and staff from: ▪ Asian Community United Society ▪ Asian Health and Social Service Council ▪ Brooklyn Chinese American Association ▪ Chinese American Independent Practice Association ▪ Chinese American Planning Council ▪ Chinese Promise Baptist Church ▪ Chinese American Social Services Center ▪ CaringKind Multiple meetings and communication Organizations Attendees Dates ▪ Health First ▪ Homecrest Community Services ▪ ElderServe Health Inc. ▪ Mannings 8th Ave Pharmacy, ▪ Visiting Nurse Service of New York Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow ▪ Liliana Polo McKenna, Chief Executive Officer Multiple meetings and communication Reach Out and Read of Greater New York External Advisory Board ▪ Leora Molgilner, Medical Director ▪ Laurie Williams, Director Multiple meetings and communication Red Hook Community Justice Center ▪ Ross Joy, Manager, Housing Resource Center ▪ Viviana Gordon, Deputy Director Multiple meetings and communication Red Hook Initiative ▪ Jill Eisenhard, Executive Director ▪ Catherine McBride, Director of Community Building ▪ Vanessa Nisperos, Director of Professional Development Multiple meetings and communications RiseBoro Community Partnership ▪ Chris Leto, Director of Outreach and Special Projects ▪ Hector Alicia, Community Engagement Specialist, Asthma Educator Multiple meetings and communication Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation ▪ Ben Margolis, Executive Director ▪ Justin Collins, Director of Workforce Development Multiple meetings and communication SUNY Downstate THEO Program BATES Planning Committee ▪ Marian Searchwell, CAPP Coordinator ▪ Youth and staff representatives from CAMBA, HEAT, Project Ally Bi monthly meetings Sunset Park Early Learning Network ▪ Multiple Sunset Park early childhood centers, family daycares, and home visiting programs Multiple meetings and communication Sunset Park Shape Up NY Advisory Board  Community members  Blue Cross/ Blue Shield  Sunset Park Neighborhood Center  The Healing Center  United Senior Center Multiple meetings and communication Sunset Park Roundtable ▪ Academy of Medical and Public Health Services ▪ Atlas:DIY ▪ Center for Family Life ▪ Family Health Centers at NYU Langone ▪ Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs Multiple meetings and communication Organizations Attendees Dates ▪ Safe Horizons ▪ Theater of The Oppressed ▪ Turning Point ▪ UPROSE The Alex House Project ▪ Samora Coles, Founder and Executive Director Multiple meetings and communication The Door ▪ Various staff Multiple meetings and communication Two Bridges Neighborhood Council ▪ Francine Jean, Health & Wellness Program Manager Multiple meetings and communication Two Bridges NYCHA Resident Association ▪ Kenneth McIntosh, President ▪ Members and residents Multiple meetings and communication from September 2015 to present University Settlement ▪ Bonnie Cohen, Director of Family and Clinical Services ▪ Early childhood staff ▪ Mary Adams Managing Director of Mental Health Programs Multiple meetings and communication from September 2013 to present Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez’s Office ▪ Melissa del Valle Ortiz, Community & Housing Coordinator Multiple meetings and communication Wavecrest Management Grand Street Guild ▪ Leadership team and building board and management Multiple meetings and communication from September 2015 to present Zone 126 ▪ Anju Rupchandani, Director of Collective Impact ▪ School leaders and administrators Quarterly meetings 2015 2016 Other health organization partners: AIDS Service Center NYC Hamilton Park Nursing & Rehabilitation Center Arthur Ashe Institute Hatzolah of Boro Park Be Well Primary Health Care Center L’Refuah Health and Rehabilitation Center / Ezra Medical Center Boropark Care Center for Rehabilitation and Health Care Maimonides Medical Center Bowery Residents Committee Memorial Sloan Kettering Center for Immigrant Health Bridge Back to Life Center Menorah MercyFirst Brooklyn AIDS Task Force Metropolitan Jewish Health System (Hospice) Buena Vida Nursing Home & Rehabilitation Center New Dimensions Callen Lorde Norwegian Christian Home and Health Center Care for the Homeless ODA Primary Health Care Network Cerebral Palsy Association of NYS Park Slope Center for Mental Health Charles B. Wang Health Center Pharmacy on Fifth Coalition of Asian American IPAs Premium Health Inc. Cobble Hill Health Center Ridgewood Bushwick Senior Citizens Council Crown Nursing & Rehabilitation Center Sephardic Nursing & Rehabilitation Duane Reade Pharmacy South Beach Psychiatric Services Ezra Medical Center SUNY Downstate Medical Center Gay Men’s Health Crisis (GMHC), Inc. Visiting Nurse Service of NY Guild for Exceptional Children White Glove Community Care Faith Based Partners: Bay Ridge Christian/ Sunset Park Community Church Our Lady of Solace Church Beit Al Maqdis Sacred Heart Saint Stephen Church CHIPS Salam Arabic Lutheran Church Holy Spirit Church Salvation Army, Sunset Park Masjid Al Rahman St. Agatha Church Mogjid el Roham St. Michael’s Church Muslim Community Center St. Rose of Lima Church Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary Church Our Lady of Refuge Church School Partners: PS 1 PS 169 MS 88 PS 2 PS 172 MS 136 PS 10 PS 179 MS 313 PS 12/ MS 484 PS 188 Abraham Lincoln High School PS 15 PS 196 Boys & Girls High School PS 18 PS 217 EBC High School for Public Service PS 24 PS 282 Erasmus Academies PS 28 PS 288 Frank J. Macchiarola Education Complex PS 31 PS 307 High School of Telecommunication Arts and Technology PS 38 PS 329 John Jay Educational Campus PS 50 PS 335 Juan Morel Campos PS 59 PS 352/ 375 South Brooklyn Community High School PS 90 PS 369 South Shore Educational Complex PS 92 PS 371 Sunset Park High School PS 94 PS 503 Wingate Educational Campus PS 96 PS 506 School District 15 PS 124 PS 971 School District 20 PS 153 IS 62 PS 164 JHS 220 Shelter Partners: CAMBA Bowery Residents Committee Volunteers of America HELP USA Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Project Hospitality Project Find NYC Department of Homeless Services 1 1 A Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA) was conducted with support from the NYU Langone Health Community Service Plan. The assessment was planned by a team of six organizations: The Alex House Project, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Good Shepherd Services, NYU Langone Health Department of Population Health, Red Hook Community Justice Center, and the Red Hook Initiative. More than 20 Red Hook organizations and more than 600 people who live or work in Red Hook participated in this collaborative, community based project to get more information about:  Important health issues for the Red Hook community  Strengths and existing programs in Red Hook  Needed programs and services in Red Hook  Opportunities to connect the community’s strengths and needs to improve the health and wellbeing of Red Hook residents During the assessment process, the CHNAA team:  Looked at data from hospitals, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Red Hook organizations, and other agencies, and identified missing data needing further exploration  Collected additional information from people who live and work in Red Hook through dot voting, surveying, and small group conversations  Identified strengths and existing programs and resources  Identified potential future actions to address top health concernsRED HOOK COMMUNITY HEALTH OCTOBER 2018 Appendix CTHE RED HOOK COMMUNITY 2 Red Hook is a resilient, diverse, and lively waterfront community in Brooklyn, New York. The neighborhood is known for its strong maritime and industrial history and deeply rooted public housing community. It is home to the NYC Housing Authority (NYCHA) Red Hook Houses, New York’s second largest public housing complex (blue areas on the map).  More than half of Red Hook residents live in public housing.2  The majority of residents are racial and ethnic minorities. of residents identify as Latino, African American, White and approximately Asian.3  of Red Hook’s approximately 11,000 residents are under the age of 18.3 Like many NYC neighborhoods, Red Hook is experiencing gentrification resulting in an increase of commercial wealth, including Ikea and Fairway Market. The percentage of residents with incomes below the federal poverty level stayed about the same from 2006 to 2016, but the percentage of the wealthiest residents (incomes at least 5 times higher than poverty level) increased in the areas surrounding the Red Hook Houses.4 This highlights the disparities between the predominantly white homeowners living on the waterfront and the residents of the Red Hook Houses. Red Hook is geographically isolated. Many residents live far from the subway system and the neighborhood is cut off from the rest of Brooklyn by the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, causing difficulty in accessing resources not available in the community. Community concerns about access to healthcare and affordable food increased in recent years with the closures of Long Island College Hospital in 2013 and Pathmark in 2015. This very isolation also lends to social cohesion, neighborhood pride, and resiliency. Red Hook’s many strengths serve as the groundwork to take on the many challenges that arise in the community. 5, 6, 7, 8 THE RED HOOK COMMUNITY 3 Red Hook residents are engaged. Approximately 1 out of every 5 survey and small group conversation participants provided contact information to stay informed about findings and next steps in the process. Red Hook has a connected network of community based organizations. of community members rated community based organizations as a top strength in Red Hook.9 Red Hook is home to a dedicated network of non profits, arts and cultural organizations, religious institutions, and resident led community building activities. This strong network is evident in the more than 20 organizations that helped recruit over 600 community members to participate in this assessment. Residents value the community’s affordable housing, parks, community gatherings, schools, and public transportation. of community members rated affordable housing and parks and resources for physical activity as top strengths. of community members rated community gatherings, good schools and good public transportation as strengths. Poverty, high unemployment and low educational attainment are challenges in the community. of children under the age of 18 in Red Hook live in poverty.3 Unemployment is extreme. of residents 16 and older are unemployed, compared to of residents citywide.3 of adults have not completed high school.3 There are widespread outdoor and indoor environmental problems. Red Hook was greatly impacted by Superstorm Sandy and recovery efforts continue. Most of the Red Hook Ballfields were closed in 2012 and again in 2015 because of lead soil contamination. They have remained closed and efforts are underway to fix the problem. Many Red Hook residents are also impacted by poor housing conditions that affect the entire NYCHA system, such as heat and hot water outages, mold, and risk for lead exposure.10 11, 12, 13 TOP HEALTH CONCERNS 4 The Red Hook residents who participated in our survey reported worse overall health than NYC residents as a whole. of Red Hook residents rated their health as fair or poor compared to NYC wide.14 Most of Red Hook community members’ top health concerns align with the health needs and risks the CHNAA team identified through hospital, NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and other data. ASTHMA  of survey participants rated asthma as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. Residents made the connection between housing conditions and asthma in the small group conversations. They identified the impact that inconsistent heating and cooling, mold, and cockroaches and rats can have on people with asthma.  Asthma diagnoses among children on Medicaid and preventable asthma hospitalizations for adults are slightly higher in Red Hook and surrounding neighborhoods than in NYC as a whole.15,16  of residents of the Red Hook Houses surveyed by Red Hook Initiative in 2016 had at least one family member with asthma, and of those surveyed had mold in their apartments.17 Mold and other housing conditions can make asthma worse. STRESS + ANXIETY + DEPRESSION  of survey participants rated stress, anxiety and depression as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. Needed home repairs, rent increases, housing insecurity, safety concerns, and over policing were cited as causes of stress, anxiety, and depression.  Frequent mental distress is higher among Red Hook residents than NYC residents as a whole. Approximately 1 in 5 adults who live in the Red Hook Houses reported frequent mental distress.18 DIABETES  of survey participants rated diabetes as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. Diabetes was a major topic of discussion in the Spanish speaking small group conversation.  Approximately of adults who live in the Red Hook Houses reported having diabetes compared to of adults in NYC as a whole.18  of adults with diabetes who live in the Red Hook area have poorly controlled diabetes.19 SMOKING  of survey participants rated smoking as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook.  The smoking ban in NYC public housing came up in a few of the small group conversations and the CHNAA team’s day to day work with community residents. 1 in 5 adults who live in NYC public housing smoke.20 SUBSTANCE USE (INCLUDING ALCOHOL)  of survey participants rated substance use (including alcohol) as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. The connection between mental health and substance use came up in some of the small group conversations and the CHNAA team’s day to day work.  Alcohol related hospitalizations are higher in the Red Hook area than the citywide rate.21 There are also more alcohol retailers in the area compared to the citywide rate.22 NEEDED SERVICES 5 Participants rated programs and services related to housing, education + training, and food access as most needed to improve the health and wellbeing of Red Hook residents. Residents needed but had trouble accessing similar programs and services in the past 12 months. HEALTH Residents reported needing more (or better connections to) preventive and health management services in the community. In several of the small group discussions, residents said that they wanted more medical services and options to choose from in Red Hook. One group suggested that services could be offered in community locations where residents regularly go and not just in medical offices and clinics. Discussions also revealed the need for better awareness of and connection to existing resources in the community. HOUSING Residents reported that the current NYCHA repairs system takes a long time and often requires multiple steps. A few participants spoke about making repairs themselves, or getting needed repairs by advocating for themselves and with support from the Red Hook Community Justice Center. Housing conditions have an effect on health. Community residents identified home repairs as the #1 needed service to improve health in Red Hook. In the small group conversations, community members shared their experiences with poor housing conditions and the impact they have on their families’ health, especially asthma and stress. EDUCATION + TRAINING More information is needed about how residents access existing education and training programs. Many Red Hook residents rated education and training programs as top needed services to improve health and wellbeing, yet 1 in 5 residents reported having trouble accessing job training or employment programs in the past year. This topic needs further investigation. Access to healthyaffordable foodsAffordable housingoptionsJobs and programs foryoung peopleAdult education andjob training/ placementHome repairs for mold,pests, lead, and otherproblems Enough food to eatJob training oremployment programsExercise or fitnessactivitiesFood Stamps (SNAP),WIC, or cash assistanceHome repairsHome repairs for mold, pests, lead, and other problems Adult education and job training/ placement Adult education and job training/ placement Jobs and programs for young people Affordable housing options Access to healthy affordable foods Home repairs Food Stamps (SNAP), WIC, or cash assistance Exercise or fitness activities Job training or employment programs Enough food to eat NEEDED SERVICES 6 FOOD ACCESS Healthy food options seem limited and too expensive to many Red Hook residents. of survey respondents reported not having places in the neighborhood to buy affordable fresh fruits and vegetables. Residents spoke about available options (such as C Town, Fairway, and the Red Hook Community and Red Hook Houses Farms) but reported challenges such as cost, limited healthy and quality options, and inconvenient locations. Several small group conversation participants wanted more information about the safety of the soil at the Red Hook Farms because of the lead soil contamination at the NYC Department of Parks and Recreation Ballfields. (The soil is regularly tested and is safe for growing food).23 Some residents also talked about challenges with food stamps (SNAP). Some said that they do not cover enough expenses. Other participants said they make too much money to qualify for food stamp benefits but still struggle to have enough money to put food on the table. OTHER NEEDS Residents reported that more services are needed in Spanish and Chinese. The Spanish and Cantonese speaking small group participants expressed a need for more community services in their languages. Members of the Cantonese speaking group reported that they are sometimes required to complete and sign forms in English that they do not understand. Residents have multiple, related needs and need help accessing a variety of programs and services. Residents reported needing access to a variety of services that focus on social needs, such as home repairs and workforce development, in the survey and in the small group conversations. During the discussions other issues were raised that need more examination, such as: SAFETY + POLICING. The Cantonese speaking small group reported safety and violence as a major concern. They reported being afraid to answer their doors or go out early in the morning or late at night. The young parent small group reported police interactions as the primary contributor to stress, anxiety, and depression. DISPLACEMENT + GENTRIFICATION. Displacement and gentrification came up at various points in the assessment. One of the small groups said the issues with NYCHA home repairs and the smoking ban seemed intentional to push out longtime NYCHA residents. Handout used in the small group conversations CONNECTING STRENGTHS + NEEDS 7 STRATEGIES The following ideas build on community strengths, incorporate feedback from community members, and expand on successful practices already being used in Red Hook. Peer to peer programs Residents talked about the importance of trust and working with someone they can relate to. They thought that peer to peer programs were an appealing model to help with different health issues. These types of programs have been successful in Red Hook and other communities. Teen health and parenting programs are examples of programs in Red Hook that use this model. Potential services the peer workers can help with include health education, assistance accessing services, and organizing and advocacy. Peer to peer programs also provide an opportunity for training and job placement for Red Hook residents. Holistic strategies that meet community members at the point of their most pressing need Residents often have multiple, related needs. An approach that addresses a number of related issues at the same time would be more effective than strategies that address individual issues. Connections to Care is an example of a program in Red Hook that uses a holistic approach. It helps non medical staff identify mental health and related needs, and connect community members to services. Training and culturally appropriate resources are needed for holistic strategies to be successful. Advocacy and organizing Many Red Hook residents experience systemic inequalities based on race and class, such as health disparities and inadequate funding of public housing. Continuing to build community capacity to advocate and organize can help address these and other longstanding challenges and create long term change. CONNECTING STRENGTHS + NEEDS 8 TAKING ACTION The CHNAA team is exploring opportunities to implement these strategies to address the community’s top health needs. The team also responded to needs as they came up during this year long process. An existing education and home assessment program for people who have asthma and are on Medicaid was expanded to Red Hook. Materials about quitting smoking and lead exposure were also distributed to residents through CHNAA team organizations. The CHNAA team is planning to use the results of this assessment to expand additional Red Hook programs and services through the NYU Langone Health Community Service Plan. This plan includes programs that focus on top community health needs in southwest and central Brooklyn (including Red Hook) and the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan. Updates will be posted on the Red Hook HUB (http://www.redhookhub.org/) and the NYU Langone Health Community Service Plan website (https://nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan). We hope community organizations and residents will use this information for program planning, advocacy, additional information gathering and more. Tools and more detailed data are available at https://redhookchnaa.wordpress.com/, including full survey results categorized by age and housing situation, community data from other sources, and additional information. 24 DATA SOURCES Data review: The CHNAA team looked at community data from different agencies and organizations and identified missing data needing further exploration. An existing list of Red Hook programs and services was updated based on planning partner knowledge and information available on HITE Site (https://www.hitesite.org/) and the NYC Department of City Planning Capital Planning Platform (https://capitalplanning.nyc.gov/facilities). The CHNAA team focused on programs and services that address the top health concerns and needed services identified in the survey results. There may be programs and services missing from the inventory. The goal was to get a general sense of existing services and gaps to help inform next steps. Dot Voting: Approximately 187 Red Hook community members participated in dot voting during seven events at CHNAA team organizations. Most participants were young adults. 12 health issues and an “other” category were written on large posters. Participants were given three stickers to vote for the most important health issue(s) affecting the Red Hook community. Participants could place all three stickers under one issue, or place them under different issues. Survey: 594 people who live or work in Red Hook completed surveys (paper or online). Over 20 organizations in Red Hook helped with distribution. Surveys were completed in English (), Spanish (), and Chinese (). Small Group Conversations: Approximately 57 community members participated in five small group conversations hosted by CHNAA team organizations. Three groups were conducted in English, one in Cantonese, and one in Spanish. The survey results and the connection between housing and health were discussed. Participants were recruited by word of mouth through staff and residents. Survey participants who provided their email addresses were also invited to participate. Materials and additional data are available at https://redhookchnaa.wordpress.com/ DATA SOURCES 9 1 Welcome to Red Hook mural by Groundswell located at the corner of Hamilton Avenue and West 9th Street. 2 Total Red Hook population Census Tracts 53, 59, and 85 combined: U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS) 2012 2016, retrieved from New York City Population FactFinder. Red Hook Houses East and Red Hook Houses West total residents: “MyNYCHA Developments Development Data,” New York City Housing Authority, accessed September 14, 2018. 3 Red Hook Asian population is an estimate. U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS) 2012 2016, retrieved from New York City Population FactFinder. Census Tracts 53, 59, and 85 combined. 4 U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS) 2006 2010 and 2012 2016, retrieved from New York City Population FactFinder. 5 Map created in “DATA2GO.NYC,” Measure of America of the Social Science Research Council. 6 Red Hook Houses by Ross Joy is licensed under CC0 1.0 Universal. 7 _MG_2733 by Sunghwan Yoon is licensed under CC BY SA 2.0. 8 185 Van Dyke Street Red Hook 2d by Rhododendrites is licensed under CC BY SA 4.0. 9 While we reached over 600 people who live or work in Red Hook, findings from this Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment may not represent the entire Red Hook community. 10 See, for example: U.S. Attorney’s Office Southern District of New York “Settlement with NYCHA and NYC,” June 11, 2018; New York State Department of Health, “Assessment of New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) Properties,” March 2018; and New York City Department of Investigation, “Investigation into False Certification of NYCHA Lead Paint Inspections,” November 2017. 11 _MG_2900 by Sunghwan Yoon is licensed under CC BY SA 2.0. 12 Dunk by Ludovic Bertron is licensed under CC BY 2.0. 13 NYC Brooklyn Red Hook: Red Hook Food Vendors by Wally Gobetz is licensed under CC BY NC ND 2.0. 14 New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Community Health Survey, 2016. 15 Data is from the Carroll Gardens Columbia Street Red Hook Neighborhood Tabulation Area. New York State Medicaid Enterprise System, 2015, retrieved from New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Neighborhood Atlas. 16 Data is from the Carroll Gardens Columbia Street Red Hook Neighborhood Tabulation Area. Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) Inpatient Hospitalizations, 2012 2014, retrieved from New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Neighborhood Atlas. 17 Findings may not represent all Red Hook Houses residents. Red Hook Initiative, “The Impact of Mold on Red Hook NYCHA Tenants,” October 2016. 18 Data are estimates. Red Hook is defined as Census Tracts 53, 59, and 85. Census Tract 85 data was used as an approximation for Red Hook Houses residents. 500 Cities Project Data, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2015 2 Year Modeled Estimates, retrieved from City Health Dashboard. 19 Data is from the Carroll Gardens Columbia Street Red Hook Neighborhood Tabulation Area. New York City A1C Registry, 2014, retrieved from New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Neighborhood Atlas. 20 New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Community Health Survey, 2015. 21 There were 997 alcohol hospitalizations per 100,000 people 15 84 years old in the Carroll Gardens Columbia Street Red Hook Neighborhood Tabulation Area compared to 955 alcohol hospitalizations per 100,000 people in NYC as a whole. Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS) Inpatient Hospitalizations, 2014, retrieved from New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Neighborhood Atlas. 22 There are 47 alcohol retailers per 10,000 people in the Carroll Gardens Columbia Street Red Hook Neighborhood Tabulation Area compared to 26 alcohol retailers per 10,000 people in NYC as a whole. NY State Liquor Authority, Active License Data Open NY, November 8, 2016, retrieved from New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York City Neighborhood Atlas. 23 “Frequently Asked Questions,” Added Value Farms, accessed September 6, 2018. 24 _MG_2740 by Sunghwan Yoon is licensed under CC BY SA 2.0. Many thanks to all of the community residents and organizations that helped make this assessment possible. MORE INFORMATION For more information about this project please contact the Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA) team: SAMORA COLES samora@alexhouseproject.org http://alexhouseproject.org/ SUE KAPLAN sue.kaplan@nyu.edu https://med.nyu.edu/pophealth/ department population health KATHLEEN HOPKINS kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org MICHELLE CURRIE michelle.currie@nyulangone.org https://nyulangone.org/locations/ family health centers at nyu langone ROSS JOY joyr@nycourts.gov VIVIANA GORDON vgordon@nycourts.gov https://redhookjustice.org RACHEL FORSYTH Rachel_Forsyth@GoodShepherds.org SHALINI SCHAEFFER Shalini_Schaeffer@GoodShepherds.org https://goodshepherds.org/ CATHERINE MCBRIDE catherine@rhicenter.org http://rhicenter.org/ The Southwest Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium Needs Assessment and Priorities in Sunset Park SUPPORTED BY THE NYU LANGONE HEALTH COMMUNITY SERVICE PLAN Consultants: Henie Lustgarten and Bonnie Mohan, The Bronx Health and Housing Consortium Appendix D2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY In the spring of 2017, leadership from the NYU Langone Health Community Service Plan and NYU Langone Health Brooklyn began to explore the interaction between housing insecurity and health status and care in Brooklyn communities served by NYU Langone Health (NYULH). Henie Lustgarten and Bonnie Mohan, two founders of The Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, were hired as consultants to assist with a needs assessment and environmental scan of housing in Southwest Brooklyn. A leadership group was formed to guide this work and to develop recommendations based upon the findings. The group included colleagues from the Department of Population Health and of Emergency Medicine at NYU School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, the Brooklyn Health Home, Enterprise Community Partners, CAMBA, and Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC). Additional community based organizations (CBOs) provided input and insights at meetings of the Community Advisory Group for the NYU Langone Brooklyn Performing Provider System (PPS) Delivery System Reform Incentive Payment (DSRIP). (A list of participants is attached as Appendix A.) The composition of the leadership group reflects a recognition that partnerships with health, social service and housing providers will be essential to any housing and health initiative. The goals of the group were to: 1. Understand the intersection of health and housing needs of people in Southwest Brooklyn; 2. Build relationships with stakeholders serving a shared population; and 3. Share, develop, and advocate for resources. The result of this work is the creation of The Southwest Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium. This report summarizes the findings of the needs assessment and outlines short and longer term responses to the needs identified. Part I provides a brief overview of the intersection of health and housing and describes relevant experience and expertise at NYU Langone Health. Part II describes the methodology and key findings from the analysis of primary and secondary data. Part III discusses opportunities, challenges and current programs, and outlines a plan, building on existing efforts and developing new systems and programs, to: Provide systematic ways to share information, and develop pathways within and across the health and housing sectors, including:  Building a network across sectors to better understand the health/housing issues of patients/clients and to share information and resources, leveraging the existing PPS partnerships and structures. This will be done through: o Open houses, field trips and marketplace events so that health care, housing and CBO staff can learn about existing resources, understand how to navigate the health care and housing systems, and develop personal relationships and contacts to facilitate referrals and sharing of information; 3 o Case conferences to chart the path of selected patients/clients through clinical and community services to understand gaps and barriers and to optimize pathways; o A working conference on Health and Housing to explore intake processes, coding, and best practices for screening; and o Developing and implementing processes for sharing client/patient information and improving communication among different stakeholders, taking into account the need for privacy and confidentiality.  Building capacity and infrastructure of health systems and CBOs to identify and address health/housing issues through: o DSRIP workforce development programs; o Accessing New York State capacity building resources