weeks of pregnancy. Patients who choose a medication abortion will receive the medications during the same clinic appointment, and will also receive detailed instructions from the provider about how to use the medications. After a medication abortion, patients have a follow-up appointment within two weeks, either in the clinic or via a video doctor visit A procedural abortion—also called a uterine aspiration, suction aspiration, dilation and curettage, or dilation and evacuation—is offered for patients through 24 weeks of pregnancy. Through 10 weeks of pregnancy, patients can choose to have the procedure during the same clinic appointment, and have it performed with local anesthesia alone. Through 24 weeks of pregnancy, they can have the procedure with deep sedation as soon as the day after the appointment. Patients and providers work together to determine the best kind of procedure and anesthesia, depending on each patient’s preferences, the duration of the pregnancy, and their medical history. New patients can make an appointment for abortion care by either scheduling a visit with one of our abortion providers Early Pregnancy Complications and Miscarriage Management Complications in early pregnancy, such as cramping or bleeding, can be difficult to manage, especially for patients who have not yet connected with a prenatal care provider. Our clinicians help diagnose and manage these early pregnancy complications and offer sensitive counseling and comprehensive management options in case of early pregnancy loss (miscarriage). Our clinicians also provide expert management for patients with rarer abnormal pregnancies, such as ectopic pregnancies or molar pregnancies. Complex Contraception Guidance People who have complex medical histories or who have had past difficulties with contraception may need clinicians’ support to find a birth control option that is safe and effective for them. Our clinicians review your medical history as well as your preferences and past experiences to help you decide what birth control method works best for you. Sexually Transmitted Diseases We provide screening, counseling, diagnosis, and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases for people as part of their gynecologic care. Our team can also offer pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) medication for HIV prevention. At NYU Langone, we offer tailored treatment plans and support services to women with complex gynecologic conditions, which require a high level of expertise to diagnose and a team of specialists to manage. Our team includes internationally recognized gynecologic surgeons, who perform complex procedures, including 1,000 robotic-assisted surgeries each year, and who are among the most experienced in the country. Our surgeons collaborate with experts in fertility services , nutrition, mental health, and physical therapy to help manage these conditions: chronic adenomyosis, which is when the uterine lining grows into the muscular wall of the uterus adenomyomas—masses in the uterine lining that result from adenomyosis We offer the latest and most-advanced treatments, including fertility-preserving options for women with fibroids. Our patients also have access to the newest therapies through our research and clinical trials. Each year our surgeons perform more than 1,000 robotic-assisted surgeries, which allow for smaller incisions, less pain, and quicker recovery time. Personalized Care for Endometriosis and Pelvic Pain A team of healthcare providers at the takes an integrative care approach to managing endometriosis. Our specialists are also available to treat the many other causes of chronic pelvic pain. Our team includes highly trained gynecologic surgeons who specialize in minimally invasive techniques, including robotic-assisted surgery, to help reduce postoperative pain, infection rates, and healing time. Pelvic imaging specialists, nutritionists, complementary medicine specialists, fertility doctors, psychologists, sexual health therapists, pain management specialists, and pelvic floor physical therapists are also part of the care team. Together, they create personalized treatment plans tailored to each patient’s health goals. Uterine-Preserving Treatments for Fibroids When treating fibroids, adenomyosis, or adenomyomas, our doctors, including specialists from NYU Langone’s , talk with you about options for preserving the uterus based on your care preferences and plans for future pregnancy. This can include medication to alleviate symptoms, as well as minimally invasive approaches to remove or reduce these growths. Noninvasive approaches to care may include medication for fibroids to relieve symptoms such as pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Some of these same medications, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and oral contraceptives, may be used to alleviate pain and bleeding caused by adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Robotic-Assisted Surgery If symptoms caused by fibroids don’t improve, our doctors may recommend a robotic-assisted myomectomy or another minimally invasive surgical approach to remove the growths. Such methods leave the uterus intact. Embolization and Ablation Gynecologic surgeons also work with interventional radiologists to provide minimally invasive procedures such as uterine artery embolization to shrink fibroids and to treat adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Our specialists offer radiofrequency ablation (RFA), delivered through the cervix, to destroy fibroids with heat from high-energy electromagnetic waves. Our doctors may use RFA delivered through the peritoneum, a layer of tissue that covers the pelvic area, to treat adenomyosis and adenomyomas. Doctors may also combine one of these ablative procedures to shrink large fibroids and then remove any remaining tissue with minimally invasive robotic surgery. Access to Clinical Studies Women with complex gynecologic conditions have access to ongoing clinical studies at NYU Langone. Our doctors conduct research on safer and less painful surgical procedures that help patients to return to their daily activities more quickly than conventional open surgery. We are also investigating new pain relief medications for chronic pelvic pain. 646-754-2222 Our Clinical Genetic Services Preparing for Your Genetic Evaluation Our Genetic Counselors At NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services, we offer individualized evaluations, genetic counseling, and testing. Our clinical services include complete genetic evaluations for children and adults. Our goal is to provide you with genetic information that presents choices and minimizes uncertainty, empowering you to make decisions that are most beneficial for you. Although we offer specific recommendations about your medical care, we encourage you to make choices that are appropriate for you based on your cultural background and personal experience. We offer genetic counseling, evaluation, and testing for children and adults. We use a team approach in which we consult you, as well as one another, when making decisions. includes highly experienced clinical geneticists and genetic counselors who are trained to provide you with clinical information as well as referrals to other specialists. Your Evaluation A genetic evaluation includes meeting with either a medical geneticist or a genetic counselor, or both. We gather a detailed medical and family history during your appointment , provide a physical examination if needed, and discuss your options for genetic testing. Services for Children When evaluating your child for a genetic condition, we believe that parents are an integral part of the healthcare team. We want to know your thoughts about the causes of your child’s condition and discuss whether or not testing or treatment options may influence future childbearing decisions. We are supportive of your decision-making process based on your individual needs, philosophies, and beliefs. Our services for children are provided through Our services continue to grow with the increasing availability of new genetic tests and treatments. Our group customizes and explains the scientific details of your genetic evaluation, so you can be a fully informed participant in healthcare for yourself and your child. Affiliated Programs and Services Our experts provide the best care possible for children with conditions ranging from minor illnesses to complex, more serious conditions. Center for Children We offer outpatient care to children of all ages with musculoskeletal and neurological conditions. Stephen D. Hassenfeld Children’s Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders We combine the most advanced medical treatments with psychosocial and emotional support services for young patients and their families. Fink Children's Ambulatory Center We bring together a team of experts who specialize in caring for children, including cardiologists, cardiovascular surgeons, nephrologists, gastroenterologists, orthopedic oncologists, and others. Our researchers share a goal of understanding how cancer develops at the molecular level, and how to harness that knowledge to reduce the risk of cancer and provide the best treatments. Our program provides complete diagnosis and treatment plans for people with inherited cardiovascular conditions. Neurogenetics Program We specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of inherited diseases of the nervous system. Our dedicated medical, behavioral, and surgical specialists work together to provide individualized evaluation and care for patients and families with these genetic disorders. Child Study Center We aim to advance the understanding of the causes of child and adolescent psychiatric disorders and provide individualized treatments. At NYU Langone, we provide comprehensive gynecologic care and services to support your health and wellbeing at every stage of life, from annual wellness exams to family planning services to managing menopausal symptoms. We welcome people of all gender identities and expressions who need obstetric and gynecologic care. Annual Wellness Exams Our doctors and provide annual wellness exams to screen for gynecologic and breast cancers and gynecologic conditions that may affect reproductive and sexual health. During this visit, we can answer your questions and address any health concerns, including family planning, cancer prevention and screening, and fertility issues. This annual exam may include a Pap test to screen for precancerous changes to the cervix and cervical cancer. Our providers may also perform a human papillomavirus (HPV) test, which helps determine whether you are at high risk for developing cervical cancer. Our providers can also review recommendations for getting an HPV vaccine , which can prevent cervical cancer. Other services may include a clinical breast exam, a mammogram referral, or another breast cancer screening test , depending on your age, family history, and other individual risk factors. We can also help you make lifestyle changes as part of preventive care. This can include counseling in nutrition and weight loss, and referrals to programs such as our and the NYU Langone smoking cessation program. Your annual visit is tailored to you. Our team takes the time to learn about your personal and family history so they can make individualized recommendations and create personalized treatment plans. We are eager to partner with you in your care. Treatment for Menstrual Disorders Painful and irregular menstruation is one of the most common health problems that our providers manage. We offer medical workups that may include taking a full health history, conducting blood work, and ordering imaging tests. We provide gynecologic care for women at every stage of life, from adolescence to menopause. We work with you to develop your treatment plan, which may include lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise to alleviate symptoms, over-the-counter and prescription medications to regulate menstrual cycles, or surgery and integrative care. Our clinicians are skilled in management of , such as Our providers value talking with you about your family planning preferences. We offer compassionate counseling and care for people making decisions about building their family and about reproductive health. Our providers diagnose early pregnancy complications. We also offer abortion services and manage early pregnancy loss. We test for sexually transmitted diseases, and we help people who have complex medical histories or who have had past difficulties with contraception find safe, effective birth control. Sexual and Vulvar Health Services We provide testing for sexually transmitted infections, such as , gonorrhea, and chlamydia. Our providers can talk about ways to prevent HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases and how to discuss these issues with sexual partners. Our providers can also help manage sexual dysfunction, including painful intercourse. We may refer you to pelvic floor physical therapy or other treatments to improve sexual function, including hormone therapy and medications, and surgical management. Through our Center for Vulvar Health at , we provide advanced treatment for skin conditions that affect the vulva. These include chronic itching or irritation, vulvar pain, and skin conditions such as lichen sclerosus, lichen simplex chronicus, and lichen planus. Menopause Management Our doctors diagnose and treat symptoms of perimenopause, such as hot flashes, night sweats, and fatigue, which can occur months to years before , the absence of a menstrual period for a year. Therapies to alleviate perimenopause symptoms may include lifestyle changes such as weight loss or smoking cessation, supportive measures like psychological counseling, and such as hormone replacement therapy and serotonin reuptake inhibitors. may also be recommended, because perimenopause is a sign of a lower estrogen level, which can lead to bone loss. Specialized care for the menopause transition is provided through our Center for Midlife Health and Menopause Surgical Innovation at the Aortic Center , our doctors are innovators in aortic surgery and use the latest techniques to ensure you receive the highest-quality care. Our experts specialize in surgery for all types of aortic aneurysm , a bulge in the aortic wall that can lead to serious and sometimes life-threatening , or rupture. We also surgically manage and other aortic conditions. Our doctors aim to preserve the aortic valve whenever possible, rather than replacing it with an artificial one. Natural valve tissue tends to last longer than an artificial valve, making preservation especially beneficial to younger patients. Experts in Aortic Aneurysm Surgery Our doctors specialize in repairing aortic aneurysms that can be especially dangerous. These include aortic root, aortic arch, and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. Aortic Root Aneurysm Repair The aortic root is closest to the heart. In addition to the risk of aortic dissection, an aneurysm on the aortic root can also damage the aortic valve. We are one of the top centers with expertise in repairing aneurysms in the aortic root without aortic valve replacement, a procedure known as valve-sparing aortic root replacement Aortic Arch Aneurysm Repair An aortic arch aneurysm occurs in the section where the artery curves up and away from the heart. The aortic arch connects to vessels that supply blood to the head and arms. Aortic arch aneurysms usually require surgery to replace the arch and vessels, or a hybrid procedure that includes open surgery followed by a stent graft—a fabric-covered mesh tube that seals and strengthens the wall of the aorta, allowing the aneurysm to shrink. The stent is placed with a minimally invasive procedure known as endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) . We also perform aneurysm repair in patients who previously had this surgery at another institution but who had poor results. Thoracoabdominal Aneurysm Repair A thoracoabdominal aneurysm occurs in the portion of the aorta that extends from the chest and abdomen, where numerous vessels supply blood to the liver, kidneys, intestines, and spine. When this portion of the aorta needs to be repaired or replaced, there is a risk of reduced blood flow to these areas. Our surgeons have extensive experience in the techniques used to create bypasses that maintain blood flow to these organs and the spine. They may use EVAR to shore up the aorta, while also allowing blood to flow through its connected veins and to vital organs. The Latest Approaches to Aortic Dissection Our expertise in the care of complex aortic aneurysms translates to treatment for all types of aortic dissection . We use minimally invasive endovascular approaches, open surgery , and a hybrid of the two to create treatment strategies for each patient’s individual diagnosis. Leaders in Aortic Valve Disease Surgery For aortic valve disease, our surgeons may recommend repairing the aortic valve to preserve your own tissue. If you are not a candidate for an aortic valve repair, we offer methods of aortic valve replacement. The Ross Procedure We are one of the leading centers in New York City to offer the Ross procedure, an innovative approach to aortic valve disease that is particularly suited for young, active people. The Ross procedure relies on the body’s natural tissue to repair the aortic valve. It is a durable, long-term option for valve replacement that avoids dependence on blood thinners, which are needed when an artificial valve is used. Aortic Valve Replacement Surgery If a procedure using natural tissue is not an option for you, our doctors may offer open . Our surgeons may use a bioprosthetic valve, which is made from either a cow (bovine) or pig (porcine) tissue, or a mechanical valve, made of metal. Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement We also offer , also known as TAVR, a minimally invasive approach to aortic valve disease. Advanced Surgical Facilities offers single-bed inpatient rooms, providing more comfort and privacy for patients. It is one of the most digitally integrated and sophisticated inpatient facilities in the country, designed to maximize the level of care for each patient. Event Details Thank you for organizing an event to support NYU Langone! Please submit the event details below. If you have any questions, please contact Step of 20% Host Information Name Title First Last Address Street Address Address Line 2 City State / Province / Region ZIP / Postal Code Country Please tell us about your relationship with NYU Langone Health. Event Information Event Name Event Type Event Date MM slash DD slash YYYY Rain date, if applicable Venue Name Venue Address Was this event held previously? Fundraising Fundraising goal amount ($) Estimate Expenses ($) Estimated Donations ($) Event Promotion How do you plan to fundraise for your event? Ticket sales Outright donation Sponsorships Raffles Other How will you promote your event? Invitation Flyers Is this event invitation only or open to the public? Event Agreement Please read and confirm your consent to the policy and community event agreement by checking the box below. (Required) I agree to the privacy policy. Event Host • You agree to be responsible for the operation of the event, including all costs and expenses associated with the event, and to conduct the event in a safe, lawful, and professional manner. • You may use the name of NYU Langone Health only to inform the public about your event. • You are responsible for providing NYU Langone Health with the names and addresses of donors who make cash donations (if they wish to be acknowledged by NYU Langone Health) and a full description of any items donated for silent/ live auctions. • Post-event recaps need to be submitted to NYU Langone Health at CommunityGiving@nyulangone.org for evaluation with a complete accounting of funds collected and related expenses. • Approval for the event is specific to dates and locations listed on the pre-event form. Annual events must submit a new form each year. • Under no circumstances may an event associate itself with a tobacco-related company or product or any other vendor that would not be an appropriate representation of NYU Langone Health. Event Planning • You are responsible for the planning, marketing, operation, and cost of the event. • You agree that out-of-pocket costs for the event will not exceed more than 20% of total funds raised. • You agree to submit to NYU Langone Health drafts of all the event materials for review by NYU Langone Health to CommunityGiving@nyulangone.org. • You agree to conduct the event in a safe manner and comply with all applicable laws. For example, drawings, sweepstakes, sales of products by businesses with a promise to donate a portion of the proceeds, and other similar activities are legally regulated and may require permits and registrations. You also might be required to collect and remit sales tax in certain circumstances on some auction sales. • If the host chooses to serve alcohol, they are solely responsible for ensuring compliance with all laws and regulations, and assume all liability for any form of negligence that may arise from the consumption of alcohol. • If applicable, the host must obtain its own liability insurance to cover the event. NYU Langone Health will not insure the event and the organizer must obtain all insurance, including premise liability and worker’s compensation. • You agree to pay over the proceeds from the event to NYU Langone Health. • You will keep accurate financial records of the event and make them available to NYU Langone Health. • You agree that all event promotional materials will include the following information in a clear and uniform format: (i) any flat donation (e.g., the exact percentage of the retail purchase price or the fixed dollar amount per purchase) that will be donated to NYU Langone Health, (ii) any limits (maximum or minimum) on the total amount to be donated to NYU Langone Health, (iii) whether any consumer action is required to trigger a donation, and (iv) the start and end dates of the event. You shall be responsible for handling all monies in connection with the event. NYU Langone Health Abilities To support your event, NYU Langone Health will: • Provide gift receipts for direct contributions made to NYU Langone Health; • Provide informational brochures or fact sheets about our programs and services for the event; • Authorize use of NYU Langone’s name upon review and approval of the event materials; • Provide written tax receipts to donors who make direct contributions to NYU Langone Health or make contributions through NYU Langone’s online giving platform dedicated to your event. Unfortunately, NYU Langone Health is unable to: • Release names of patients, former patients, donors, trustees, volunteers, employees, physicians or mailing lists for any purposes including event invitations; • Offer funding or reimbursement for expenses related to the event; • Create or provide event invitations; • Permit the use of the NYU Langone logo; • Promote the event through NYU Langone publications and media outlets including social media and email; • Take responsibility for selling tickets to the event and/or promoting the event; Guarantee staff, volunteer or patient/family attendance at the event; • Provide auction items or create and maintain an online silent auction including storage and safeguarding of auction items. NYU Langone Health reserves the right to: • Decline any proposed event. • Approve all uses of its name and revoke its permission at any time at its sole discretion. • Return donations if the way that the donation was received unlawfully or otherwise unacceptable to NYU Langone Health (e.g. donations from gambling events). • Use any videos or photographs sent by you for its general marketing purposes without cost, credit, or attribution to the organizer. You agree that sending us your videos and photos sent to us constitutes permission for NYU Langone Health to use them. • Use event information through all media and online channels, including but not limited to Facebook, Twitter, and the philanthropic giving site. Sala Institute Ways to Donate TO DONATE BY CHECK Please make your check out to “NYU Langone Health” and kindly mail it to the address below along with “Sala” in the memo line: Attn: Gift Administration TO DONATE BY DONOR ADVISED FUND (DAF) To recommend a grant to NYU Langone Health from your donor advised fund, please contact your sponsoring organization directly and provide them with the following EIN for NYU Langone Hospitals: 13-3971298. Please indicate 1 Park Avenue, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10016 as the mailing address and be sure to indicate “Sala” as the gift purpose. TO DONATE BY WIRE Wire transfer for gifts of cash to NYU Langone Hospitals should be sent to the following with “Sala” identified as the gift purpose: Bank: Bank of America 100 West 33rd Street New York, New York 10001 ABA/ROUTING#: 0260‐0959‐3 OR SWIFT: bofaus3n NAME OF ACCT.: New York University Account #: 4834478066 FOR ACH ONLY: ABA/ROUTING#: 021000322 Either you or your physician can request a consultation with a doctor at NYU Langone’s by calling us at . We offer a range of tests that can diagnose early heart disease and assess the risk factors that predispose a person to heart disease and The tests we offer include the following: 24-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring Blood pressure readings taken during an office visit may be abnormally high—“white coat” hypertension—or falsely low, called masked hypertension. To determine whether patients have high blood pressure and require treatment, we provide them with a portable device that records their blood pressure over a 24-hour period. Advanced Lipid Profile An advanced lipid profile test gives us a more accurate picture of your risk for cardiovascular disease than the standard lipid profile test taken during an annual physical. With an advanced lipid profile test, we can measure the individual particle size and numbers that make up LDL (bad) and HDL (good) cholesterol, which can better predict your risk for heart disease and stroke. This test may be particularly beneficial for people already on statins, those with or prediabetes, and for people with a family history of early heart disease or stroke. Ankle-Brachial Index The ankle-brachial index test measures the blood pressure in the arm and then compares it with the blood pressure in different segments of the legs to screen for , which may indicate atherosclerosis in the arteries of the aorta or lower extremities. The test is useful for determining decreased blood flow, even at early stages of disease, which can change the course of treatment. Carotid Intimal-Medial Thickness Evaluation Carotid intimal-medial thickness (IMT) evaluation is used to measure the thickness of the wall of the carotid artery in your neck. The thickening of the carotid artery or the presence of plaque can identify early vascular disease, which increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. Coronary Calcium Scoring In a coronary calcium scoring test, are taken of the heart to detect the amount of calcified plaque on your coronary artery walls. Plaque can block blood flow to your heart and be an indicator of early cardiovascular disease. High-Sensitivity C-Reactive Protein A blood test can detect increased levels of a protein known as high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP), which may signal inflammation in your arteries. This inflammation may contribute to atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, and increase your risk of heart attack or stroke. Advanced Lipoprotein (a) Testing About one in five people have elevated lipoprotein (a), also known as Lp(a), an inherited, independent risk factor for early heart disease and stroke. Lp(a) testing is a blood test that is particularly beneficial for people with a family history of early heart disease, and for people with heart disease but no known cardiovascular risk factors. Metabolic Panel People with metabolic disorders such as diabetes and prediabetes are at greater risk of early heart disease and blood clotting. Early detection of abnormal metabolic health can guide lifestyle changes and medication therapy to help prevent diabetes and serious diabetes-related health problems. Thrombosis Screening Thrombosis, or blood clots, contribute to heart attacks, strokes, vascular disease in the legs, and sudden cardiac death. Blood tests can identify underlying causes of blood clots or otherwise unexplained vascular disease. Vascular Health Screening Abnormal vascular function is sometimes the first sign of cardiovascular disease and may demonstrate that disease has already started to affect the arteries. People with abnormal vascular function are at heightened risk for heart attacks, strokes, and other cardiovascular events. Monitoring vascular health over time may be useful in helping to assess the effectiveness of certain therapies. , we know that proper nutrition is critical to maintaining and improving your cardiovascular health. Through our Heart Healthy Nutrition Program, we help you improve your overall wellness. Heart Healthy Nutrition Program Appointments Appointments with our registered dietitian can be made online or by calling Each participant receives a customized meal plan to complement their medical treatment and reach their wellness goals. Our program is tailored for people at risk for or who have received a diagnosis of cardiovascular disease , or who have excess body weight or . You learn how to make healthy food choices that can help control , manage metabolic syndrome or diabetes, and help you achieve your weight loss or weight management goals. First you meet with our registered dietitian to discuss your medical and diet history and your social habits. We then help you find ways to bring a healthier way of eating into your day-to-day life. With your approval, our dietitian talks to your doctor before and after your appointment to ensure the best approach is taken to your cardiovascular health. With our meal plans, you won’t feel deprived, should not feel hungry, and can eat out or cook at home. We provide meal and snack ideas based on your budget and taste preferences and can provide food coaching to support you as you adopt a new way of eating. Our meal plans incorporate aspects of these heart-healthy diet plans: Mediterranean diet, which focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and monounsaturated fats Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, also known as DASH, a low-sodium program that emphasizes vegetables, fruit, and low-fat dairy and protein sources American Diabetes Association dietary guidelines, which focus on portion control and limiting meat and foods high in starch, such as potatoes and corn Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes diet, developed by the National Cholesterol Education Program, which is low in saturated fat and cholesterol We recommend meeting with the dietitian regularly, so you can receive consistent support and guidance as you adapt to a new way of eating. A variety of major health insurance plans are accepted. We recommend you contact your health insurance provider to confirm whether nutrition counseling is covered under your plan. If your plan does not cover medical nutrition therapy or if you do not have health insurance, we offer a reduced self-pay rate. Our registered dietitian, Heather A. Hodson, RDN , helps people make sustainable changes to reduce their risk of heart disease and promote better overall health by taking an approach that is fully centered on the patient. Appointments can be scheduled online Adopting a physical fitness routine is one of the most important things you can do to improve your cardiac health. Physical activity improves multiple cardiovascular risk factors, including blood pressure, blood sugar, body weight, and stress, and has the unique ability to improve blood vessel function. Whether you are new to exercise or a seasoned athlete, we invite you to learn more about how our fitness-focused and sports cardiology programs can help you safely reach your fitness potential. Fitness-Focused Cardiology Program The fitness-focused cardiology program is geared toward people who are new to an exercise routine or who need guidance in building and maintaining a new commitment to exercise. We believe exercise is medicine, and that everyone benefits from a prescribed exercise routine that fits their body, age, and health status. Dr. Sean P. Heffron helps people of all fitness levels safely start and maintain an exercise program. Our program is led by Dr. , a cardiologist with specialized training in exercise physiology. Dr. Heffron assesses your history with exercise, current fitness level, and medical status to develop a plan to improve your cardiovascular health through physical activity and focused exercise. He provides practical advice on starting and maintaining an exercise program and recommendations on the right types of exercise for you. This is done in collaboration with your doctor and dietitian and with specialized attention to your cardiovascular health history. Schedule an exercise consultation with Dr. Heffron or call Sports Cardiology Service Dr. Heffron has teamed up with cardiology services through NYU Langone Sports Health to provide specialized care for athletes and active people of all ages. This includes specialized care for athletes with heart conditions and athletes who are predisposed to developing a heart condition, including people who have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or other lipid disorders. The team at NYU Langone’s Cardiovascular Thrombosis Program offers comprehensive care to patients with inherited or acquired clotting disorders, backed by the latest research available. Our team is actively involved with clinical trials and regularly collaborates with expert investigators, clinicians, and statisticians from NYU Langone’s to bring you the most innovative and effective care possible. A thrombosis is an excessive or dangerous blood clot that forms in a vein or artery. If you develop a blood clot, you may have many questions about why it occurred, the possibility of it happening again, and how to prevent it from reoccurring. Our team of specialists provides complete evaluation, diagnosis, and disease management services for people with clotting conditions or who currently have a blood clot. We treat patients with a variety of thrombotic conditions, including: hypercoagulable conditions, where your blood clots too much platelet hyperreactivity, or sticky platelet syndrome venous thromboembolic events, where the blood clots in the venous system, such as deep venous thrombosis pulmonary embolism arterial clotting, such as heart attack or graft or stent thrombosis, which is clotting around a prior stent or a bypass graft unexplained clotting disorders We also offer assistance in preventing excessive coagulation of your blood before, during, and after surgery, and the management of antiplatelet therapies, which are medicines that stop blood platelets from sticking together and clotting. We perform platelet testing, coagulation testing, and genetic testing to help guide anticlotting strategies, and develop a treatment plan tailored especially for you. Dr. Jeffrey S. Berger is an internationally renowned expert in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of clotting disorders. Venous Thromboembolic Center We offer superior care for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism through streamlined diagnosis and treatment. Heart Programs Our cardiothoracic surgeons and interventional cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care, specializing in minimally invasive procedures and surgery for conditions that affect the aorta, arteries, valves, veins, and heart. Our team of cardiologists can help you lower your risk for heart attack, stroke, and other cardiac and vascular conditions. Our doctors provide complete diagnosis and treatment plans for people with inherited heart rhythm conditions. Vein Center We offer minimally invasive vein treatments that our surgeons can perform in our offices. 212-263-4310 We see patients in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and on Long Island. TAVR Experts Our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons have performed more than 5,000 transcatheter aortic valve replacements, among the most in the U.S. Leaders in MitraClip We’re busiest in the Northeast for transcatheter mitral valve procedures, and have performed more than 500 MitraClip® procedures. Interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone’s Transcatheter Heart Valve Program are among the most experienced in the country at performing nonsurgical procedures to repair and replace heart valves. We are leaders in mitral valve repair with MitraClip , transcatheter mitral valve replacement, and triscuspid valve repair and replacement. During a transcatheter procedure, we use a blood vessel in the leg to access the heart valve. After this nonsurgical treatment, people live longer, experience improved quality of life, and have fewer symptoms of heart valve disease, including shortness of breath, than people whose valves are not repaired or replaced. In many cases, transcatheter procedures are safer than traditional open heart surgery, which requires a large incision and longer recovery time. , we also partner with surgeons at the , who use minimally invasive and robotic techniques to treat mitral valve disease. Our TAVR Expertise Our heart experts have performed more than 5,000 TAVR procedures—among the most in the country—to treat people with . We are pioneers in the field and were the first in the world to perform an advanced type of TAVR using the new Medtronic CoreValve™ Evolut™ R Pro System. Our survival rates are among the best in the country, and most patients require only a one-day hospital stay, compared with a national average of three days. Procedures are performed using conscious sedation, which uses a sedative and an anesthetic to relax you and block any pain, and has a faster recovery period than general anesthesia. Nearly all of our patients—96 percent—go home the day after procedure. Only 4 percent require a pacemaker after the procedure, and the risk of or death is less than 1 percent. This far exceeds national averages. Our TAVR team in Manhattan is led by Dr. Mathew R. Williams , who has performed more TAVR procedures than any surgeon in the country. Procedures are performed in our state-of-the-art hybrid operating rooms at NYU Langone’s , which features single-bedded rooms for all of our patients. TAVR is an option for many people who need treatment for aortic valve disease. This includes those classified as high-risk who for medical reasons would not be a candidate for open heart surgery, as well as people who are considered low-risk for complications due to their relatively young age and overall good health. We are pioneers in the use of TAVR in low-risk patients, and were part of the clinical trial that made the treatment available to this group. Our doctors work with you to determine whether TAVR is the best treatment for you. If another approach is better suited to your condition, our surgeons are also experts in all forms of cardiac valve