1. Unless otherwise noted, furnish mop plates on all doors, with the exception of closet doors within rooms. Mop plates shall be 6” high x 2” less than door width x .050 thick x beveled three sides. a. Approved Manufacturers: No other manufacturer’s products are approved. Trimco, Rockwood and Ives. C. Armor Plates: 1. Unless otherwise noted, furnish armor plates on all doors that are subject to heavy abuse. Armor plates shall be 34” high x 2” less than door width x .050 thick x beveled three sides. Armor plates furnished on fire rated doors must have a UL listing. a. Approved Manufacturers: No other manufacturer’s products are approved. Trimco, Rockwood and Ives. 1.6 Flush Bolts A. Automatic Flush Bolts: 1. Furnish automatic flush bolts on both fire rated and non fire rated pairs of doors where there is an inactive leaf. a. Approved Manufacturers: No other manufacturer’s products are approved. Ives: FB31P 12 MD 32D for all metal doors Ives: FB41P WD US32D for all wood or composite doors B. Manual Flush Bolts: 1. Manual flush bolts shall not be permitted. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 347 2024 1.7 Automatic Operators 1. Unless otherwise noted, all Automatic Operators shall be Stanley Magic Force surface mounted. Specify all associated products required to meet ANSI A156.10. 2. The Architect shall specify that all automatic operators be furnished and installed by a Stanley authorized installer. The same automatic operator provider and installer shall also furnish and install all electronic locking hardware, as may be required, for all automatic operated doors. 3. The Architect shall include in their documents all wiring, power and control required to the automatic operator and accessories. a. Approved Manufacturers: NO SUBSTITUTIONS. STANLEY: Magic Force x Alum. 4. The Architect shall specify automatic operators on: a. ALL Clinical Building Exterior Doors, b. ALL Clinical Departmental Entrances, and/or c. Doors between waiting areas/rooms and clinical areas beyond where the patient population is likely to have either mobility issues (i.e. orthopedics, rheumatology, rehabilitation, ophthalmology, etc.) or where stroller use is anticipated. 1.8 Card Access Doors 1. The Architect shall coordinate all security and electrical requirements with the security consultant and the electrical engineer. Where card readers are furnished, an electric lock with built in request to exit switch shall be installed (see 1.2.G above). The Architect shall indicate which doors are required to have door and frame preparation for door contacts. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 348 2024 2.1 Typical Hardware Sets (by Room Type) A. The following is a general listing of hardware requirements and is not intended for use as a final hardware specification. It shall be the responsibility of the Architect to specify any items of hardware required by established standards or practices, or to meet state and local codes or proper door operation. Coordinate final door hardware requirements with user groups. This hardware set is used for doors to private offices that are non fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Office Lock Sargent 8205 x LL x LC x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for doors to private offices that are fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Office Lock Sargent 8205 x LL x LC x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head This hardware set is used for doors to single stall public or staff toilets, changing rooms, wellness/quiet rooms that are non fire rated and fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Privacy Set Sargent 49 8265 x LL x US26D 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A Note: NYU Langone Long Island uses Arrow and Sargent privacy sets. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 349 2024 This hardware set is used for doors to patient toilets within a patient room that swing out of the toilet. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Spring Hinge (to match) x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Mop Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head This hardware set is used for doors to patient toilets within a patient room that swing into the toilet. Each to have: 1 set Pivots Rixson 127 ¾ x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Emergency Release Stanley ES 1 x US26D 1 Double Lip Strike Stanley DLS series x US26D 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 2 Kick Plates (see description) x US32D 2 set Sight Seals Zero 335A @ wood doors 2 set Sight Seals Zero 137P @ metal doors Note: Sight seals to be installed at pivot side and lock side of door only. Where marble saddles are used, mount pivot set on top of the marble saddle. Saddles shall have no lip, even if permissible by code, as patients cannot navigate with IV pole. This hardware set is used for doors to conference rooms, consulting rooms, and administrative staff lounges that are non fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for doors to conference rooms, consulting rooms, and administrative staff lounges that are fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 350 2024 This hardware set is used for doors to lactation rooms that are non fire rated and fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Lock Set Sargent 8250 x LL x US26D 1 Closer Dorma (see description) x Alum 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Electric Strike Von Duprin 6216 x FSE x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors 1 Door Contact (by security vendor) 1 Card Reader (by security vendor) Operation: Non Secure Side: Card reader unlocks electric strike. When deadbolt is thrown for privacy, it locks out the card reader. Secure Side: Free egress. Turning inside lever retracts latch bolt and deadbolt simultaneously. This hardware set is used for doors to utility type rooms (i.e. clean and soiled utility, clean and soiled linen, janitor’s closet, storage room, medical waste holding) that are non fire rated and fire rated and do not require access control. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Combination Lock (see description) x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 351 2024 This hardware set is used for double doors to utility type rooms (i.e. clean and soiled utility, clean and soiled linen, janitor’s closet, storage room, medical waste holding) that are non fire rated and do not require access control. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 2 Automatic Flush Bolts (see description) x US26D 1 Combination Lock (see description) x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 2 Closer/Hold Open LCN 4040XPH x 689 1 Coordinator Trimco 3094 series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 2 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 2 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for double doors to utility type rooms (i.e. clean and soiled utility, clean and soiled linen, janitor’s closet, storage room, medical waste holding) that are fire rated and do not require access control. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 2 Automatic Flush Bolts (see description) x US26D 1 Combination Lock (see description) x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 2 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Coordinator Trimco 3094 series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 2 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head 2 Astragal Seals Legacy 799A This hardware set is used for doors to closets within rooms that are non fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Combination Lock (see description) x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 352 2024 This hardware set is used for doors to patient rooms. Each to have: Swing Clear Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Hospital Push Pull Latch GJ (see description) x US26D 1 Friction OH Stop Rixson 1 or 9 series x US32D 1 Armor Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Mop Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for doors to patient isolation rooms. Each to have: Swing Clear Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Hospital Push Pull Latch GJ (see description) x US26D 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Armor Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Mop Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for doors to exam rooms that are non fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A This hardware set is used for doors to exam rooms that are fire rated. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Passage Set Sargent 8215 x LL x US26D 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head This hardware set is used for all clinical staff lounges, medication rooms, on call rooms, clinical break rooms and any other space that is user required. Each to have: Hinges (see description) x US26D 1 Combination Lock (see description) x US26D 1 Cylinder Schlage (see description) x US26D 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 353 2024 This hardware set is used for all lead lined doors. Each to have: set Pivots Top and Bottom Rixson Pivot set L 147/ Center Pivot if needed ML 19 1 Classroom Lock Sargent 8237 x LL x LC x US26D 1 Cylinder Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Temporary Core Assa (see description) x US26D 1 Permanent Core (by NYU Langone) 1 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A Note: If doors are non fire rated, furnish hold open closers. Lock to be lead wrapped. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 354 2024 2.2 Typical Electrical Hardware Sets (by Door Type) A. The following is a general listing of electrical hardware sets. Coordinate with electrical engineer, security vendor and fire alarm vendor. This hardware set is used for all single doors with automatic operators no latching (see wiring diagram E1) Each to have: 1 Continuous Hinge Zero 910DBAA x CE4 (CE4 is for Presence Sensor) 1 set Push Pulls Trimco 1894 4B x US32D 1 Automatic Operator Stanley Magic Force x Alum 2 Presence Sensors BEA Super Scan 2 Wall Actuators WIKK x 4 x 4 2 x US32D 1 Door Stop Trimco (as required) x US26D 1 Armor Plate Rockwood (see description) x US32D 1 Mop Plate Trimco (as required) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A Operation: Wall actuator on either side signals automatic operator to open door. Free egress at all times. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 355 2024 This hardware set is used for all double doors with automatic operators no latching (see wiring diagram E2) Each to have: 2 Continuous Hinge Zero 910DBAA x CE4 (CE4 is for Presence Sensor) 2 sets Push Pulls Trimco 1894 4B x US32D 1 Automatic Operator Stanley Magic Force x Alum 2 Presence Sensors BEA Super Scan 2 Wall Actuators WIKK x 4 x 4 2 x US32D 2 Door Stop Trimco (see description) x US26D 2 Armor Plate Trimco (see description) x US32D 2 Mop Plate Trimco (as required) x US32D 2 Silencers Trimco 1229A Operation: Wall actuator on either side signals automatic operator to open door. Free egress at all times. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 356 2024 This hardware set is used for all single doors with card access (see wiring diagram E3) Each to have: Hinges PBB (as required) x US26D 1 Electric Hinge PBB 4 wire (to match) x US26D 1 Electric Lock Sargent RX8271 x LL x US32D 1 Door Closer LCN 1 Door Stop Trimco (see description) x US26D 1 Kick Plate Trimco (see description) x US32D 3 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors 1 Door Contact (by security vendor) 1 Card Reader (by security vendor) Operation: Non Secure Side: Card reader unlocks electric lock. Secure Side: Free egress. RX switch in electric lock shunts alarm. Emergency Operation: Non Secure Side: Door remains locked. Secure Side: Free egress. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 357 2024 This hardware set is used for all double doors with card access (see wiring diagram E4) Each to have: Hinges PBB (as required) x US26D 1 Electric Hinge PBB 4 wire (to match) x US26D 1 Electric Lock Sargent RX8271 x LL x US32D 2 Automatic Flush Bolts (see description) x US26D 2 Closer LCN 4040XP series x 689 1 Door Stop Trimco (see description) x US26D 2 Kick Plate Trimco (see description) x US32D 2 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors 2 Astragal Seals Legacy 799A @ fire rated doors 2 Door Contact (by security vendor) 1 Card Reader (by security vendor) Operation: Non Secure Side: Card reader unlocks electric lock. Secure Side: Free egress. AE switch in electric lock shunts alarm. Emergency Operation: Non Secure Side: Door remains locked. Secure Side: Free egress. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 358 2024 This hardware set is used for all double egress doors with card access (see wiring diagram E5) Each to have: 2 Continuous Hinge Zero 910DBAA x CE4 x EPT Note: CE4 is for the Presence Sensor and the EPT cutout is for the Electric Power Transfer 2 Electric Exit Devices Von Duprin ELRX 9827EO F x LBR x US26D 2 Automatic Operators Stanley Magic Force x Alum 1 Wall Actuator (Inside) WIKK x 4 x 4 2 x US32D 4 Kick Plates Trimco (see description) x US32D 2 Silencers Trimco 1229A @ non fire rated doors 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head @ fire rated doors 1 Astragal Seals Legacy DE FMA @ fire rated doors 2 Magnetic Locks Deltrex 810 DS x Alum 1 Power Supply Von Duprin PS873 2 1 Relay Module Deltrex 530 2ARCM2 2 Door Contacts (by security vendor) 1 Motion Sensor (by security vendor) 1 Card Reader (by security vendor) Operation: During normal operation, electric exit devices are electrically dogged to allow for automatic operators to open doors freely. Magnetic locks secure doors. When signaled from the fire alarm system, or loss of power, electric exit devices latch, automatic operators are shut off and magnetic locks unlock. Non Secure Side: Card reader unlocks magnetic lock and signals automatic operator to open both doors. Secure Side: Free egress. Wall actuator unlocks magnetic lock and signals automatic operator to open both doors. Emergency Operation: Non Secure Side: Door remains locked. Secure Side: Free egress. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 359 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 360 2024 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines DOOR HARDWARE Real Estate Development and Facilities 361 2024 This hardware set is used for all single locked stair doors (see wiring diagram E6) Each to have: Hinges PBB (as required) x US26D 1 Electric Hinge PBB 4 wire (to match) x US26D 1 Electric Lock Sargent RX8270 x LL x US32D 1 Closer LCN 1 Door Stop (see description) x US32D 1 Kick Plate Trimco (see description) x US32D 1 Power Supply Deltrex 551CCM ERI 1 Gasketing Legacy 5881S BK @ jambs/head Operation: Stair Side: During normal operation, doors are locked electrically from the stair side. When signaled from the fire alarm system, or loss of power, electric lock unlocks automatically. Egress Side: Free Egress at all times. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY Real Estate Development and Facilities 362 2024 ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY NYU Langone Health’s Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) division develops and manages programs that (1) protect personnel in all departments and on all levels from health and safety hazards, (2) ensure waste is discarded in an environmentally sound manner and (3) facilitate compliance with regulatory requirements for environmental and occupational health and safety. EH&S’s programs cover a broad spectrum of health and safety issues, including but not limited to: asbestos, biosafety, bulk storage tanks, chemical safety, ergonomics, fire safety, hazard communication, hearing conservation, indoor air quality, laboratory and animal safety, mold prevention and remediation, and waste management. 1. Architect’s Responsibilities The A/E Team, to the best of their ability, shall incorporate Best Management Practices for environmental and occupational health and safety into the design of the space. The A/E Team responsibilities include:  Anticipating, identifying and eliminating potential health and safety hazards (i.e. ergonomics, hazardous materials, noise, etc.) associated with the proposed use of the space, to the extent reasonably practical. Note: Eliminating hazards is not intended to limit creativity, but to ensure the designer minimizes foreseeable risks to the health and safety of those who: Carry out construction work, including demolition. May be affected by the project, including building occupants and the general public. Occupy the space post construction. Clean and maintain the space.  Specifying the least toxic, flammable/combustible and reactive products available for construction and renovation.  Where health and safety hazards cannot be eliminated, proposing alternate engineering controls to minimize or eliminate the risk.  The A/E Team shall use and comply with the design and safety regulations, guidelines and references listed in the References subsection below, as well as other health and safety guidelines received from NYU Langone’s Project Manager or division of EH&S. The A/E Team shall utilize the latest editions of the references available at the time of the design contract award.  The A/E team shall design all clinical and research laboratories in accordance with the applicable codes and the latest edition of NFPA 45, Standard for Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals.  If the design does not incorporate Best Management Practices for environmental and occupational health and safety, and comply with the References listed below, the A/E design firm shall obtain approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY Real Estate Development and Facilities 363 2024  The A/E Team shall not specify any of the following without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: Chemical products containing known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens*. Chemical products containing toxic and hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z*. Chemical products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. Chemical products for which the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates the health, fire or reactivity hazard as greater than “1” (slight hazard) on the NFPA/HMIS scale or as less than “4” (slight hazard) on the GHS hazard scale. Chemical products which emit strong odors. * Exceptions may be made for products containing chemicals which do not pose a hazard to persons during their application/use (i.e. paints containing silica).  In order to minimize potential delays associated with asbestos abatement, the A/E Team shall submit a set of Design Development Drawings that identify the scope of work including complete Demolition Drawings. The Demolition Drawings shall provide sufficient information to initiate an asbestos investigation and pull a demolition permit. The Demolition Drawings submitted shall be the same drawings that are filed with the DOB.  The A/E Team shall confirm requirements for code required emergency/egress signage (i.e. stair and elevator fire egress maps and messaging) and health/safety signage (i.e. chemical, laboratory, hazardous material, radiation, etc.) with Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) at RED+F. 2. References (A/E Team to confirm applicable local, state and federal code requirements) Federal RegulationsConsensus Standards US DHHS US DOL OSHA 1910 and 1926 US EPA US FDA US NRC ACGIH ANSI ASHRAE ASTM BOCA NFPA State RegulationsErgonomics NYS DEC NYS DOH NYS DOL NYS Building and Fire Codes Facilities Guidelines Institute (FGI): Patient Handling and Movement Assessments: A White Paper NIH Design Requirements Manual NIOSH OSHA ICC A117.1, ANSI 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, Dept of Justice ANSI/HFES 100 2007 Local Regulations NYC Building and Fire Codes NYC DEP NYC DOHNYU Langone StandardsNoise Safety Policy Manual Radiation Safety Manual NSF TJC NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 364 2024 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY NYU Langone Health believes that healthy people and a healthy environment are inextricably linked. As a healthcare organization, it is imperative that we act as a community leader in environmental stewardship. Creating a vital and healing environment is also central to our mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research and is integral to the comfort and lifelong wellness of our staff, students and patients. This sustainability commitment extends across every facet of NYU Langone, including how we design, construct and operate our facilities. Furthermore, the health system recognizes the risks associated with climate change and has committed to being a carbon neutral health system by 2050 with an interim carbon reduction goal by 2030. The goal of NYU Langone’s sustainability program is to fulfill a quadruple bottom line approach where decision making is based on balancing the potential impacts on people, the planet, business economics and patient care. The goal is not only to design green buildings and use environmentally preferable materials, but to augment our benefit to the community and reduce the negative environmental and human wellness impacts of operations once occupied. Teams should ensure projects exemplify our key sustainability pillars of emissions mitigation, adaptation and resiliency to climate change, health promotion and demonstration of leadership. In line with that commitment we are providing additional information about NYU Langone’s sustainability program organized as follows: 1. Sustainable Building Design Guidelines 2. Green Roof and Solar PV Guidelines 3. Sustainable Furniture and Furnishings Guidelines 4. Sustainable Flooring Guidelines 5. Bicycle Transportation Guidelines 6. Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Guidelines 7. Building Energy Efficiency Rating Label Guidelines 8. Related Components or Policies More can be read about the scope and progress of NYU Langone’s sustainability program, called GreenFirst, at http://nyulangone.org/our story/sustainability. 1. Sustainable Building Design Guidelines For all new construction and major renovation (more than 25,000 square feet or projects that include significant MEP scope), NYU Langone requires the project to pursue Gold or higher level certification under the U.S. Green Building Council LEED v4 or v4.1 ratings system. Projects should assess the appropriate project type including BD+C, ID+C or others that may apply. Designers are to discuss the LEED and energy performance requirements with the RED+F Project Manager and Energy & Sustainability Team from the outset and to follow and document an integrative design process. Where achievement of these goals presents significant hurdles for a project, the requirements should be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, and the Energy & Sustainability Team early during the design process. Good communication of goals, requirements and challenges will help all projects achieve the highest levels of performance and innovation while containing costs. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 365 2024 Designers shall assist NYU Langone Health with preparation of the Owner’s Project Requirements (OPR) document using the NYULH template to be provided by the Energy & Sustainability Team The OPR shall be a word document uploaded to BuildFlow as part of the Schematic Design, Design Development and Construction Documents phases. Each revision shall be dated. All changes shall be tracked to compare the current revised version to the previous. It shall be reviewed and approved by the RED+F PM and the Energy & Sustainability Team. The finalized version shall be submitted in pdf format to the Commissioning Agent of Record for review. This information is mandatory for LEED certification. If an option, projects must also complete a NYSERDA or whole building energy model simulation as part of meeting its LEED goals and take advantage of available funding or incentives for this work. This can include utility, State or Federal incentives including those outlined for either direct pay or Tax Credit (through the design professional) in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. In addition, projects that are 25,000 sq. ft. or greater and within New York City shall comply with emissions limits for its use type in compliance with Local Law 97. Such projects shall include a review of energy performance, carbon emissions and life cycle costs. The life cycle cost review shall include energy costs, operating costs and potential future LL97 or other penalties. Assumptions for utility rates, carbon pricing, escalators, discount rates and other components will be supplied to project engineers by the Energy & Sustainability Team and must be used in the economic analysis. The A/E Team may consult with the Energy & Sustainability Team regarding reasonable assumptions, space type assignments, campus carbon accounting, and any other aspects of LL97 as needed. For fit outs, interior only and smaller projects, the LEED and energy goals should be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, and the Energy & Sustainability Team at the outset of the design process to establish requirements and goals on a case by case basis. Other guidelines or certification standards that NYU Langone encourages project developers to take into consideration include the WELL Building Standard, the NYC Active Design Guidelines: Promoting Physical Activity and Health in Design, the CDC’s Fitwel standard, My Green Labs certification and resources from the International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories (www.i2SL.org). NYU Langone believes that LEED and green buildings aim to protect, restore and work in harmony with the local environment, existing transit infrastructure and underlying natural systems. In general, green buildings are energy efficient, water conserving, durable and nontoxic, with high quality spaces that incorporate nature. NYU Langone seeks to integrate the following features of well designed green buildings where possible and applicable:  Demonstrate resiliency and adaptability in response to a changing climate and extreme weather events.  Incorporate passive design strategies and maximize use of energy efficient infrastructure and renewable energy sources (with or without energy storage).  Reduce or eliminate reliance on fossil fuels to reach carbon emissions reduction targets.  Minimize building stormwater runoff by incorporating green roofs, gardens, permeable pavers, bioswells and other green infrastructure (GI) or low impact development (LID) techniques as well as maintain compliance with NYC LL94 where applicable. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 366 2024  Use native, pollinator friendly, and adaptive plants that minimize landscaping and irrigation needs and enhance the health of our ecosystem.  Incorporate green and open spaces and provide access to the outdoors for patients and staff.  Incorporate facilities and designs that encourage the use of alternative transportation methods, particularly biking, electric vehicles, and public mass transit.  Maximize use of natural lighting and provide views to the outside.  Reduce impact of noise and vibration through use of professional acoustical analysis and design services.  Provide for improved indoor air quality and minimize the use of chemicals of concern to increase the productivity of staff and reduce recovery time for patients.  Minimize or eliminate the use of mercury containing materials where safe, effective alternatives exist in compliance with NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 170.  Focus on material health. This includes compliance with the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, eliminating the use of formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), antimicrobials, and all flame retardants from all materials and finishes.  Focus on material and product circularity. This includes materials and products that incorporate recycled, locally and renewably sourced materials, and those that can be reused or upcycled at the end of life.  Provide well incorporated waste and recycling segregation and bins using the built environment to encourage proper recycling behavior in occupants (Refer to the Recycling Program subsection).  Support occupant mental and emotional health by implementing design strategies to ensure they are informed about their environment and have access to a variety of relaxation and social spaces. An integrative design approach and a life cycle assessment approach are both essential to meet these guidelines and marry green building with sustainable operations and resiliency for the life of the facility. Finding synergies between the built environment and eventual operations is an important concept. For example, incorporating a green roof feature can provide added insulation that lowers the use of energy while simultaneously managing stormwater runoff and reducing the heat island effect in the surrounding community. Or designing with the understanding that the chosen flooring material carries embedded energy, carbon, and natural resource footprints, but also that this material choice impacts how the facility needs to be cleaned post occupancy. Material decisions such as these can either facilitate or hinder a reduction in chemical and water usage as part of the required cleaning practices. Or that adding smart waste sorting stations that cater to the type of activity happening in a space (i.e. research, clinical, administrative, etc.) can ultimately drive employees to practice good recycling behaviors. In conclusion, by using an integrative project planning and design approach that brings in multiple stakeholders from the outset, project teams can more readily discover synergies and areas for true