have shown that, as a result of the workshops, most participants know more about how to protect themselves from pregnancy or STIs and are more likely to practice safer sex or abstain from sex ( and respectively, as reported on a post workshop survey). Eighty five percent of workshop participants completed at least of workshop sessions. Peer Education Groups Youth who complete the workshop series transition into the Project SAFE Teen Health Council, an introductory peer health education group. In the Teen Health Council, peer educators learn the basics of workshop facilitation, community event planning, and outreach strategies, while engaging in activities that focus on community and group connectedness. After completing the semester long Teen Health Council, teens can then transition into one of the advanced peer education groups. Facilitated by an adult project facilitator and a peer leader, the groups offer a variety of ways for youth to have a positive impact in their community. Since September 2016, Project SAFE has recruited and trained 192 Peers Educators. The current groups include:  Theater: Peer educators create and perform pieces that explore issues of safer sex, gender, culture, identity, and HIV/AIDS prevention using movement, poetry, and drama;  Media, Outreach and Branding: Peer educators use social media, such as Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook, and YouTube, to reach high risk youth and provide sexual health education;  Ambassadors: Youth are trained to facilitate sexual health workshops for their peers at schools and community events; 57  Social Activism: Participants select a reproductive justice issue and, with the guidance of a facilitator, initiate a project (such as a workshop or social media campaign) to address the issue. The goal is for at least of Teen Health Council participants to move to an advanced peer education group. While the overall retention for the 2016 2018 cohorts was below the target (), the retention for the 2017 2018 academic year was . Teens participating in peer education groups from 2012 2015 demonstrated statistically significant increases in: frequency of condom use; HIV knowledge; knowledge of HIV status; and knowledge of STD status. In addition, participants demonstrate increases in school connectedness and self efficacy, which have been shown to be protective factors against HIV infection. Community Events and Single Session Workshops: Throughout the year, peer educators and Project SAFE staff work collaboratively to produce a series of community events to promote teen sexual health. The events typically include performances from the arts based groups and an open mic session in which guests and community members can perform. Most of the community events also offer on site HIV testing and promote teen health services available through Project SAFE and other community organizations. The post event and post workshop surveys were redesigned and piloted in fall 2017/winter 2018 to better align with program design, context, and goals. Since September 2016, Project SAFE has hosted or performed at 41 community events, reaching 2,018 youth. The events consistently receive overwhelmingly positive feedback and young people report high likelihood of attending future Project SAFE community events and recommending events to friends ( of participants who completed surveys). Additionally, of participants who completed a survey indicated that they were likely to utilize a Project SAFE Teen Clinic in the future. Project SAFE also offers single session peer led sexual health workshops. Since September 2016, we have reached 1,180 young people through 39 single session sexual health workshops. Of workshops facilitated since the roll out of the revised post workshop survey, of participants who completed a survey left knowing the core HIV concepts from the workshop, of participants who completed a post workshop survey reported good or excellent HIV knowledge after the workshop (compared to before the workshop) and indicated they would use one of our Teen Health Clinics in the future. Teen Health Clinic: Project SAFE partnered with the Family Health Centers to establish the Teen Health Clinic, refining systems to be as teen friendly as possible and providing young people with a health care experience tailored to their needs. The Project SAFE Teen Health Clinic offers youth a non judgmental, personal approach to sexual health, with a teens only waiting room and a staff, including Project SAFE staff and peer educators, who are trained to use an empowering, strengths based approach. The clinic addresses the barriers youth experience in accessing sexual health services such as stigmatization, fear of parental disapproval, and lack of In 2018, the Project SAFE Peer Educators were featured on the New York Times Podcast, The Daily, discussing issues of consent. 58 access to confidential health coverage. The clinic offers a full range of sexual health counseling and clinical services. Since September 2016, 455 teens received STI testing and other services at the Teen Health Clinics in Park Slope and Sunset Park. Over 2,000 teens were screened for pre and post HIV exposure prevention needs (PEP and PrEP) at the Teen Health Clinics, workshops, and community events. Workshops for Youth Workers and Parents: Talking with youth about sex can be challenging. Project SAFE provides workshops and other support to youth organizations and parents to make these conversations easier. The Let’s Talk about Sex workshop covers basic principles of Motivational Interviewing, tips for starting the conversation, and making referrals to sexual health services. Since September 2016, seven workshops were provided to 34 youth workers and parents from Brooklyn College, John Jay Campus High School, and Project SAFE. Plans Over the next three years, Project SAFE will reach over 5,000 teens. Project SAFE plans to work with high schools connected to Family Health Centers at NYU Langone school based health center sites, reaching an anticipated 3,855 teens through 156 workshop series cycles. The program will use an additional evidence based intervention Making Proud Choices!(MPC), which has been shown to increase the consistency and frequency of condom use 3, 6, and 12 months after the intervention. Peer educators and staff will facilitate 78 single session workshops, reaching an anticipated 1,562 teen participants. Teens will host or perform at 17 community events over the next three years, reaching approximately 831 of their peers with core pregnancy, STD, and HIV/AIDS prevention and resource messages. One hundred and fifty two new teens will move from the Teen Health Council to advanced peer education groups. To support protective factors against HIV such as educational achievement, Project SAFE will establish biannual college and career panels for peer educators. Panelists will include Project SAFE alumni with varied academic and professional backgrounds. The events will be designed to provide youth with insight into the details of each field and help students to envision their future as college students and professionals. The program will reach 18 youth workers and parents through 125 single session workshops. Screenings will remain a core part of the program. Building on efforts to provide comprehensive HIV prevention services, Project SAFE will begin to administer substance abuse screenings. It is anticipated that through Project SAFE workshops, community events, and the Teen Health Clinic: 586 teens will receive HIV screenings; 3,855 teens will receive PrEP and PEP screenings; and 750 teens will receive substance abuse screenings. Teens will continue to be connected to appropriate community resources and services. Here’s what teens said about Project SAFE programs in 2018:  Project SAFE is like a home where I feel like myself. I’ve learned plenty here about sex education and also about myself. I can come here for help when I most need it.  The community is very welcoming and it helps me learn a lot/ it also helps me with feeling safe and knowing I have people.  The program actually made me aware and knowledgeable about HIV and safe sex, plus they do fun activities and there is interaction with other students. 59 D. ParentCorps Faculty and staff at NYU Langone Health’s Center for Early Childhood Health and Development (CEHD) have developed, delivered, evaluated, and continuously improved interventions to meet the needs of NYC pre kindergarten students and their families for more than two decades. ParentCorps, a family centered, evidence based intervention developed by CEHD faculty, aims to help parents and early childhood teachers to develop authentic relationships and to create safe, nurturing and predictable home and classroom environments in support of children’s learning, behavior and health. ParentCorps is implemented in partnership with school district and Pre Kindergarten (Pre K) program leaders as an enhancement to Pre K in historically disinvested neighborhoods, centering racial equity and the voices of people of color throughout all aspects of implementation. For families facing a multitude of challenges including poverty, racism, discrimination and immigration related stressors, ParentCorps has the potential to serve as a trusted and safe place of learning, cultural connection, and community building, providing a foundation to enhance social capital and meaningful relationships among parents and between schools and families. ParentCorps includes three components to help teachers and parents create environments that are safe, predictable, and nurturing for children:  A 14 week Social Emotional Development Curriculum implemented by classroom teachers in all pre K classrooms;  A 14 week Parenting Program for all families of pre K students facilitated by school based mental health professionals; and  Professional Development for school leaders, pre K teachers, mental health professionals, and parent support staff, including weekly coaching for pre K teachers and mental health professionals to support high quality program implementation. Two randomized controlled trials found that ParentCorps works as intended to promote self regulation in early childhood by strengthening adult capacity to support children’s skill development. Specifically, ParentCorps impacts important aspects of the home and classroom environments, including increased knowledge and use of effective practices (such as setting clear expectations, positive reinforcement) and more nurturing adult child interactions. ParentCorps also strengthens family engagement as perceived by both parents and teachers. ParentCorps impacts social emotional development in Pre K and prevents the development of mental health problems, including both emotional and behavioral problems, through second grade. ParentCorps leads to improved academic achievement by the end of kindergarten and that impact is sustained through second grade. In addition, for children who enter Pre K without strong behavior regulation skills, ParentCorps reduces early behavior problems and prevents the development of obesity and unhealthful behaviors through second grade. A 60 benefit cost analysis indicates that ParentCorps has the potential to yield cost savings of more than $2,500 per student. In sum, this robust evidence of long term impact across parent and child outcomes suggests a promising strategy to promote health and development and reduce racial and income disparities in health and education. Progress and impact Through the Community Service Plan, ParentCorps has partnered with the University Settlement Society, a large social service agency with three early childhood sites, and with the Earth School, an elementary school located on the Lower East Side. Since September 2016, ParentCorps has provided Professional Development to 160 teachers, teaching assistants mental health professionals, social workers and administrators. In addition, site based mental health professionals have implemented thirty 14 session series of the Program for Parents in English, Spanish, Mandarin and Cantonese, reaching 555 families. ParentCorps has translated and adapted manuals and materials so that they are culturally relevant for the participating families. All three sites at University Settlement implemented Friends School in Pre K classrooms, with ongoing support and coaching from the ParentCorps team. Friends School has been implemented in 45 classrooms since 2013, serving 583 students. A total of 38 teachers and mental health professionals received weekly coaching by ParentCorps to ensure high quality implementation and high levels of fidelity. Parents and caregivers who participated in the Parenting Program were asked to complete short feedback forms on their experience and their use of strategies and tools after each session. Ninety two percent of the parents indicated that their overall experience in the sessions over the 14 weeks was “Very Good” or Excellent”. More than of parents indicated that they felt supported and valued by the group members and that they felt comfortable sharing their concerns. Additionally, more than of parents indicated that the sessions helped University Settlement Society University Settlement is one of New York's most dynamic social service institutions with deep roots on the Lower East Side. Each year University Settlement's diverse programs help over 30,000 low income and at risk people build better lives for themselves and their families. With an impressive legacy as the first settlement house in the United States, University Settlement has been an incubator for progressive ideas for over 125 years, offering pioneering programs in early childhood education, literacy, mental health, arts education, and adolescent development that set the standard. From its earliest days, University Settlement has invested in a robust range of early childhood services, including education, mental health care, early intervention, childcare and arts and recreation. Today, University Settlement’s early childhood programs directly support nearly 1,600 New York City children each year. 61 them feel better and more confident about themselves as parents and that the topics helped them reach their goals for their child. Eighty nine percent of the families across all programs reported trying the strategies in the prior weeks. ParentCorps has been partnering with the Division of Early Childhood Education in the NYC Department of Education as part of the Pre K Thrive initiative. Since the launch of Pre K for All in 2014, New York City has been committed to ensuring high quality Pre K programming for all four year old children and to develop and sustain professional development for Pre K professionals working with this population. NYC Pre K Thrive is part of ThriveNYC, a citywide initiative to support the mental health of all New Yorkers. One of these initiatives is to provide a specialized professional learning track, Thrive Pre K Professional Learning, to Pre K teaching teams, to promote evidence based practices for family engagement and social emotional learning. ParentCorps is providing Thrive Professional Learning for 350 Pre K for All programs (350 leaders and about 3000 teachers) and professional learning to all Early Childhood Education Social Workers, who support all 1850 Pre K programs. The materials and lessons learned through implementation as part of the Community Service Plan have enriched the ParentCorps team’s capacity in delivering Professional Learning with teachers, assistants and leaders from district schools and centers. Additionally, the ParentCorps Fun with Feelings cards, which provide a playful way for families to help children learn about feelings and support social emotional skill building at home, have been translated into all official 10 languages within the NYC Department of Education. This was built off the work in translating and adapting materials for the Community Service Plan. The cards have been distributed to all Pre K for All programs and families in NYC since spring 2017. Program efforts at this time also include public private partnerships to scale and evaluate ParentCorps including three randomized controlled trials in nearly 200 Pre K programs in New York City. Here’s what parents said about how the ParentCorps programs were helpful to them:  I think that this program is AWESOME. I think more schools should have it.  I’m happy. Overall, I think that it’s a great thing for the bigger picture. Better parents, better kids, better society/community.  It has helped me to apply better parenting, positive strategies and stay consistent with it.  It has helped me try different strategies to help understand, and discipline my children.  Made me a better parent.  Nice to know others have similar issues, bonding with other parents, sharing strategies.  It is helpful to remind me of the strategies that have worked in the past, but are forgotten. Good to meet and hear the strategies and concerns of other parents, to know we have things in common.  Very helpful. Loved being able to communicate with my kids and have more understanding.  I think it is very important because parenting is hard and here I learned a lot about dealing with the negatives and challenges that come with being a mother. 62 Plans For this next phase of the CSP, we will continue our long standing partnership with University Settlement, assisting and supporting high quality early childhood programs on the Lower East Side and in Brooklyn. In addition, we plan to build on the considerable public and private investments in ParentCorps to develop and provide enhanced evidence based and culturally relevant digital products to New York City Department of Education Pre K for All programs within Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Since 2016, the Department of Education’s Division of Early Childhood Education (DECE) has invested in both the scale up of ParentCorps and the development of evidence based, culturally relevant policies, practices and products. ParentCorps is currently operating in 50 Pre K for All programs across all five boroughs, with the largest number of programs in Brooklyn. To reach and serve more programs, DECE contracted with CEHD to develop a range of services and products based on ParentCorps, including the Thrive Professional Learning series and the Fun with Feelings Cards. The NYC DOE, like school districts all over the country, seeks digital solutions to providing greater reach of existing services and products and improving uptake and use. Given these demands from school districts, and as CEHD is preparing to scale ParentCorps in other geographies, we have engaged colleagues from the Department of Population Health’s Digital Learning Lab to conduct a comprehensive digital needs assessment for ParentCorps implementation in NYC and across the country. We completed this assessment in December 2018, and we are now working toward building the ParentCorps technology platform and prioritizing products to be developed and activities for the next two years. As part of the Community Service Plan, we will prioritize the needs of the Sunset Park community as we develop digital solutions to improve ParentCorps and Thrive uptake and use. In Year 1, we will conduct a series of needs assessments across the 31 Pre K for All programs in Sunset Park, with focused user assessments in 10 pre K programs (10 leaders, 30 teachers, 30 families). The goal is to understand how the programs and families are engaging with existing ParentCorps and Thrive services and products, and to determine where there are opportunities to improve uptake and use of services and products through digital solutions. These activities will inform the specific digital products and solutions that CEHD will develop in Year 1, and distribute and assess in Years 2 and 3. 63 We envision that the users will be primarily pre K program leaders, administrators, mental health professionals and teachers; we will consider digital solutions for families as a secondary application. Digital solutions may include webinars and other digital professional learning resources for school personnel; facilitated learning communities for school personnel; editable surveys to assess family needs; a library of short videos that could be shared with families; and editable materials for engaging families. V. Cross Sector Capacity Building Initiatives A. Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium The Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium (BKHHC) formed after a year long assessment of the health and housing needs of the Sunset Park and neighboring areas in Southwest Brooklyn, completed in early 2018. Working closely with colleagues who created the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium, we are following a similar model for establishing a Consortium in Brooklyn. With an initial focus on Southwest Brooklyn, we invited members of area hospitals and community based organizations to join the BKHHC Steering Committee to set the mission, goals and priorities for the Consortium. The first meeting was held in June 2018, and the Committee has met quarterly since then. The mission of BKHHC is to be a collaborative network of healthcare, housing, and community providers with the shared goal of improving health equity by fostering relationships, developing infrastructure, and building capacity to support people with health and housing needs. Current member organizations of the Steering Committee are: Breaking Ground, CAMBA, Riseboro Community Partnership, Enterprise Community Partners, NYU Langone Health, NYU Brooklyn PPS, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Maimonides Medical Center, New York Presbyterian/Brooklyn Methodist Hospital, NYC Housing Preservation and Development, Empire BlueCross BlueShield HealthPlus, and the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium. Working with the Office of Government and Community Affairs at NYULH, we have met with representatives at the Brooklyn Borough President’s Office to brief them on the work of the Consortium and have attended Community Board 7 committee meetings related to housing and homelessness. The goal of the Consortium is to improve outcomes for vulnerable people in Brooklyn with overlapping health and housing needs. BKHHC will achieve this goal in the following ways:  Expand understanding of the healthcare, housing, and related needs of people in Brooklyn;  Build relationships with stakeholders serving a shared population;  Share, develop, and advocate for resources; and  Create sustainable models for health and housing partnerships. The priorities areas of the Consortium are to:  Develop a shared best practices screening tool for homelessness and housing instability 64 o Convene stakeholders working on this issue (hospitals, DOHMH, the Department of Homeless Services, H+H, housing advocacy groups); o Agree to standard housing assessment (VA questions, PRAPARE, etc.) that includes attention to eviction prevention; o Identify when the assessment will be completed (e.g. intake, registration, triage, assessment, discharge) and by whom (e.g. registrar, social worker, case worker, nurse, doctor, discharge planner); and o Establish documentation process (Z codes, EMR and/or RHIO alerts, CBO case management systems, etc.).  Increase understanding and coordination across sectors and organizations o Trainings; and o Events/activities to build relationships (e.g., interagency case conferences, Housing Marketplaces, Hospital Open House, CBO site visits).  Serve as a convening platform for community level discussions on medical respite  Keep abreast of other health and housing initiatives to avoid duplication, share learning, promote best practices, and bring successful efforts to scale  Develop an advocacy platform to expand the quality and availability of services, and the supply and affordability of housing Progress and impact The BKHHC has already made significant headway on a number of our priority areas. Over the past year and a half, we have:  Held two trainings in partnership with the Legal Aid Society: Preventing Evictions (9/26/18; 28 attendees) and Overview of Family Homelessness and Eviction Prevention Supplement (FHEPS; 11/7/18; 27 attendees);  Organized three case conferences focused on communication and work flow between hospitals and shelters/safe havens/supportive housing organizations on 10/17/18 (21 attendees), 11/28/18 (15 attendees), and 1/16/19 (17 attendees);  Drafted communication/responsibilities flow chart; participants included: NYULH, Maimonides Medical Center, Kings County Hospital, NYP/Methodist Brooklyn, Breaking Ground, CAMBA, Riseboro, Bronx Health & Housing Consortium; and  Set priorities for 2019 and beyond. Evaluations collected at each of our events indicate widespread satisfaction with the trainings, with the great majority of participants rating them as “Excellent” or “Good.” Additional trainings requested include: “Housing resources for undocumented residents,” “Homeless services 101,” “Health and housing issues of formerly incarcerated,” “Rental arrears assistance,” “Disability SSI/SSDI,” and “Dementia care and support.” In addition, in January 2019, we collaborated with the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium on the Hospital Homeless Count, which is conducted on the same night as the Department of Homeless Services’ Homeless Outreach Population Estimate (HOPE) Count. The Hospital Homeless Count supplements the HOPE Count with a survey of unsheltered homeless people in hospital emergency departments (EDs). The Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium assisted by establishing contacts in Brooklyn hospital EDs that had not previously taken part in the Hospital Homeless Count. We also conducted outreach to our stakeholders and community partners to 65 encourage people to sign up to volunteer to conduct the surveys in Brooklyn EDs. A number of members of our Steering Committee also took part. Plans As we have continued to expand our network and reach out to new partners, awareness of the Consortium is growing and we have extended our reach beyond Southwest Brooklyn. Over the next three years, we will:  Work with partners to offer a series of new trainings related to health and housing and make them widely available to interested hospital and CBO staff members in Brooklyn;  Continue holding case conference meetings to work on the flow chart to improve communication between shelters and hospitals regarding homeless clients’ visits to hospitals;  Use the case conferences to identify common issues and concerns and invite representatives from the Department of Homeless Services to engage in a dialogue about how these issues can be addressed;  Participate in the annual HOPE Count by working with Brooklyn hospitals to count homeless patients in the emergency room on that night (“Hospital Homeless Count,” led by the Bronx Health & Housing Consortium);  Conduct a medical respite needs assessment among partner hospitals in Brooklyn in order to estimate the number of homeless and housing insecure patients who could be discharged if medical respite beds were available;  Convene a group of policymakers and health care and housing/homeless organizations to develop coordinated approaches to screening for housing insecurity and referral; and  Continue to work with government officials and policymakers to keep them informed about our work and to find areas for collaboration to address housing as a social determinant of health. B. Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center With overarching twin goals of improving health for all and reducing health inequities, NYULH through Community Service Plan projects and other programs has developed, implemented and evaluated a portfolio of initiatives that employ community health workers (CHWs).∗ Relying on these frontline health workers who are trusted members of their communities, these programs, whether in clinical or community based settings, seek to enhance care, link services, improve community health, address social determinants of health, and build community leadership and capacity. Because of their shared life experiences with the communities they serve, CHWs are well positioned to provide culturally relevant care and health coaching for community members that face significant health disparities and barriers to care. Our CHW initiatives are located in a range of settings: community and faith based organizations, primary care practices, senior centers, barbershops and hair salons, low income ∗ As used here, CHWs refer to frontline health workers who are trusted members of their communities with a shared life experience with the patients/clients they serve. Other titles include Lay Health Workers, Peer Navigators/Counselors, Health Coaches/ Educators, Practice Facilitators. 66 housing. They are culturally tailored to address the needs of diverse populations and they have addressed a wide array of medical and socioeconomic issues: housing insecurity, food insecurity, job readiness, substance/alcohol use disorder, tobacco cessation, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, nutrition, cancer, hepatitis B, sleep apnea related metabolic syndromes, medication adherence, and mental health. Our CHW programs work across multiple levels of impact, including addressing individual health behaviors, fostering social and interpersonal support, and addressing policy, systems, and organizational levels. Our work in diverse neighborhoods in New York City and our international portfolio have allowed us to develop a deep expertise in the development and evaluation of CHWs programs tailored to the specific needs of immigrant and minority communities, thus offering models of care to reduce health disparities across diverse populations. Drawing on this deep experience, over the past year, we have established the CHW Research and Resource Center (CHW RRC) to serve as a resource to community based organizations, health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations that are planning, or seeking to strengthen, CHW initiatives. In addition, by engaging in rigorous research and evaluation we seek to build the knowledge base of this field, identifying and disseminating findings about what models work under what circumstances and for which populations. Our vision is to build a resource that creates and shares cutting edge knowledge and evidence to help inform the design, implementation and evaluation of CHW programs to improve health, reduce health inequities, and recognize and help build community capacity and leadership. 67 Progress and impact Beginning in the fall of 2017, a stakeholder group has met on a regular basis to develop a mission and vision for the CHW RCC and to set priorities. The group includes clinicians, researchers, staff and CHWs from across the NYULH community. In the first year, the focus has been on developing a CHW Learning Community, which has an in person and online component, to provide opportunities for professional development and social support. Advised and led by a CHW Learning Committee with a rotating membership of seven CHWs, the CHW Learning Community has hosted events, trainings, and workshops to build a strong community of CHWs across programs. The online component of the Learning Community is designed to allow CHWs to stay connected in between in person meetings and function as an interactive Facebook like website where members can contribute content, share (anonymized) stories, request advice, and post events on a calendar. Our plan is for the Learning Community to serve as a pilot and model for other groups of CHWs to support and extend peer learning, to foster workforce development, and to help develop future leaders in the field of population health. Over the past year, the Learning Community set priority activities for social support and professional development, including training on specific health topics (diabetes, mental health, intimate partner violence) and inviting speakers to talk about low income housing and legal aide. The group is also developing programs to strengthen professional skills related to preparing and giving presentations, professional writing, and train the trainer skills. 68 Plans Over the next three years we will continue to grow the Learning Community, documenting and sharing the work as a potential model. We also plan to build out a Repository of CHW materials the other core priority identified by the stakeholder group. This Repository is designed to support new and existing CHW programs, allowing users to upload and search for documents to help develop, implement and evaluate CHW programs (e.g., literature reviews, CHW job descriptions, program protocols, evaluation tools, etc.) Over the next three years, the CRC RRC will collect, curate and expand access to tools, guides, and other materials in the following areas: strategic program planning; recruitment and hiring; training and development; and program management/monitoring. The Repository will be available for use within NYULH, by our community partners and by other health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations that are planning, or seeking to strengthen, CHW initiatives. In the coming years, we will also explore ways to provide technical assistance for program development and evaluation and plan to convene expert researchers and practitioner from across the country, as well as key international leaders, to discuss developments in the field and to identify and prioritize best practices and key unanswered questions. C. Brooklyn Data Station The Brooklyn Data station provides the infrastructure to support our several community health needs assessments, to target resources by identifying areas of need, and to monitor trends. Its focus is primarily in Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn, but the Data Station has also provided support for our needs assessments in the Lower East Side and Chinatown. Progress Over the past year, the Data Station as acquired data from multiple sources through a mix of publically available, specialized data use agreements, and special requests of aggregate summaries. This includes a number of public datasets: US Census Bureau American Community Survey; New York City Health Department Community Health Survey; New York City Department of City Planning property tax parcel records; and New York City Department of Education school level enrollment and demographic records. These data have been used to describe the demographic, social, economic, housing, education and health in Sunset Park, Red Hook and Manhattan Community District 3. Housing and property data were also used to inform planning of Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium. See Appendix D. Areas of technical assistance Our work implementing CHW programs is supported by extensive experience in stakeholder engaged protocol development, which allows us to develop programs that are relevant to the settings in which they will be implemented; data analysis, which allows us to identify need, target resources, and measure impact; community based participatory research, which allows us to foster and learn from deep community partnerships; and mixed methods evaluation, including the development of innovative study design that can be used in applied practice settings and metrics that integrate physical health, economic stability, and other qualities of daily life to understand the impact of CHW programs in improving health and reducing cost. 69 The Data Station has also helped facilitate and support specialized data use agreements or requests for data from City agencies. Plans The vision for the Data Station is that it will provide the infrastructure that supports our efforts to improve population health by turning data into action. When fully operational, the Brooklyn Data Station will include:  Value added shared data and resource infrastructure, encompassing the spectrum from: o Data acquisition o Data repository o Data analytics o Data communication  Governance structure for data access and use  Knowledge networks (technical advisors; peer to peer resources)  Translation and dissemination (communicating data findings to various audiences for action) D. Red Hook Community Health Network During 2017 2018, The Alex House Project, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Good Shepherd Services, NYU Langone Department of Population Health, Red Hook Community Justice Center, and the Red Hook Initiative designed and conducted a Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA). Over 20 Red Hook organizations and more than 600 people who live or work in Red Hook participated and helped identify opportunities to connect the community’s strengths and needs to improve the health and wellbeing of Red Hook residents. Progress and Impact The Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment was completed in fall 2018. The CHNAA team responded to needs as they arose throughout the process. An existing education and home assessment program for people who have asthma and are on Medicaid was expanded to Red Hook. Materials about quitting smoking and lead exposure were also distributed to residents through CHNAA team organizations. During 2018 2019 we are Welcome to Red Hook mural by Groundswell located at the corner of Hamilton Avenue and West 9th Street. 70 finalizing the structure for the Red Hook Community Health Network, including hiring a coordinator. Plans In year one of the CSP, the Network will plan and implement a collaborative initiative to address the needs identified in the CHNAA and to connect and strengthen community assets. E. Addressing social determinants of health County Health Rankings estimates that social and economic factors, such as education, employment, income, family and social support, and community safety, account for of health outcomes, defined as the length and quality of life. Two promising strategies to address the interwoven social, economic, and environmental factors that impact health and wellbeing are widespread screening in primary care settings, and “warm” connections to services. For over three decades, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have played an important role in Brooklyn by helping connect patients and community members to services provided by both the FHCs and its partners to address social determinants of health, including food insecurity, education, housing and environment, and economic stability. The FHCs have piloted several efforts to integrate social determinant screening, referral and follow up across FHC sites and a consortium of community agencies. Our experience aligns with that of other organizations implementing similar processes:  Conducting broad reaching screenings at a person’s point of entry (be it in primary care or community based settings) can help support the whole person and family;  Many community members have more than one need; 71  People need assistance with navigating available community services both to prevent and to address crises;  People are more likely to connect to services through timely, warm handoffs from a trusted staff member; and  Both screening processes and services need to be culturally and linguistically appropriate. Plans Over the next year, we will continue to build the FHCs’ capacity to integrate SDOH screening into the fabric of service delivery through information technology, workflow processes, and staff development. We will also investigate the viability of modifying the existing medical legal partnership design to provide more culturally and linguistically tailored services for a larger suite of legal needs. Assuming feasibility, years two and three of the CSP will be dedicated to finalizing the initiative designs (including documenting the evidence base and anticipated impact and performance measures) and implementation. F. Incubation fund To foster new partnerships between NYULH and community based organizations and to provide an avenue to elicit input and new ideas, we are creating an incubation fund. A subcommittee of the Coordinating Council will develop an application and review process that encourages collaborative efforts to develop and implement evidence based programs to address the priorities identified in our CHNA: Preventing Chronic Diseases and Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children. Apart from the programs outlined above, which are supported directly by NYULH as part of the Community Service Plan, NYULH has numerous community programs that address unmet community need. See NYU Langone Health in the Community: 2017 2018. VI. Dissemination The Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan, together with our Progress Reports, are conspicuously posted on the NYULH internal