2023 • If system does not drop below specified pressure within 24 hours, the system is then ready to be evacuated. Evacuation Procedure • Pull a system vacuum down to at least 1000 microns (+/ 50 microns) and close the vacuum header valves. If the system cannot pull a vacuum at any step and returns to atmospheric pressure, which is an indication of a leak, test for and repair the leak using the previously described procedure with tracer gas. • If the 1000 micron vacuum holds for 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), break the vacuum with dry nitrogen to a pressure of 2 psig • Install system suction and liquid drier cores. • Pull a second vacuum to a minimum of 500 microns. • Close vacuum header valves. • If the 500 micron vacuum holds for a minimum of 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), then break the vacuum with the refrigerant to be used in the system to a pressure of 2 psig. • Pull a third vacuum to a minimum of 300 microns (+/ 50 microns). • Close vacuum header valves and allow system to stand for a minimum of 24 hours g. All pressure sensitive rooms shall have pressure relationship between room and outside space shown on report. h. Pressure sensitive rooms shall be tested prior to ceiling being installed to confirm design pressure relationships between pressurized room and adjacent spaces. i. Article 28 space balancing reports shall show pressure in and pressure out per FGI Guidelines. j. Balancing reports for any rooms designed to be positive or negative pressure must include the room’s pressure on the report. Report cannot be approved unless .01”wc/.01”wc is obtained while also meeting design flow CFM +/ . k. Testing and Balancing contractors shall be NEBB, TABB or AABC certified. Non certified TAB contractors are not allowed. II. All equipment shall be cleaned prior to starting/turnover. III. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup IV. Heat Recovery systems shall be enthalpy wheels, hydronic glycol based systems or air to air heat exchangers. These shall be designed on a case by case basis and will need to be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. V. Pressure dependent rooms shall always have a schedule shown on drawings indicating location, room name, room use and pressures required to meet code criteria. Testing and Balancing reports for these rooms shall always indicate design pressure and actual pressure of room. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 392 2023 VI. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. 1) Air Handling Units 2) Chillers 3) Boilers VII. Field Testing a. The following equipment shall be field witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. 1) Field Assembled Air Handling Units VIII. Flexible ductwork is not allowed in healthcare projects. IX. Slip and Drive connections for ductwork are only permitted when space in ceiling is limited. X. Provide futures when tapping off piping risers. XI. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. E. Pandemic Upgrades I. All upgrades shall be discussed with Facilities Management. The HVAC systems shall have the following upgrades: a. Minimum MERV 13 filters i. For clinical areas: Ability to add HEPA filtration when needed b. Ability to operate spaces at a humidity level of when needed c. Ability to operate with OA when needed with OA intake of unit minimum 50 feet from the exhaust of any system and street level i. Base design to be return air (or enthalpy recovery) F. Equipment 1. Access Doors Access doors shall be provided in any spaces where maintenance of any system (air or water) will need to be provided. A minimum size of 24x24 shall be provided, if smaller size is requested, obtain permission from Facilities Operations. Access shall be provided to all piping trim, dampers, actuators, shut off valves, BMS Sensors, equipment both sides of reheat preheat and cooling coils and any other equipment required maintenance access. The doors shall not be blocked by piping, electrical conduit, ceiling support iron or hangers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 393 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Finished Construction: 1) Karp 2) Mil Cor 3) Ruskin b. Sheetmetal (doors): 1) Duct Mate 2) Flexmaster 3) Ruskin c. Sheetmetal (hardware): 1) Arlan 2) Duro Dyne 3) Ventlok 2. Air Compressors Medical air compressors see plumbing design guidelines. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sullair b. Quincy c. Ingersoll Rand 3. Air Curtains Air curtains shall be provided with a door switch to operate only when doors are open. Approved Manufacturers: a. Berner International Corp. b. King c. Mars Air Door d. Powered Aire Inc. 4. Air Filters Approved Manufacturers: a. Viledon b. Flanders c. Fiber Bond 5. Air Handling/Conditioning Units If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Units shall be furnished with unit controls to comply with the requirements of the most current New York City Energy Conservation Code (NYCECC). Fan array technology shall be used on all Air Handling Units. Provide one VFD per fan array and one VFD as backup, total of two VFDs per fan array. Do not provide bypass NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 394 2023 on VFDs. The VFDs shall be programmed to operate all fans simultaneously and at the same ramp speeds. Each fan motor in the fan array shall have its own local disconnect. The VFDs shall swap at a determined time interval to equal out run time. All fans in a fan array system shall be provided with low pressure drop backdraft dampers that will prevent recirculating air when a fan is down due to maintenance or failure. Do not provide blank off plates in lieu of backdraft dampers. Non Ducted filter boxes shall have a minimum of 1 foot clearance. Ducted intake filter boxes shall have removable panels. This applies to V Cube type Mamoth condenser water type units. If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. Motor section shall have doors or removable panels that are larger than the motor for maintenance access. All floor plating inside each compartment shall be sheetmetal. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. If a unit is a double stack unit with access doors/panels on an upper level of the unit, the unit shall be provided with a permanent walkway/catwalk for maintenance access. Ladders without a walkway/catwalk are not allowed. Units are to be provided with access windows for each unit section. Lighting shall also be provided in each section. If unit is outdoors, lighting suitable for outdoor use (flood light type) shall be provided to illuminate all walkways/catwalks and access points. Pre assembled units shall be factory witness tested. Tests shall consist of: Unit Leakage, Coil Leakage, Deflection, Fan Vibration, and Acoustical. Field assembled units shall have the same test criteria as factory witness test but shall be field tested by manufacturer. Duct seal putty shall be used in all AHU conduit connections to VFDs, control enclosures, and other sensitive electronics. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. On units that require UV lighting, AHU UV light sections shall be provided with UV protected glass so that personnel can look into unit section without damaging eyes. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Stainless steel welded pans shall be installed under all AHU’s and floor mounted CRAC/CRAH units that are inside of a building above the lowest floor. Pans are not required if flooring is waterproofed and floor is pitched to floor drains. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 395 2023 Air blenders shall be used in all mixed air units. Air blenders shall be designed with low pressure drop. Discuss need of air blenders with facilities if design engineer is choosing to design a dual purpose heating/cooling coil as described in Cooling/Heating Coil section. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. For an AHU that serves Operating Rooms; the unit shall be designed to have a pre filter (intake of unit) of MERV 8. The final filter (discharge of unit) shall be MERV 15. HEPA filtration shall be installed in the modular OR ceiling. If a modular ceiling is not being designed inside the operating room, discuss with facilities where HEPA filtration shall be installed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Factory Assembled Custom Air Handling Units 1) Air Enterprise 2) Buffalo Air Handling 3) Temtrol 4) Ventrol 5) Carrier 6) Ingenia 7) Alliance Air Products 8) Trane 9)8) Haakon b. Packaged Roof Mounted Air Handling Units 1) Enviro Tec 2) Trane 3) York/Johnson Controls 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth c. Packaged Roof Mounted DX Air Handling Units 1) Trane 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Liebert 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth d. Packaged Self Contained Chilled Water Air Handling Units 1) Buffalo Air Handling 2) Trane 3) Ventrol 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 396 2023 e. Packaged Self Contained Computer Room Air Conditioning Units Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Data Aire 2)1) Liebert 3)2) APC (in row cooling only) 4)3) Stulz 5)4) United CoolairTrane f. Packaged Self Contained Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Data Aire 2)1) Enviro Tec 3)2) Liebert 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin g. Packaged Self Contained DX Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Data Aire 2)1) Liebert 3)2) Mammoth 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin h. Spot Coolers (Data Closets) 1) Movin Cool 6. Air Outlets Any outlets that are to be installed in labs, Operating Rooms or any specialized medical space shall be specific to the usage of the room. Standard outlets are not allowed in these areas. Plenum box connections to linear diffusers need to be clearly shown in details. Details shall clearly describe how connections shall be air sealed. Design engineer shall ensure detail is physically buildable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus e. Ruskin NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 397 2023 7. Air Volume Regulators Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus 8. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) Approved Manufacturers: a. Rittling b. Slantfin c. Sterling Radiator d. Vulcan Radiator 9. Boilers Approved Manufacturers: a. Condensing Modular 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Fulton 4) Cleaver Brooks b. Fire Packaged Watertune 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Burnham c. Firetube Boilers up to 150,000lbs/hr 1) Cleaver Brooks d. Heat Recovery Steam Generators / Waste Heat Boilers 1) Rentech 10. Clean Steam Generators Clean steam generators shall be steam to steam type. Screen control panels with PLC shall be provided. Shell shall be pitched to completely drain the condensate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Diversified Heat Transfer DHT. b. Patterson Kelley, Company. c. Acme Engineering Products, Inc. d. Precision Boilers, Inc. e. Armstrong f. Dri Steam g. Cem line NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 398 2023 11. Chilled Beams (active) Chilled beams shall have pressure independent control. Beams shall be provided with a pressure tap that can be used to measure the pressure differential between the primary air plenum and the room. The units shall be equipped with hinged perforated return grilles, an air bleed and drain valves. The connection of beams to the chilled water circuit shall be a maximum 18 inch long PTFE lined braided stainless steel hose having a rated operating pressure not less than 500 psig. It is standard for all chilled beams to be supported by the wire hanging kit method. Provide a minimum of 3 feet of straight or gradual radius between the primary air duct and the primary connection of the unit. Also avoid sharp bends on the primary air duct connection. Do not install the primary air volume damper directly to the primary air inlet connection. Flexible duct connections to the primary air inlet is not allowed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Dadanco b. Carrier c. Titus d. Semco e. York f. Price 11.12. Chillers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Chiller redundancy to be reviewed by Facilities Operations. All new chillers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Chillers located outdoors shall have capabilities of operating low ambient temperature conditions. Factory witness tests shall consist of all tests required under AHRI Standard 550. Chillers shall have a four point tests , , and design load. FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. Chiller FWT shall also include safeties and shutdown testing. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 399 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Centrifugal 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane 4) Carrier b. Absorption 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Carrier 3) Trane c. Modular Air Cooled 1) ArcticChill 2) Carrier 3) Multistack 4) York/Johnson Controls 5) Trane d. Modular Water Cooled 1) ArcticChill 2) Multistack 3) York/Johnson Controls e. Packaged Air Cooled 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane f. Magnetic Levitation 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Daikin 3) Trane 12.13. Condensate Pumps Steam condensate pumps shall have pump status monitored at BMS as well as high level alarm annunciated at BMS. This typically required additional relays to be designed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Cold Condensate 1) Federal 2) Hartell 3) Little Giant NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 400 2023 b. Hot Condensate (Low Pressure Steam Return) 1) Armstrong International 2) Bell & Gossett 3) Federal Pump 4) Weinman 13.14. Cooling/Heating Coils Coil pressure rating shall be designed to 400 psi at an ANSI pressure class of 300 lbs. for Manhattan campus primary chilled water system. All coils shall be Ccopper tube and /Ccopper fin/Stainless. Fins shall not be thinner than 0.0095” and tubes shall have with a minimum 0.035” wall thickness. Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. Fins shall be copper. If there is a shortage of copper, aluminum fins are allowable however this needs to be discussed with NYULH Facilities before proceeding with design. Construction of aluminum fin coils shall have copper tube with a minimum wall thickness of 0.035” and aluminum fin with a minimum 0.0095” thickness. A corrosion prevention coating (Electrofin or similar) shall be applied to any coil that is in a outdoor air unit and all aluminum fin coils. All coils shall be drainable (drain downs downstream of isolation valve ¾” hose bib) and have means of removal for service or replacement. Coils shall be pitched to a low point for draining purposes. If coils have different levels, all levels shall have separate drain pans. Coils shall have capability to be removed without removing any piping trim. All coils shall have clear access for removal. Multi coils shall be staggered for ability to be removed on the same side of unit. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Vents shall be provided at the top of the coil with drains at the bottom, vent and drain shall exist between the coil’s isolation valves. Cooling Coils must have a stainless steel condensate pan pitched in three directions toward drain. Drain pan nipples shall be stainless steel with dielectric fittings connecting to a drain plug. If return air is coming from the top, the coils shall be designed to have a top and bottom section. If return air is coming from the side, the coils shall be designed to have a left and right section. Separate Freezestats shall be provided on EACH section of coil within a unit. If a unit has multiple coils, each coil section shall be provided with its own control valve. Freeze type plug valves are not allowed. Coils to be provided with a full size manual bypass ball or gate valve. Traps for cooling and steam coils shall have proper heights for the removal of condensate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 401 2023 Coils not specifically listed in approved manufacturers below are acceptable only if the Air Handling manufacturer builds and tests the coils in their factory. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Hot water/Chilled water coils shall not be bottom fed. These coils shall be top or side fed. Design engineer to consider utilizing dual purpose CHW/HW coils to combine coils in AHUs. Engineer shall perform an analysis on applicability of such a coil and present to the corresponding campus facility team for review. Approved Manufacturers: a. Water/Steam 1) Aerofin 2) Heat Craft 3) Temtrol 4) RAE 14.15. Cooling Towers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. All towers shall have accessible fan motors for removal. Catwalks shall be provided for fan motors that are installed on the outside of the unit. Provide means of removal of fan motor. Railings shall always be provided on top of the unit. Ladders shall be provided for access to the top of the unit. Freeze protection (steam or electric) shall be provided on towers that will not be drained down during the winter season freeze protection pump shall be provided on a case by case basis as secondary protection. Major cooling towers shall be induced draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. If towers have multiple cells, each cell shall have means of walking between each cell. Catwalks shall be installed inside all cells for maintenance. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. Minor cooling towers shall be force draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. ¾” hose bib shall be installed for cleaning purposes. All cooling towers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 402 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Marley b. Baltimore Aircoil Company c. Evapco 15.16. Controllers (Water Level) Controllers shall be floats or digital type. Design shall be discussed with Facilities Operations. Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. McDonnell Miller b. B&W c. Magnatrol International, Inc. 16.17. Dampers (ALD's) Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Damper adjustment hardware and actuators shall extend past ductwork insulation. Provide Access Doors for damper blades and actuator (if access is an issue). If actuator has to be installed inside ductwork due to size requirements, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Double actuators are not allowed. Actuators shall be sized to provide proper torque via one actuator. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco 17.18. Dampers (Dynamic Fire/Smoke) All fire smoke dampers to be full throat and shall not obstruct the air stream or reduce the area of the duct in any manner. Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Fire Smoke Dampers shall be provided with limit switches. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 403 2023 All access doors for FSDs shall include a label on the door indicating what the access is for. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco e. Pottorff e.f. Honeywell 18.19. Expansion Compensation Expansion compensators shall be designed and shown on drawings with proper guiding and anchors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Type Expansion Joints 1) Advanced Thermal Systems 2) Hyspan Barco b. Braided Type Expansion Loops 1) Metraflex c. Corrugated Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Keflex 3) Metraflex d. Slip Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Metraflex 19.20. Expansion Tanks Expansion tanks shall have waterside and airside gauges on bladder type tanks. Drain points shall be provided on waterside section. All expansion tanks shall have replaceable bladders. Approved Manufacturers: a. Adamson b. Amtrol c. Bell & Gossett d. John Woods e. RECO f. TACO NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 404 2023 20.21. Fans If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Spring type vibration isolators shall always be provided. Neoprene type isolators can be provided for fans less than 100lbs. If neoprene is used, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Motors which are located on the outside of the fan housing shall have an internal access point to provide access to internal sheave. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Patient isolation rooms shall have a dedicated exhaust system, which shall not be picked up by the air handling unit. Fumehood chemical exhaust shall be stainless steel welded ductwork. All fume hood risers shall be pitched back to the chemical fume hood. Fume hoods shall be tested to ANSI/ASHRAE 110 standards. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Fan inlet boxes shall follow SMACNA HVAC Systems Design Handbook and shall not be field fabricated without verification the SMACNA standards were followed. Belt driven fan shall not be provided with variable pulleys if equipped with a VFD. Only fixed pully shall be allowed on such systems. Approved Manufacturers: a. Howden Buffalo b. Strobic Air c. Greenheck d. Cook e. PennBarry f. Twin City g. Aerovent 21.22. Fan Powered Boxes Fan Powered Boxes shall have pressure independent control. Units shall be designed with a local disconnect switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus 22.23. Fan Coil Units Provide with 2 way controls and condensate pump (or gravity drain). Separate stainless steel drain pan shall be installed underneath unit. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 405 2023 Pumps, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. York/Johnson Controls b. Liebert c. Data Aire d. International 23.24. Firestopping Products Firestopping products shall not be used unless required for fire or smoke barriers. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hilti 24.25. Flow Measuring Devices Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new feed shall be similarly metered. Hot wire type air flow measurement devices are not acceptable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Air Systems 1) Air Monitor Corporation 2) Tek Air Systems, Inc. 3) Paragon Controls 4) Ebtron b. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 406 2023 c. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Electromagnetic Flow Meter) 1) Krohne 2) Yokogawa 3) Emerson 4) Siemens d. Steam Systems (Insertion Turbine or Vortex or Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim 2) Spirax Sarco ILVA 3) Rosemount 4) Vortek Instruments 25.26. Fuel Oil Pumping Systems Pumping system shall be installed in a space that will provide access for periodic maintenance including removal of motors, impellers, and accessories. In flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations) provide water tight enclosure that will allow the pumps to operate during a flood. Controls and all power conduits to be within water tight installations until outside of flood zone. Fuel oil containment piping which is horizontal shall be pitched back to leak containment drum. Vertical fuel oil risers shall also drain into leak containment drum. Horizontal containment shall be a pipe in pipe no other means of containment is allowed. Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. IMO c. Deval d. Viking 26.27. Fuel Oil Specialties Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Preferred Utilities Mfg. Corp. 27.28. Fuel Oil Tanks Fuel oil tank shall be bolted to the structure to prevent floating in case of a flood. All preventable flood requirements shall be analyzed if fuel oil tank is to be installed in a flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations). Approved Manufacturers: a. Fiberglass 1) Xerxes Corp. 2) Cardinal Fiberglass Industries 3) Containment Solutions NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 407 2023 b. Steel 1) ISP 2) Highland Tank & Mfg. Co. 3) Adamson Global Technology Corporation 4) Cardinal Tank Corporation 28.29. Fuel Oil Tank Gauging and Leak Detection Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Veeder Root 29.30. Freezestats See controls subsection for Low Temperature Switches. 30.31. Hangers, Anchors and Guides All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. 31.32. Heat Exchangers For shell and tube heat exchangers, relief valves shall be located on the hot and cold side of heat exchanger and sized to the working pressure of the system. Plate and Frame heat exchangers shall be located on a housekeeping pad. No equipment shall be installed on the plate side of a heat exchanger proper access for removal of plates shall always be maintained. Heat exchangers shall be provided with strapped or clipped removable shrouds. Heat exchangers shall be AHRI certified Approved Manufacturers: a. Plate and Frame 1) Alfha Laval 2) Plate Concepts 3) Bell and Gossett b. Shell and Tube 1) Bell & Gossett 32.33. Heat Trace Refer to electrical guidelines for details. 33.34. Humidifiers Humidifiers shall be supplied with Humidistat and also an airflow switch for preventing humidifier operation without airflow. Humidstat shall be designed to be controlled via a cascaded loop. Humidifiers shall be resistive type not electrode type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 408 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Armstrong 2) Dri Steam 3) Nortec b. Water Spray (cannot be used in Article 28 spaces) 1) Armstrong 2) Herrmidifier 3) Cold Fog 34.35. Insulation (Duct and Pipe) All supply ductwork shall be insulated on the outside. No acoustic insulation is allowed inside the ductwork unless encapsulated with a mylar, tedlar, or approved equivalent type membrane. Insulation shall not cover any damper adjustment hardware. All acoustical lining on the inside of any ducts to be reviewed with Facilities Operations. Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Ductwork located outside shall have proper weatherproofing for use outdoors. Outdoor ductwork must have internal rigid supports to create a pitched top and prevent water accumulation on top of the duct. Steam station and steam piping shall have insulation designed such that no point of insulation is greater than 10 degrees above ambient temperature. The following ductwork shall be insulated: • Supply Air. • Outdoor air. • Return located in unconditioned space. • Type I, commercial, kitchen hood exhaust. • Oven and warewash exhaust. • Exhaust between isolation damper and penetration of building exterior. • Supply and return located outdoors. Generator exhausts located indoors shall be insulated with Calcium Silicate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armacell b. Armstrong c. Knauf d. Johns Manville e. Owens Corning Fiberglas (O C F) f. P.P.G. (Pittsburgh Plate Glass) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 409 2023 35.36. Insulation Adhesives The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Benjamin Foster Company b. Elgen c. Venture Tape Corp 36.37. Insulation Pipe Shields Approved Manufacturers: a. Buckaroos, Inc. b. Pipe Shields Inc. c. Taylor Pipe Supports 37.38. Meters and Gauges Controls, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. No gauge cocks allowed. Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Temperature Scale Ranges: • Chilled Water Piping: 0 to 100 deg F • Condenser Water Piping: 0 to 150 deg F • Heating, Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F • Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F • Steam Piping: 212 to 500 deg F Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 410 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Sisco 3) Watts Regulator b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler 38.39. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a fan array system and over hertzing is being implemented, L10 life shall be greater than 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a VFD system, the motor shall be inverter duty rated. Motors enclosures shall be TEFC. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 411 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg