Data System (PI RADS) v2.183 It should be noted that MRI as a single modality is not able to detect all Gleason 7 or higher tumors, potentially exposing a small subset of men to delayed treatment of clinically significant cancer. The Panel does not recommend the use of mpMRI in place of prostate biopsy at this time. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 27 32. Tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in active surveillance for localized prostate cancer and are not necessary for follow up. (Expert Opinion) The lethal potential of prostate cancer is difficult to predict with precision based on stage, grade, and PSA level. The presence of only Gleason pattern 3 predicts for a favorable clinical outcome. However, the limitation of systematic biopsies is the pathologic miss of higher grade cancer in 25 of patients.184,185 Earlier identification of patients with co existent higher grade cancer is a major unmet need in the field. The challenge for tissue based genetic tests is to provide more accurate risk stratification than currently available optimally used clinical tools and predictive modeling in a way that is reasonably cost effective. The role of tissue based genomic biomarkers for patients on active surveillance during follow up remains uncertain. RNA expression profiles of selected gene panels can be performed on small samples of cancer in biopsy specimens to predict prognosis more accurately. Genomic analyses of prostate cancer reveal distinct patterns of alterations in the genotype that may predict prognosis more accurately. While such assays have sufficient analytic and clinical validity, their clinical utility in active surveillance remains to be established. In particular, these assays were validated in the pre MRI era. Their incremental value in the context of men who have had a mpMRI is unclear. An additional concern regarding the use of biopsy based molecular biomarkers is the sampling error inherent in prostate biopsy given known tumor heterogeneity. The proportion of men whose clinical risk category is substantially altered by molecular tests, particularly in men with low risk disease, is relatively minor. However, in the future these assays may have the greatest incremental value at the time of diagnosis in reassuring selected men who have ‘low risk’ (versus very low risk) disease (for example, men with extensive Gleason 6 cancer and/or high PSA density, or a strong family history of early death from prostate cancer); and in those in whom clinical findings are discordant with the pathological findings on follow up (for example, men with a PI RADS 4 5 lesion on MRI whose targeted American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer TABLE 5: Active Surveillance Reference n Median follow up (months) % treated over all; % treatment free Overall/disease specific survival (%) % BCR post deferred treatment Klotz (2015) Canada66 993 92 30; 72 at 5 years 79/ 97 at 10 years 25 (6 overall) Tosoian (2015) United States7 1298 60 50 at 10 years 57 at 15 years 69/99.9 at 15 years NR Bul (2013) Multicenter, Europe167 2500 2494 20 21 77/100 at 10 years 20 Dall’Era (2008) United States168 328 321 43 24; 67 at 5 years 100 (disease specific) NR Kakehi (2008) Multicentre, Japan169 118 36 51; 49 at 3 years NR NR Roemeling (2007) Netherlands170 273 41 29; 71 at 5 years 89/100 at 5 years NR Barayan (2014) Cana da171 155 155 65 20 100/100 NR Rubio Briones (2014) Spain172 232 36 27 93 at 5 years/99.5 NR Godtman (2014)173 439 63 81/99.8 14 Thomsen (2013) Den mark174 167 40 35; 60 at 5 years NR NR Selvadurai (2014) Unit ed Kingdom175 471 67 30 98/99.7 12 28 biopsy is negative or shows only Gleason 6 cancer). 33. Clinicians should offer definitive treatment to localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance who develop adverse reclassification. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) For patients who elect active surveillance as a management approach (versus watchful waiting) there is an assumption that active treatment should be initiated upon the detection of adverse features that may change the patient’s risk category. This may be due either to an incorrect original classification or to true progression from a lower risk to a higher risk category.67,186 Thus, if there is adverse reclassification due to the detection of a higher Gleason score than was present at the initiation of surveillance, definitive treatment should be considered. Other factors that may lead to adverse reclassification include growth of lesion on mpMRI and suspicious rises in PSA that may change PSA density.187 In the PIVOT and ProtecT studies, and , respectively, of patients who started on active surveillance received treatment within 10 years.50,51 PROSTATECTOMY 34. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that younger or healthier men (e.g., <65 years of age or >10 year life expectancy) are more likely to experience cancer control benefits from prostatectomy than older men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Compared to other cancers, prostate cancer is typically a slowly evolving disease. Numerous studies exploring its natural history have suggested that, even if high grade and left untreated, disease specific survival is a median of 8 10 years after diagnosis.139,188 193 It is, therefore, unlikely that men with short life expectancy will benefit from treatment. It is also unlikely that clinical trials following patients for a shorter interval than 8 10 years will be able to demonstrate a survival advantage attributable to the intervention being studied. In comparison to watchful waiting, the survival benefit from radical prostatectomy was observed predominantly in the <65 year old age group.96 While the older group did not experience a statistically significant decrease in mortality, these older men nonetheless demonstrated a trend towards longer life and a significant decrease in metastases. Two other studies with short follow up failed to demonstrate that age was significantly associated with survival after radical prostatectomy.50,51 However, even at 10 years follow up, one of them did find an increased risk of metastases among younger men, a finding highly suggestive of future risk of prostate cancer mortality. 35. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that open and robot assisted radical prostatectomy offer similar cancer control, continence recovery, and sexual recovery outcomes. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Data from a prospective RCT in Australia found no difference in margin status between open and robotic approaches. Ten percent of patient in the open and of patients in the robotic group had a positive surgical margin (p=0.21). Follow up was very limited in these patients, so long term outcomes are not known.194 The Health Professionals Follow up study also found no difference in oncologic outcomes between the two surgical approaches, including no difference in positive surgical margin rates, and no difference in recurrence free survival at three and five years of follow up, odds ratios 0.98 [CI, 0.46 2.08] and 0.75[CI, 0.18 3.11], respectively.195 A matched comparison study of open and robotic radical prostatectomy found no significant difference in biochemical progression free survival at three years. While these data are limited, all indicate that the surgical approach does not impact cancer control in the immediate term. Urinary incontinence is one of the most distressing side effects of radical prostatectomy, even when limited in duration and severity. Multiple studies have found no statistical difference in the rates of continence after open, robotic, or perineal radical prostatectomy.194 197 All surgical approaches confer a risk of erectile dysfunction after radical prostatectomy, and this must be discussed with patients preoperatively. There is no statistically significant difference in retrospective, prospective non randomized, and prospective randomized trials in the rate and recovery of erectile function if an open, laparoscopic, or robotic assisted laparoscopic approach is used. 36. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that robotic/laparoscopic or perineal techniques are associated with less blood loss than retropupic prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Radical prostatectomy has a risk of bleeding requiring transfusion whether it is performed open or via a American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 29 minimally invasive approach, such as pure laparoscopic or robotic assisted laparoscopic surgery. Patients must be informed prior to surgery of this risk, and patient preferences regarding transfusion must be considered accordingly. Two randomized trials found a lower rate of transfusion with minimally invasive approaches compared to open surgery.194,197 In a prospective randomized trial of open radical retropubic prostatectomy versus robotic assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy from Australia, there was a mean estimated blood loss of 1,338ml for open surgery compared to 443ml for robotic surgery, p<0.001. There were no intraoperative transfusions due to use of cell saver, but six patients in the open group had postoperative transfusions compared to one in the robotic group. This difference was not statistically significant p=0.12.194,197 A prospective non randomized trial in Sweden also found statistically less perioperative bleeding with a robotic approach, 185ml, versus an open approach, 683cc p<0.001. The Health Professionals follow up study similarly found a lower estimated blood loss (207ml versus 852ml) and a lower transfusion rate (4. versus ) associated with robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy compared to open radical retropubic prostatectomy (P<0.0001). 37. Clinicians should counsel localized prostate cancer patients that nerve sparing is associated with better erectile function recovery than non nerve sparing. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Early experience with radical prostatectomy was marked by large intraoperative blood loss and near certain postoperative erectile dysfunction. Advances in anatomic understanding of pelvic anatomy and advances in surgical technique allowed for the preservation of the neurovascular bundles containing the cavernous nerves responsible for penile tumescence. Preservation of the neurovascular bundles during radical prostatectomy allowed for the possibility of erections in 50 of men, a strong proof of principle. Prospective registries have demonstrated that nerve sparing prostatectomy improved post operative sexual function as well as overall QoL.32,198 This benefit appears to exist irrespective of surgical approach, as no difference has been observed in erectile dysfunction between robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy as compared to open radical prostatectomy, where nerve sparing techniques are possible; however, erectile dysfunction was less in retropubic radical prostatectomy as compared to perineal prostatectomy, where nerve sparing is typically not possible. 38. Clinicians should not treat localized prostate cancer patients who have elected to undergo radical prostatectomy with neoadjuvant ADT or other systemic therapy outside of clinical trials. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Four randomized prospective studies compared three months of neoadjuvant ADT followed by radical retropubic prostatectomy to radical prostatectomy alone.199 202 In all four studies, at up to seven years of follow up, there was no significant difference in biochemical (PSA) recurrence between the groups. Therefore, there is no long term oncologic benefit to adding neoadjuvant ADT to radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer. A randomized, prospective study of neoadjuvant docetaxel combined with ADT followed by radical prostatectomy compared to radical prostatectomy alone for high risk prostate cancer is ongoing, so this combination is still considered investigational.203 39. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering prostatectomy, that older men experience higher rates of permanent erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence after prostatectomy compared to younger men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Patient age has been recognized to be a key determinant of post prostatectomy sexual recovery since the earliest studies of nerve sparing prostatectomy by Walsh, and the pivotal role of patient age as an indicator of erectile function recovery has been validated in two multicenter prospective cohorts (CaPSURE and PROSTQA).32,204 207 Predictive models indicate approximately 15 reduction in probability for recovery of erections firm enough for intercourse for each decade of life from age 50 to 70.204,208 210 It commonly takes one to two years to achieve maximal recovery of erectile function. Patients considering prostatectomy should be counseled accordingly. Older age has also been shown to reduce the pace and extent of post prostatectomy urinary continence recovery.32,205,211 For example, studies evaluating patient reported pad use, as a measure of urinary incontinence, showed that the relative risk of incontinence increases 2 fold for men 70 years of age compared to men at 60 years of age ( versus incontinence at 1 year, when defined as use of more than one pad daily).212,213 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 30 40. Pelvic lymphadenectomy can be considered for any localized prostate cancer patients undergoing radical prostatectomy and is recommended for those with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk disease. Patients should be counseled regarding the common complications of lymphadenectomy, including lymphocele development and its treatment. (Expert Opinion) Pelvic lymphadenectomy (PLND) is the most effective means of detecting nodal metastases. Variability in the reported rates of nodal metastases reflects both primary tumor characteristics and the extent of PLND. Several reports have clearly shown that extended PLND is associated with a higher lymph node detection rate as compared with limited PLND, regardless of prostate cancer aggressiveness.214 The primary lymph nodes draining the prostate are extensive, as high as the aorta and inferior vena cava in the retroperitoneum.215 About of the primary lymph nodes are contained within a standard dissection limited to the obturator fossa; about two thirds of the primary nodes are contained within an extended template that includes the obturator fossa and the tissue medial and lateral to the internal iliac vessels.216 Evidence is lacking as to whether or not the removal of lymph nodes containing metastatic prostate cancer has therapeutic benefit. Several studies suggest an extended PLND improves biochemical relapse free survival,217 219 but this finding has not been consistently observed, particularly with more limited dissections.220 223 Even if improved biochemical free survival translates to improved prostate cancer specific survival, removal of all primary nodes is not feasible.216 There is no curative benefit from having negative lymph nodes removed, although one study demonstrated a modest (0.) improved prostate cancer specific and overall survival compared to patients who did not undergo a lymph node dissection at the time of radical prostatectomy. Nomograms have been developed to predict the likelihood of having histologically positive nodes.214,225 Lymphocele is the most common complication of PLND occurring in up to of cases.226 Most lymphoceles are asymptomatic and require no treatment.227 Symptomatic lymphoceles occur in 0. to of patients,226 and can be managed by placing a percutaneous drain and instilling sclerosing agents with resolution between 70 100 % depending on the study and type of sclerosing agent being used. In lymphoceles refractory to percutaneous drainage and sclerosis, minimally invasive marsupialization of the lymphocele is recommended.226 41. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk prostate cancer about benefits and risks related to the potential option of adjuvant radiotherapy when locally extensive prostate cancer is found at prostatectomy. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) SWOG 8794 randomized subjects to adjuvant radiotherapy or no adjuvant after prostatectomy and showed that adjuvant radiotherapy was associated with temporary or early gastrointestinal (Grade 1 2 in in adjuvant group versus in controls) and urinary ( in adjuvant versus in controls) toxicity at 6 weeks after treatment. These side effects subsided to no difference between the treatment arms at five years.228 Although a single non randomized prospective study has implicated late Grade 2 urinary toxicity in of subjects receiving adjuvant radiotherapy,229 a single institution RCT showed no difference in urinary continence at one year.230 These RCT’s are flawed in that they relied on clinician report, which is prone to underestimate morbidity, and did not measure treatment specific morbidity by contemporary patient report methodology. RADIOTHERAPY 42. Clinicians may offer single modality external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy for patients who elect radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) While active surveillance is the preferred management strategy, radiotherapy can be considered as an alternative for low risk prostate cancer in patients who select treatment at diagnosis or during follow up.50,231 Various radiotherapy options exist with unique treatment and technical issues related to each modality.232,233 Options for treatment include intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), low dose rate brachytherapy, and high dose rate brachytherapy.234 237 IMRT is a form of external beam photon therapy that uses multiple radiation beam and/or arcs to provide a highly conformal treatment of the prostate with normal tissue sparing of adjacent organs, such as the rectum and bladder. SBRT generally utilizes photon based IMRT treatment to deliver hypofractionated radiation American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 31 treatment usually in five or fewer fractions of treatment. Low dose rate brachytherapy utilizes radioactive seeds that are implanted based of pretreatment and intraoperative image guidance according to a computer plan. High dose rate brachytherapy uses temporary catheters implanted in the prostate to allow for the delivery of a high activity radiation source. All allow for the delivery of highly conformal radiotherapy. There is no evidence that combinations of therapies are required for the treatment of low risk prostate cancer given the low risk of extra capsular disease extension and the favorable biochemical control rates associated with the use of monotherapy. 43. Clinicians may offer external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy alone or in combination for favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) Radiotherapy can be considered as an appropriate option for intermediate risk prostate cancer.50,231 Various radiotherapy options exist with unique treatment and technical issues related to each modality.232,233 Options for treatment include IMRT, SBRT, low dose rate brachytherapy, and high dose rate brachytherapy.234 237Additionally, combination therapy of external beam combined with brachytherapy can be also be delivered using various combinations (IMRT combined with either low dose or high dose rate brachytherapy). The rationale of combination therapy can be either for the improved coverage of the periprostatic space and/or planned coverage of the pelvic lymph nodes in patients with unfavorable intermediate risk disease.238 High level prospective clinical trials to define the most appropriate radiation treatment to optimize clinical outcomes for intermediate risk prostate cancer continues to emerge in the literature. Results of the RTOG 0232 trial assessing low dose brachytherapy with and without EBRT have been reported and published in abstract form while complete findings are awaited. 44. Clinicians should offer 24 36 months of ADT as an adjunct to either external beam radiotherapy alone or external beam radiotherapy combined with brachytherapy to patients electing radiotherapy for high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Two randomized trials have compared EBRT with short term versus long term ADT. EORTC 22961 randomized 1,113 men with high risk prostate cancer to EBRT plus 6 versus 36 months of ADT.135 Five year overall mortality was for short term ADT and for long term ADT. RTOG 9202 randomized patients to EBRT plus 4 versus 28 months of ADT.239 In the subgroup of patients with Gleason 8 10 disease, 5 year overall survival was for short term ADT and for long term ADT. Based on these trials, acceptable ADT durations for radiotherapy patients with high risk prostate cancer range from 24 36 months. A randomized trial that compared radiotherapy plus 18 versus 36 months ADT in high risk patients has not been published with mature data; at this time it is unknown if 18 months of ADT is an acceptable duration. Radiation treatment options for high risk prostate cancer include IMRT, and IMRT plus brachytherapy (low or high dose rate). There are little data of long term efficacy of SBRT in high risk prostate cancer, and this modality is not recommended. In high risk patients without evidence of nodal metastasis based on imaging, radiation treatment may electively include pelvic nodal areas because published nomograms demonstrate that these patients have a risk of harboring micrometastatic nodal disease. Whether pelvic radiotherapy improves survival is the subject of a current randomized trial. Prior randomized trials comparing prostate only versus prostate and pelvic radiation treatment have not demonstrated improved survival from electively adding pelvic radiation.240 242 45. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that use of ADT with radiation increases the likelihood and severity of adverse treatment related events on sexual function in most men and can cause other systemic side effects. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) ADT can cause sexual side effects, hot flashes, decreased bone mineral density, gynecomastia, depression, fatigue, and weight gain. A variety of strategies have been studied to help mitigate these effects.243 Patient reported sexual dysfunction of radiotherapy plus short term ADT versus radical prostatectomy was compared in a randomized trial, with the latter associated with more sexual dysfunction through six years of follow up.52 Patients who receive long term ADT versus short term ADT experience these symptoms for a longer period of time. However, in the EORTC 22961 trial, long term overall QoL was similar in the two arms, likely suggesting patient adaptation to the ADT associated symptoms over time.135 There is a risk of non recovery of testosterone in a American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 32 subset of patients after ADT. In a published study of patients who received 2 years of ADT, recovered to supracastrate testosterone levels while recovered to baseline or normal testosterone levels.244 Younger patients are more likely to have testosterone recovery. 46. Clinicians should consider moderate hypofractionation when the localized prostate cancer patient (of any risk category) and clinician decide on external beam radiotherapy to the prostate (without nodal radiotherapy). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Traditionally, radical EBRT is usually delivered with standard daily fractionation schedules with about 1.8 2.0Gy per day.245 The rationale for this approach is that most tumors are thought to have rapid proliferation and are best treated with standard fractionation schedules to best take advantage of the high alpha beta ratio associated with such situations.245 Alpha beta values describe the curvature of a cell survival curve after exposure to various doses of radiotherapy. The alpha beta ratio is the dose where cell killing due to the linear and quadratic components are equal. There is mounting evidence that certain tumors (e.g., prostate, sarcoma, and melanoma) may be associated with lower proliferation and hence with an associated lower alpha beta ratio. Recently, a series of RCTs have been published to inform the potential of moderate hypofractionation given with modern radiation technology as well as what is considered by many to be adequate doses to optimize biochemical control in both the standard (1.8 2.0Gy/day) and experimental (hypofractionation) arms for these studies. The CHHiP trial randomized 3,216 men to one of three treatment arms (74Gy standard fractionation, 60Gy hypofractionation at 3 Gy/fraction, and 57Gy hypofractionation at 3 Gy/fraction).246 248 Sixty Gy in 20 fractions was found to be non inferior to 74Gy in 37 fractions (HR 0.84 ( CI 0.68 1.03) in terms of biochemical and/or clinical failure. No differences in side effects were noted between the study groups. The short term non inferiority of modern moderate hypofractionated external beam radiotherapy have been replicated in two other non published RCTs; however, the main limitation of these studies is the lack of long term follow up in terms of clinically important cancer control and toxicity outcomes. Patients at risk for late effects of radiotherapy (including but not limited to pre existing lower urinary tract symptoms [LUTS], transurethral resection of the prostate [TURP], and anticoagulant usage) may be better served with conventional fractionation (1.8 2.0 Gy/day). 47. For localized prostate cancer patients with obstructive, non cancer related lower urinary function, surgical approaches may be preferred. If radiotherapy is used for these patients or those with previous significant transurethral resection of the prostate, low dose rate brachytherapy should be discouraged. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Because EBRT and brachytherapy, especially the latter, can cause acute urinary obstructive and irritative symptoms,32 patients with significant baseline urinary obstructive symptoms may prefer radical prostatectomy. Another relative contraindication for brachytherapy is large prostate size >60 cc because of increased risk of urinary side effects.249 A prior TURP is an absolute contraindication for brachytherapy if the defect precludes adequate placement of seeds.21 Relative contraindications to EBRT and brachytherapy include inflammatory bowel disease and history of prior pelvic radiotherapy due to increased risk for treatment related morbidity.250 Ataxia telangiectasia is an absolute contraindication to both EBRTand brachytherapy because these patients have a severe response to ionizing radiation.250 48. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering proton beam therapy that it offers no clinical advantage over other forms of definitive treatment. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) The predominant forms of EBRT are delivered by photon therapy (either generated by a machine such as a linear accelerator or by a radioactive source such as a cobalt 60 unit) or electrons (usually used for superficial tumors/targets).251 Proton therapy utilizes proton charged particles with superior dosimetric advantages over photons and electrons as they stop depositing dose at an energy dependent distance from the treatment source; therefore, sparing of tissue beyond this distance can be accomplished.251 In situations where targets are in close proximity to normal tissue organs, the proton approach may lead to dosimetric advantages to other radiation techniques. In the specific context of prostate cancer, very limited information exists in relation to the comparative effectiveness of proton therapy compared to other American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 33 radiation techniques or other modalities of treatment.251 In a 2012 SEER Medicare retrospective population based analysis, photon based IMRT was compared to proton therapy in terms of various clinical endpoints.252 No difference was found in terms of most treatment related morbidities except for a lower rate of gastrointestinal toxicity associated with IMRT when compared to proton therapy.252 The lack of evidence demonstrating clinical advantages of proton therapy over other forms of radiation and non radiation treatment has led to the ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely statement endorsed by ASTRO: “Don’t routinely recommend proton beam therapy for prostate cancer outside a prospective clinical trial or registry.”253 It is advised that prospective clinical trials are necessary to establish the potential advantage(s) of this treatment over other therapies prior to wider adoption of this form of treatment.253 A National Cancer Institute randomized phase III trial is underway comparing proton versus photon beam radiotherapy for low and low intermediate risk prostate cancer with a health related QoL primary endpoint. 49. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering brachytherapy that it has similar effects as external beam radiotherapy with regard to erectile dysfunction and proctitis but can also exacerbate urinary obstructive symptoms. (Expert Opinion) Prospective QoL research showed that both EBRT and brachytherapy led to modest rates of bloody stools, rectal pain, and overall bowel problems.32 In addition, EBRT and brachytherapy resulted in similar rates of erectile dysfunction symptoms and overall sexuality problems.32 WHOLE GLAND CRYOSURGERY 50. Clinicians may consider whole gland cryosurgery in low and intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients who are not suitable for either radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy due to comorbidities yet have >10 year life expectancy. (Expert Opinion) Cryosurgery can be an appropriate treatment option for men with intermediate risk prostate cancer who are not suitable candidates for prostatectomy (i.e. due to comorbidities, such as morbid obesity or a prior history of pelvic surgery),115 or who have relative contra indications to radiotherapy (i.e. due to including previous pelvic radiation, inflammatory bowel disease, or rectal disorders).115 The paucity of RCT’s evaluating cryosurgery limits knowledge regarding its comparative efficacy: only two RCT’s of cryosurgery have been reported; both included neoadjuvant ADT (whose benefit with cryosurgery has not been formally shown) in a comparison to EBRT; the multicenter RCT was aborted before half of the target accrual goal had been reached, whereas the only study that completed target accrual was a single center study. Neither RCT was powered to evaluate comparative cancer specific or overall mortality. The one completed (albeit single center) randomized trial of EBRT (with adjuvant ADT) versus cryosurgery (also with adjuvant ADT) for clinically localized disease demonstrated comparable biochemical recurrence free survival at three, five, and seven years’ follow up.76 Actuarial five year overall survival and disease specific survival were also similar. Notably, cryosurgery showed lower rate of persistent primary cancer on study mandated prostate biopsy at 36 months ( after cryotherapy vs for EBRT). However, sample size and duration of follow up was insufficient to determine whether or not cryosurgery has long term cancer specific or overall survival efficacy comparable to EBRT. The trial population was comprised principally of patients who would be categorized as intermediate risk based on Gleason score and PSA criteria ( Gleason score =6, Gleason score =7, median PSA= 9; DRE not reported), constituting the basis for the Panel’s recommendation of this modality for low and intermediate risk disease. The second randomized trial comparing cryosurgery versus EBRT was predominantly comprised of men with locally advanced disease, but also included patients with high risk localized (T2c) prostate cancer, and demonstrated long term biochemical recurrence free survival for cryosurgery to be remarkably inferior to that following EBRT ( versus , respectively, at 8 years median follow up).141Based on the inferior efficacy of cryosurgery compared to EBRT in this limited trial, it is the Panel’s judgment that high risk patients are less suited for this treatment. Moreover, high risk patients may require multimodal/salvage therapy, and clinicians should consider lymph node dissection prior to or in conjunction with cryosurgery.115 117 Prostate gland volume is a factor in patient selection in that it can be difficult to achieve uniform cold temperatures throughout the organ.77,115,117 Most investigators have not recommended treating glands that exceed 60 g with cyrosurgery. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 34 51. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that cryosurgery has similar progression free survival as did non dose escalated external beam radiation (also given with neoadjuvant hormonal therapy) in low and intermediate risk disease, but conclusive comparison of cancer mortality is lacking. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) One randomized clinical trial of non dose escalated EBRT versus cryosurgery has been reported for localized prostate cancer with primarily intermediate and high risk disease patients (114 and 117 in each arm respectively). Fifty eight patients in the EBRT arm received <70 Gy. The primary endpoint of short term (36 months) biochemical recurrence free survival (PSA nadir + 2 ng/ml) was comparable for cryosurgery and EBRT ( and respectively).76 Cryosurgery and radiotherapy patients alike received 6 months of neoadjuvant ADT, and secondary endpoints of actuarial 5 year overall survival (88. versus 89.) and disease specific survival ( in both groups) were also similar. Cryosurgery showed lower rate of persistent primary cancer on study mandated prostate biopsy at 36 months ( after cryotherapy versus after EBRT). However, the study was not powered to compare cancer survival or overall survival, and long term data beyond 10 years are also lacking. Of note, even though neoadjuvant ADT was consistently given with cryosurgery in the two trials that compared cryosurgery to radiotherapy, neoadjuvant ADT in cryosurgery has not been demonstrated to improve oncologic outcomes compared to cryotherapy alone. Conversely, multicenter trials comparing cryosurgery without neoadjuvant ADT to other prostate cancer treatment modalities are lacking. At three years, the cryosurgery patients reported slightly lower sexual function, slightly better urinary function, and comparable bowel function outcomes in comparison to the EBRT patients.254 52. Defects from prior transurethral resection of the prostate are a relative contraindication for whole gland cryosurgery due to the increased risk of urethral sloughing. (Clinical Principle) The urethral warming catheter may fail to fully contact the urethral mucosa in patients with a TURP defect increasing the likelihood for urethral necrosis, sloughing, dysuria, and urinary retention.115 Cryosurgery is contraindicated in patients who cannot have transrectal ultrasound guidance and monitoring of probe placement and the ablation cycle, such as surgical absence of the rectum from a previous abdominal perineal resection. 53. For whole gland cryosurgery treatment, clinicians should utilize a third or higher generation, argon based cryosurgical system for whole gland cryosurgery treatment. (Clinical Principle) Optimal oncologic and QoL outcomes of whole gland cryosurgery are achieved with a third generation, argon based cryosurgical system. In addition to a urethral warming catheter, real time ultrasound monitoring of the advancing ice ball is recommended.115 A double freeze thaw cycle is standard protocol as numerous studies have demonstrated greater likelihood of complete cell kill and treatment zone devascularization. 115,255 The advancing