treatment selection is a shared decision-making process among the psychiatrist, the patient, and their caregivers. Generally speaking, the first step is establishing the diagnosis, then determining whether pharmacological or nonpharmacological treatment will be used, and if both, how they will be sequenced. We consider the age of the patient, the severity of the disorder, and any comorbidities. “Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process. Patient preference should be the primary consideration.” Most adults are treated with psychostimulants, which include methylphenidate and amphetamines. Newer developments in drug therapy are focused on modifying the mechanism of drug delivery, specifically by extending their half-lives to minimize side effects. Other approved pharmacological options include atomoxetine and viloxazine, both selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Common side effects of psychostimulants include increased heart rate and blood pressure, agitation, insomnia, and in rare cases, unusual thoughts. When deciding on a treatment strategy, these factors need to be taken into account, and patient preference should be the primary consideration. As these agents are controlled substances, monitoring is essential to prevent misuse or misdirection. In terms of nonpharmacological strategies, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or relaxation with educational support are common adjuncts to standard medication therapy. There is some evidence to support behavioral interventions as well. What gaps in treatment exist today, and how can we address them? While there are many stimulants and nonstimulants approved for treating adult ADHD, some patients still experience symptoms and functional impairments. To bridge these gaps, we have several clinical trials currently underway that are testing psychostimulants for a variety of different symptom sets, including those that affect co-traveling symptoms, known to affect higher-level organizational and planning processes, emotional regulation, and sluggishness of thought and action. We are also pioneering studies involving individual- and group-based CBT and noninvasive neuromodulatory interventions. It is hoped that these studies will provide us with insight into unresolved questions and open new pathways for personalized treatment. Psychiatry, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Lenard A. Adler, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry. His research and clinical interests center on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults. He serves as vice chair for education in the Department of Psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD Program. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting In May, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2023 annual meeting in San Francisco. The theme was “Innovate, Collaborate, Motivate: Charting the Future of Mental Health.” Saturday, May 20 Your Mental Health Starts in Your Gut Microbiota Gia Merlo, MD : 8–9:30 am : Room 160, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Metabolic Regulators of Psychological Stress and Brain Trauma 3:45–5:15 pm : Room 153, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Fentanyl Sneaks into Social Media: High Risk Adolescent Substance Use in the Online Era Jose Vito, MD Co-Authors : Katrina B. Kostro, MD, Ryan Badolato, MD : 1:30–3 pm Symptom, Perpetuator, Catalyst: The Impact of Homelessness on the Trajectory of Mental Health Care : Daniel Laor, MD (Dis)Trust Your Gut: Serotonin and the GI Tract : Aydar Shaildayev, MD Sunday, May 21 Overcoming Disparities in Alcohol Treatment Among BIPOC Women : Room 211, Moscone South, Second Level Exploring Cannabidiol’s Efficacy in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder, PTSD, and Traumatic Brain Injury Discussant: 10:30 am–noon : Room 303, Moscone South, Third Level Impact of Telemedicine on Utilization of Psychiatric Resources in New York City During the COVID-19 Pandemic : Sarah J. Ricklan, MD, M.Phil. NYU Langone Co-Author Carina M. Lorenz, MD : 3:45–5:15 pm Monday, May 22 The Promise of Precision Medicine for Treating Alcohol Use Disorder and PTSD 1:30–3 pm Psychiatrist Knowledge and Attitudes Regarding HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Across Three Sites Mark V. Bradley, MD Tuesday, May 23 Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Psychiatry Research : Room 201, Moscone South, Second Level At-Home Sublingual Ketamine for Depression: Large Scale Outcomes and Safety Matteo Malgaroli, PhD : Room 154, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine A Subacute Inpatient Unit for People Experiencing Homelessness and Serious Mental Illness in NYC Carine Nzodom, MD : Room 212, Moscone South, Second Level Racial/Ethnic Disparities in Engagement and Clinical Outcomes from a Collaborative Care Model for Depression and Anxiety : Kelly Yang A Review of the Clinical Trials Derived from the Systematic Reviews of Psilocybin Use in Substance Use Disorders Ritvij Satodiya, MD Wednesday, May 24 To Look or Not to Look: Vicarious Trauma from Reviewing Graphic Images Raina Aggarwal, MD : Rooms 305/309, Moscone South, Third Level “No One Leaves Home Unless Home Is the Mouth of a Shark”: Collaborating to Advance the Emotional Health of LGBTQ Individuals in Crisis Zones Omar Fattal, MD, MPH : Room 214, Moscone South, Second Level Virtual Summer Course Lifestyle Psychiatry for Optimal Performance and Mental Health NYU Langone Faculty Available : June 26–August 25 Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy Michele B. Glodowski, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Specializing in transgender endocrinology, Michele B. Glodowski, MD , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s comprehensive transgender health program where she runs the gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic. Here, she discusses the evolving landscape of hormone therapy, the need for studies that capture the diverse concerns of transgender and gender diverse patients, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance individualized care. A Role for Progesterone in Feminizing Hormone Therapy A combination of estrogen and anti-androgens is the most studied regimen for feminizing hormone therapy, and there is controversy regarding the inclusion of progesterone. Any developments regarding the benefits versus risks of progesterone? Dr. Glodowski: Unfortunately, we’re still in need of bigger and better studies. The safety data that we have for progesterone, which points to concerns regarding the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease, is based off studies in postmenopausal cis women with a mean age of 65. We’re missing specific data for our patient population on both benefit and safety. Keeping that in mind, for most young, healthy patients, it’s probably safe. So we’re using it pending better studies. Assessing Metabolic Changes in Non-Binary Transmasculine Patients Is your clinic involved in any current studies? We are doing a small retrospective cohort study assessing metabolic changes in non-binary transmasculine patients. There’s a lot of data, mainly from Europe and the Netherlands, looking at metabolic changes in transgender men and finding increases in blood pressure, cholesterol, and weight. There have been few studies with gender non-binary patients who are on lower doses of testosterone. We wonder if it makes a difference, especially when thinking about the uterine lining or abnormal uterine bleeding. Our study is looking at a number of metabolic parameters in non-binary transmasculine patients at our clinic before starting hormone therapy and then after. Expanding Access to Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy What elements are important when building a gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic? Dr. Glodowski: Our program has several unique strengths. The first is that appointments at our clinic are reserved specifically for patients seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy. As general endocrinologists and primary care doctors, we have many patients looking to schedule with us. Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now. “Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now.” The other strength is our experienced surgeons. Our team performs more than 550 gender-affirming surgeries each year. From plastic surgeons to urologists, we have surgical expertise available to help with those components of their care. A Unique Area for Individualized Care Given the unique need for a personalized approach in transgender health, what are you learning at NYU Langone about delivering that level of individualized treatment? I can’t highlight enough how important it is in this field to have an individualized and patient-centered approach. For a patient who identifies as gender non-binary, we might target a different testosterone level, or they might remain on testosterone for varying amounts of time. For a transfeminine patient for whom erectile function is important, we might target a slightly higher testosterone level. At our clinic, we establish goals and expectations upfront so that we’re all on the same page. We’re also flexible. If goals change, we can change the regimen. Training Early-Career Physicians in Transgender Health How do you see training and education moving forward in this rapidly evolving area? Educating future endocrinologists and doctors is a key step to expanding access to transgender care. Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in. For example, if you’re a breast cancer surgeon, you will see a patient who is transfeminine or transmasculine and you should understand each patient’s individual risk. “Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in.” We have a strong group of fellows in the endocrine division who rotate through our clinic. In addition, medical students, residents, or other fellows with a particular interest in hormone therapy often shadow me as well. Michele B. Glodowski, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine. She specializes in integrated transgender endocrinology and care. Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Endothelial Cells. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff A recent study in the Journal of Clinical Investigation has revealed a new pathway by which endothelial cells internalize and distribute dietary lipids to surrounding tissue. The findings not only provide clarity regarding the movement of lipids across the endothelium but may also explain the biological process underlying cutaneous eruptive xanthomas, lesions in the skin composed of lipid-laden macrophages. “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues.” “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues,” says , senior author on the study and the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology. Lipid Delivery Pathways For skin and other tissues with continuous, non-fenestrated capillaries, lipid delivery requires the regulated movement of lipoproteins or their components across the endothelial cell barrier. Atherogenic low-density lipoproteins (LDL) can be taken up and transcytosed across endothelial cells as intact particles. Recently, studies have helped define the specific receptors on the artery wall involved in this process. By allowing the transfer of LDL across endothelial cells, these receptors promote cholesterol deposition into the arterial wall and initiate atherosclerosis. In contrast, lipid delivery from larger lipoproteins, like chylomicrons, has long been thought to hinge upon lipolysis at the capillary surface, most notably by the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL). Docked at the apical membrane of endothelial cells, LPL cleaves apart chylomicrons, with the released fatty acids then readily taken up by endothelial cells and distributed to surrounding tissue. “However, an increasing body of clinical and experimental evidence suggests the existence of alternative pathways for endothelial chylomicron-derived lipid uptake independent of LPL activity,” wrote the authors. Uptake of Intact Chylomicrons To test this, Goldberg and colleagues studied the movement of chylomicrons into endothelial cells in a setting of LPL deficiency. In doing so, they discovered an LPL-exclusive pathway by which endothelial cells internalize intact chylomicrons, metabolize them in lysosomes, and either store or release the lipids. The investigators further demonstrated that the released lipids can be taken up by skin macrophages and lead to lipid accumulation, as is seen in eruptive xanthomas. The novel pathway may help explain the common development of cutaneous xanthomas in patients with genetic LPL deficiency. “Our results imply that uptake of chylomicrons by endothelial cells may be an important and under-appreciated pathway for the delivery of circulating triglyceride-rich lipoprotein-derived lipids that is exclusive of intravascular lipolysis,” wrote the authors. Beyond Skin Macrophages “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease.” Although the study focused on skin macrophages, Goldberg and colleagues suspect that uptake and processessing of chylomicrons by endothelial cells likely plays a large role the in the delivery of lipids to many parenchymal tissues. “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease,” Dr. Goldberg says. Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression New research shows an artificial intelligence (AI) tool effectively detected distress in hospital workers’ conversations with their therapists. Journal of Medical Internet Research AI , the findings suggest a potential new use of AI to screen for depression and anxiety. During the COVID-19 pandemic, virtual psychotherapy grew as a treatment option for strained healthcare workers. Researchers examined a series of digitalized session transcripts using an AI technique called natural language processing (NLP). They identified common phrases used by patients and tied the terms to mental illness. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text. The study, led by NYU Langone Health psychologist , is the first application of NLP to identify markers of psychological distress in healthcare workers, according to the authors. “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns.” “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges on top of their regular job-related stressors that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns,” says Dr. Malgaroli. Teletherapy Transcripts as Screening Tools Analysis involved treatment transcripts from more than 800 physicians, nurses, and emergency medical staff. Also included were transcripts from 820 people receiving psychotherapy during the first U.S. wave of COVID-19 but not working in healthcare. The study revealed that among healthcare workers, those who spoke to their therapists specifically about working in a hospital unit, lack of sleep, or mood issues were more likely to get an anxiety and depression diagnosis compared with healthcare workers who did not discuss these topics. These risks were not seen in workers from other fields who discussed the pandemic or their jobs. “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms.” Naomi M. Simon, MD “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms,” says study co-author , a professor and vice chair in the While the overall heightened risk for anxiety and depression among those who discussed working in a hospital was small (3.6 percent), the study authors say they expect the model to capture additional signs of distress as more data are added. Confidential Self-Assessments Dr. Malgaroli notes that another potential use for this model could be to provide healthcare workers a way to record themselves answering brief questions. The NLP model could potentially detect their risks for mental health conditions and provide confidential feedback, including resources to seek additional support if they chose it. The researchers caution that the report only captured the mental state of patients early in their treatment. The team now plans to explore how the discussion topics change over time as therapy progresses. Matteo Malgaroli, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in digital mental health at the intersection of psychiatry, AI, and technology. Naomi M. Simon, MD, is a professor and vice chair for research faculty development and mentorship in the Department of Psychiatry. Her research interests include clinical and translational research in the understanding and treatment of anxiety and stress-related disorders and prolonged grief. Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast Listen now to hear luminaries in the field discuss the latest research-informed interventions. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Psychiatrists urge increased screening for symptoms of internet gaming disorder. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness New program tackles access challenges for lifesaving mental health services. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine Inaugural American Society of Addiction Medicine award recipient discusses the shared responsibility to redress inequities. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users A new study reveals overwhelming support among pharmacists for participation in interventions. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update A 61-year-old female showing features of atypical diaphyseal femoral fracture. Reprinted under a Creative Commons license from Rajput I, Kumar J, Siddiqui A A, et al. (May 17, 2019) Surgical Fixation of Atypical Femur Fractures in Bisphosphonate-treated Patients. Cureus 11(5): e4690. Valerie Peck, MD , is a recognized expert in osteoporosis and metabolic bone diseases. Here, she discusses the evidence for bisphosphonates in the treatment of osteoporosis, the need for provider education about atypical femoral fractures, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance both detection and prevention. Benefits and Risks of Bisphosphonates Bisphosphonates are often recommended as a first-line treatment for postmenopausal osteoporosis, although there is controversy regarding the association between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Any updates regarding the benefits versus risks of bisphosphonates? Dr. Peck: After the earliest case reports on bisphosphonate-related atypical femoral fractures back in 2007, we began assessing a series of these patients and have been following them since that time. Atypical femoral fractures were always uncommon, but today the number of patients presenting with atypical fractures is markedly decreased. Essentially, there are two clinical scenarios of concern. Some patients receive bisphosphonate therapy for too long, and should stop, while other high-risk patients should continue to receive therapy, and choose to stop. Balancing Prevention and Detection How do we find a balance between the detection of atypical femoral fractures and prevention of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures? For most patients, the reduction in vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fracture risk greatly outweighs atypical fracture risk. However, as the duration of bisphosphonate therapy increases, the risk of atypical fractures also increases. If too many patients discontinue bisphosphonate therapy, we may see a reverse trend with an increase in the number of regular fractures. The majority of clinicians agree that drug holidays are beneficial for many patients. Typically, after three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug. “After three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug.” Guideline Recommendations Are there clinical practice guideline recommendations to inform the optimal duration of bisphosphonate therapy? Currently there are clinical management recommendations but not a consistent clinical guideline. Within these recommendations, each patient’s duration of therapy needs to be individualized. Our current research is focused on populations at higher risk for atypical femoral fractures, including those who are younger and more active, Asian populations, and those with certain femur geometries. Genetics is also a relevant risk factor, and research studies are underway. In patients at high risk for fracture, longer-term bisphosphonate therapy may be indicated. In many of these cases, switching to an anabolic agent or another therapy is more appropriate. Optimizing Strategies for Detection What are your recommendations for the detection of atypical fractures in patients on long-term bisphosphonate therapy? If a patient has been on bisphosphonate therapy for five years or longer, and they are going to continue therapy, or switch to another antiresorptive drug, clinicians should assess for early signs of atypical femoral fracture. Initially, we detect these early incomplete fractures using X-ray imaging of the femur, where a very astute radiologist can detect early signs of focal cortical thickening. More recently, using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening. “Using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening.” In this way, we can detect early incomplete atypical fractures when patients come to clinic for routine bone densities. The software is only available at some of our sites, but is a unique feature of NYU Langone Health’s osteoporosis unit. The availability of DXA machines with this new software could allow for both prevention of complete atypical fractures and greater individualization of treatment, resulting in great benefit for patients. Additional Resources Where can readers learn more about the early detection of atypical fractures for patients on bisphosphonate therapy? If readers want to learn more, I’d refer them to the 2019 International Society for Clinical Densitometry Official Position . I was involved in the development of these recommendations as a member of the working group. Thyroid Disorders, Bone Health Valerie Peck, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine. Her research focuses on thyroid diseases and osteoporosis, including the link between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and clinicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2023 Scientific Sessions in Philadelphia. View At this year’s AHA Scientific Sessions, , will be named a 2023 AHA Distinguished Scientist. This award recognizes individuals who have made major contributions to the affairs of the scientific council over a continuing period, and who have made substantial professional contributions to the field represented by the council. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See a full list of NYU Langone presenters here Award Presentation AHA 2023 Distinguished Scientist Awardee Saturday, November 11, 8 am : Main Event I Friday, November 10 Visit Volume Influences the Effectiveness of Electronic Tools to Improve Heart Failure Care Leora Horwitz, MD Stuart D. Katz, MD 11:45­–11:55 am 102AB Saturday, November 11 Resuscitative TEE – Ready for Prime Time? Carlos L. Alviar, MD 10:17–10:26 am Poster Abstract Electrocardiographic Correlates of Cardiac MRI Finding in Women with MINOCA Mitchell Pleasure, Harmony Reynolds, MD : 11:30 am–12:45 pm Zone 4, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Panel Participant Controversies in High-Risk Percutaneous Coronary Interventions: It Doesn’t Matter How You Do It, As Long As You Do It Well! : 2:20–2:45 pm : 107AB Sunday, November 12 Clinical Trials in Cardiogenic Shock: Challenges Faced and Lessons Learned : 8–8:12 am : Main Event II Utility of CR in Unique Populations: SCAD, INOCA : 9–9:15 am : 104AB In Vitro Aspirin Responsiveness Can Predict Platelet Hyperreactivity and Cardiovascular Risk Jeffery S. Berger, MD , Sarah Liberow : Zone 1, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Heart Transplant in Older Adults: Outcomes in the Modern Era of Transplant Jennifer A. Cruz, DO , Stephanie Golob, MD, Bernard S. Kadosh, MD Haider Nazeer, MD : 3:30–4:45 pm : Zone 2, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Monday, November 13 Digital Health Interventions for the Optimization of Postpartum Cardiovascular Health: A Systematic Review : Darcy Banco, MD, MPH, Dorice Vieira, MPH : 10:30–11:45 am : Zone 3, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 A Wearable Accelerometry and AI Framework for Phenotyping Step-Count Trajectories in Older Adults Undergoing Cardiac Rehabilitation Souptik Barua , Stephanie Peña, Kelly Tellez AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD To date, lack of an accurate mechanism for measuring the QTc interval has represented a significant challenge for clinicians, especially among high-risk patient groups such as those with atrial fibrillation (A-fib). New research from NYU Langone Health suggests estimating the QTc interval using artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval associated with risk of torsades de pointes. A research team led by cardiologist , developed the AI-driven QT correction algorithm to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval in A-fib. A report published in JACC: Clinical Electrophysiology shows the tool could be useful in cases where a concurrent sinus electrocardiogram (ECG) is not available, potentially addressing both QT measurement and correction problems. “Determination of the QTc interval is of critical importance. And in A-fib, it is very difficult to accurately measure the QTc,” Dr. Jankelson says. Leveraging the Dataset The researchers’ convolutional neural network (CNN)–based model was designed to maximize objectivity and clinical applicability. Their approach incorporated the ECG signal as well as general patient and cardiac-specific data, such as sex, race, QRS duration, heart rate, and more into the predictions. “We identified patients with a 10-second 12-lead ECG in A-fib within 10 days of a sinus ECG with similar QRS durations,” Dr. Jankelson explains. The full dataset included 6,432 patients in A-fib with an average age of 71 years. The data were randomly divided to generate subsets, with 60 percent allotted to training, 20 percent to validation, and 20 percent to testing. Dr. Jankelson and his team evaluated the model for predicting the QTc value in the sinus ECG based on an input of the A-fib ECG waveform and its associated features. High Degree of Accuracy After training, the model performed best for ruling out QTc prolongation, exhibiting high negative predictive value (0.82 in males and 0.92 in females) and specificity (0.92 in males and 0.97 in females). In addition, approximately 84 percent and 97 percent of the predictions were contained within 1 standard deviation (SD) and 2 SD from the sinus QTc interval. The model also outperformed the AFQTc method, exhibiting significantly narrower error ranges. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” “To our knowledge, this is the first published deep neural network developed for QTc prediction in A-fib ECGs,” Dr. Jankelson says. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” Improvements Over Time As with most AI-driven models, performance improves over time. Dr. Jankelson says the model might therefore be used to inform clinical decision-making in various patient cases. “For example, QT-prolonging medications for the management of A-fib or comorbid conditions could potentially be safely prescribed, using data derived from the AI tool,” Dr. Jankelson explains. “The clinical impact of this AI tool is potentially great with integration into existing EMRs or commercially available ECG software,” he adds. Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Inherited Arrhythmia Program at NYU Langone’s Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests include artificial intelligence, atrial fibrillation, and cardiac device management. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD A New Strategy to Tackle Ostial Stenosis A 22-year-old man with congenital heart disease recently underwent a coronary arterioplasty—an innovative approach to alleviate stenosis for a patient who underwent an arterial switch operation (ASO) as an infant for d-transposition of the great arteries. The case was recently described in the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Techniques While ostial stenosis or kinking is a well-recognized complication of ASO, the patient’s anatomy did not lend itself well to more traditional repairs. This patient had a single coronary artery that arose from the right-facing sinus before bifurcating. It split into a widely patent and dominant right coronary artery and a left main coronary artery (LMCA) that was severely stenosed at its origin. The atypical course of the LMCA along the aortic wall also presented challenges. “Catheterization and percutaneous angioplasty of the LMCA with possible coronary stenting was deemed unpredictable in the long run with a risk of occluding the adjacent right coronary artery. We had to choose surgery,” says , a cardiologist specializing in adult congenital heart disease. “Onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” The care team, which included primary surgeon , both pediatric and adult congenital cardiothoracic surgeons, also decided against coronary artery bypass grafting because of the patient’s young age. Instead, the team made an incision across the LMCA ostium—well past the stenosis—to fit a 6 millimeter femoral artery homograft that had been fashioned into an oval-shaped patch. The patch augmented the narrowed segment of LMCA, the area of bifurcation, and the opening of the single coronary artery. After patch placement, both coronary arteries were widely patent on angiogram and the patient was discharged on aspirin. “Complex and sometimes silent proximal coronary narrowings can occur years following the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries,” Dr. Mosca says. “Options including intracoronary stenting or coronary artery bypass grafting can prove suboptimal, particularly in younger adults. No perfect solution exists, however, onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” Unusual Anatomy Informs Approach Coronary computed tomography angiogram showing stenosis (yellow arrow). SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Catheterization and coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed decades after an arterial switch procedure that a 22-year-old patient had a single coronary artery (yellow arrow) bifurcated into a dominant right coronary artery and an LMCA that was severely stenosed at its origin. Patch Augmentation Using Homograft Material Surgeon’s view during the procedure to relieve the stenosis. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Surgeons extended the aortotomy incision into the proximal LMCA past the stenosis. Then, they placed a femoral artery homograft onlay patch across the region and slightly onto the ascending aorta. The patch’s natural endothelial lining theoretically makes it less thrombogenic as compared to other types of artificial patches, Dr. Mosca says. A Successful Follow-Up Coronary computed tomography angiogram 6 months following the procedure. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Six months after the procedure, coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed a patent left (red arrow) as well as right main coronary artery. The patient was also asymptomatic at follow-up. Dan G. Halpern, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and the medical director of the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program. His clinical interests include care for adults with congenital heart defects, aortopathies, and pregnant patients with heart disease. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management While revascularization in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and myocardial infarction (MI) decreases mortality and recurrent MI, outcomes in stable ischemic heart disease (SIHD) are less well understood. Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the ISCHEMIA-EXTEND study is the long-term follow-up of randomized, participants in the ISCHEMIA ISCHEMIA-CKD trials. “Initial results from ISCHEMIA showed durable improvements in angina control and quality of life with initial invasive management—but no differences in major adverse cardiac events and mortality,” says , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology and a leader of many complex international clinical trials. Building Upon Earlier Results The ISCHEMIA and ISCHEMIA-CKD investigators and their global partners presented the initial findings at the American Heart Association (AHA) Scientific Sessions in November 2019 and published the results of both trials in in April 2020. VIDEO: Dr. Judith S. Hochman discusses interim results of the landmark ISCHEMIA study at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions. Among patients with stable coronary disease and moderate or severe ischemia, the researchers did not find evidence that an initial invasive management strategy, as compared with an initial conservative management strategy, lowered the risk of ischemic cardiovascular events or death from any cause. In ISCHEMIA-CKD, they observed similar results among patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Moreover, there was an early excess of peri-procedural MI and a late reduction in spontaneous MI in both studies. Building upon these results, ISCHEMIA-EXTEND was pioneered to assess whether an initial invasive strategy reduces long-term all-cause mortality as compared with an initial conservative strategy over an extended period of follow-up. At its launch, more than 5,000 participants worldwide entered the trial. “It is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” “Prior evidence shows that spontaneous MI has a larger impact on subsequent death than most peri-procedural MIs,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Thus, it is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” A Continued Investigation AHA Scientific Sessions 2022 , that took place November 5 to 7 in Chicago, Illinois, and virtually, Dr. Hochman presented the interim results of ISCHEMIA-EXTEND on behalf of the research group. After a median follow-up of 5.7 years, the researchers found that initial invasive management compared with initial conservative management resulted in no difference in all-cause mortality, but there was a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality and higher risk of non-cardiovascular mortality. “These findings provide important evidence for whether