CARING FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT 2024Annual Sustainability ReportTABLE OFCONTENTSMessage from the Dean and CEO4About NYU Langone Health5Environmental Stewardship6Goals & Governance8Climate & Health 9Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions 10Our Pillars: Reduce Our Impact12Our Pillars:Increase Resiliency16Our Pillars: Create Healthy Environments18Our Pillars:Advocate for a Sustainable Healthcare Future204513M+ ft2Space Portfolio11.3MOutpatient Visits300+Locations51,000Employees in Total5,233Physicians and FacultyOUR CARE IN NUMBERSNYU Langone Health, one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, has a trifold mission to care, to teach, and to discover, which is achieved daily through an integrated academic culture devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research. At NYU Langone, we emphasize treating the whole person and not simply the disease. We are renowned for evidence based clinical care across a wide array of specialties, including cardiac and vascular care, neurology and neurosurgery, cancer, musculoskeletal care, pediatric services, and more.Our mission to advance science and improve healthcare through scientific discovery brings together outstanding scientists and clinical researchers—at both NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine—fostering highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. Our scientists have access to state of the art technology from analytic chemistry and bioinformatics to tissue banking and genomics in more than 20 core facilities.New YorkTHE BRONXSTATENISLANDQUEENSNASSAUWESTCHESTERSUFFOLKConnecticutNew JerseyMANHATTANFAIRFIELDBERGENFloridaMIAMI DADEPALM BEACHBROWARDBROOKLYNMANHATTAN(1)NYU LangoneHospital—Long IslandNYU LangoneHospital—BrooklynLong Island Community Hospital (affiliate)(1)(3)Tisch HospitalNYU Langone Orthopedic HospitalKimmel Pavilion &Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street(1)As of July 2024Dear Community Members and Patients, At NYU Langone Health, our purpose is to deliver the best outcomes in patient care, education, and science, and we work every day to innovate and affect meaningful change throughout the institution and beyond. This includes how we care for the environment.I am happy to introduce our 2024 Sustainability Report that explores our proactive response to environmental risks—from addressing climate change driven environmental stressors that negatively impact health to reducing our environmental footprint by designing more efficient facilities and publishing research that explains the link between climate change and poor health outcomes. While we are proud of the many steps we have taken, we know we cannot stop here—caring for the environment requires our ongoing, collective effort. We will continue to collaborate with communities and health systems nationwide to advance the highest standard for sustainability in healthcare. Thank you for being part of this journey.Sincerely,Robert I. Grossman, MDDean and CEOMESSAGE FROM THE DEAN AND CEOABOUTNYU LANGONE HEALTH67A healthy planet means healthy people.We are committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050. At NYU Langone Health, caring for patients and communities extends to our care for the environment. Climate change is a global health issue, and it affects the livelihood of patients, communities, and staff. Flooding, wildfires, heatwaves, and other climate related hazards are becoming more intense, longer, and more frequent due to climate change. These hazards all carry significant health and economic impacts.Our work to significantly reduce our greenhouse gases will not only reduce the demand of natural resources through efficient operations and cleaner energy, but also build and support healthy and equitable communities. As we innovate and lead initiatives to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities, it is equally as important to leverage our voice and size to advocate for decarbonization throughout the healthcare value chain.Program Pillars NYU Langone’s sustainability program stands on four pillars to ultimately build a culture of sustainability within the organization and to embed these priorities as part of our everyday operations and decision making. The physical environment plays an important role in wellness and health outcomes, and this informs every aspect of our design. We use materials and furnishings that are free of chemicals of concern, provide views and access to nature, and maintain high levels of air filtration to ensure fresh air is continuously supplied.Vicki Match Suna, AIAExecutive Vice President and Vice Dean for Real Estate Development and FacilitiesReduce Our ImpactReduce our greenhouse gas emissions, environmental impact, energy, water, waste, and resource use. Create Healthy EnvironmentsDesign facilities that improve health and the environment, and promote healthy, sustainable behaviors. Conduct relevant research to support these efforts.Increase Resiliency Mitigate long term risk to our facilities and supply chains, and build better for the future.Advocate for a Sustainable Healthcare FutureProvide sustainability and climate resiliency leadership, join climate action, educate staff to inspire change & inform patients about the health risks driven by climate change.Committed to reduce carbon emissions by by 2019 as part of the NYC Carbon ChallengeLaunched system wide reprocessing program for single use clinical devicesIncluded sustainability and green building goals and standards in NYU Langone’s Design & Engineering Guidelines for the first timeManhattan Main Campus became the first U.S. Green Building Council PEER and LEED Platinum certified campus in the worldDesflurane eliminated from formulary to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from anesthetic gasesReleased first public environmental sustainability report Entered into partnership for 8MW of battery storage that provides support for the NYC energy grid transitionAchieved original NYC Carbon Challenge reduction goal ahead of schedule and expanded goal to by 2025Joined Health Care Without Harm Safer Chemicals Challenge to reduce the use of chemicals of concern in furniture, furnishings, and cleaning and medical productsBegan modernization and expansion of system wide recycling program, rolling out signage, thousands of new bins, and extensive staff educationJoined the U.S. Health Care Climate Council as the first New York City member and joined the International Health Care Challenge Set new goal to be a carbon neutral health system by 2050, with an interim goal of reduction by 2030ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP501,000 pounds of e waste recycled in 202385 environmental and energy awards to date11farmers markets hosted in 2023111,735 pounds of clinical single use devices collected for reprocessing in 20232,279metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions avoided from our OR ventilation setback program every year 35+ operating rooms that recycle rigid plastics220pounds of honey produced from our three rooftop bee hives 5 LEED certified buildings to date 630+indoor and outdoor bike racks installed for our staff and the community35,000 gallons of stormwater can be collected for the Science Building, which is filtered and reused for landscape irrigation and low flow toilets89Sustainability is the responsibility of all. In 2009, the Board of Trustees at NYU Langone Health formed a Sustainability Advisory Group to oversee environmental initiatives at the hospital. The Energy & Sustainability team is a part of NYU Langone’s Real Estate Development and Facilities department. Key Goals & CommitmentsHHS Health Sector Climate Pledge In 2022, NYU Langone joined the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Climate Pledge, along with other leading health systems around the country, to strengthen climate resiliency in healthcare. NYU Langone is among just a handful of health systems in New York State to join this pledge. Pledge commitments include: • Achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, publicly accounting for progress on this goal every year.• Designate an executive level lead for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and conduct a full GHG inventory including indirect emissions.• Develop a climate resilience plan for continuous operations, anticipating needs of community groups that experience disproportionate risk of climate related harm.NYC Carbon Challenge for HospitalsNYU Langone joined the NYC Carbon Challenge for hospitals in 2009 to support New York City’s climate goals and to align with other local health systems in accelerating climate progress. Under this voluntary leadership initiative we have established a building based carbon reduction goal by 2025 for owned and operated buildings in NYC. Key MembershipsUS Health Care Climate CouncilNYU Langone is a member of Health Care Without Harm’s (HCWH) U.S. Health Care Climate Council, a leadership body of hospitals and health systems committed to protecting their patients and employees from the health impacts of climate change and becoming anchors for resilient communities. Membership, which is by invitation, comprises 19 top health systems representing over 550 hospitals and 9,500 health centers in 45 states, with more than 1.2 million employees serving over 77 million patients annually. The Council requires members to commit to setting and publicly releasing goals and plans for each of three pillars of mitigation, resilience, and leadership. New York State Clean Green CampusesNYU Langone is part of the Clean Green Campuses network of colleges and universities that support clean energy projects and principles on campus, in the classroom, and in surrounding communities. As a member, we allocate resources to research, clean energy adoption, and sustainability practices for the NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine campuses.GOALS & GOVERNANCECLIMATE & HEALTHTIMELINE OF GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION GOALSClimate change is undermining not just the health of our planet, but the health of people everywhere. Global greenhouse gas emissions from human activities continue to increase, resulting in rapid warming and other large scale changes including rising sea levels, melting ice, ocean warming and acidification, and shifting rainfall patterns.1 These changes are worsening the physical and mental health of staff, patients, and our communities.The impacts of global warming are becoming more apparent every day. 2023 was the planet’s warmest year since global records began in 1850.2 Flooding, wildfires, heatwaves and other climate related hazards are becoming more intense, longer, and more frequent due to climate change. It is an established fact that climate change is harming physical, mental, spiritual, and community health and well being through higher rates of heat related illness, increasing cases of infectious and vector borne diseases, and declines in air, food, and water quality. Climate related hazards will continue to grow, increasing morbidity and mortality across all regions of the US.3 Many of the results of climate change are also contributing to homelessness, hunger, and disruptions to social norms, and exacerbating existing social inequities. The healthcare sector is both a significant contributor of the emissions fueling climate change and uniquely obligated to respond to its resulting public health impacts. NYU Langone’s response includes mitigating our environmental impact and adapting our health system to be able to provide care far into the future. It also means addressing public infrastructure resilience and community health. We understand that doing so can protect human health and improve health equity.Climate change drives key environmental and social impacts that may exacerbate diseases and negative health outcomes. The figure below shows those hazards and health impacts most relevant to NYU Langone Health and its patient populations. Reduction in NYC Buildings by 2025 Emissions IntensityCarbon Neutral Health System by 2050 Absolute Emissions Reduction in Total Scope 1 & 2 by 2025 Emissions IntensityGraphic adapted for NYU Langone Health from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and J. Patz and the California Department of Public Health’s Office of Climate Equity.1011Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions offers a multitude of benefits ranging from improving air quality in the communities we serve and increasing our resiliency, to supporting the local economy and making our buildings healthier and more comfortable for patients and staff.It is essential that NYU Langone measures and tracks its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in both absolute and intensity terms, to make sure progress is being made against its goals and to identify the greatest opportunities for further reduction. GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of equivalent carbon dioxide (MT CO2e) and are classified in three scopes according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.4• Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources, such as fuel combustion in facilities or vehicles or fugitive emissions from other gases such as refrigerants or anesthetics.• Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy, such as electricity and steam.• Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. NYU Langone has grown tremendously in both geography and operations since establishing our first carbon reduction goal, which is why we have expanded our newest goals under the HHS pledge. Our current carbon neutrality goal applies to all of NYU Langone Health system in locations where we have operational control. As an interim goal, NYU Langone has committed to a reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity (MT CO2e/square feet) by 2030 from a 2021 baseline. As of the end of 2023, we have reduced emissions intensity by . We are also now undertaking a comprehensive Scope 3 inventory analysis. Having the full picture of the health system’s GHG emissions from all areas of activity will inform prioritization of long term decarbonization strategies. NYC Carbon ChallengeThe NYC Carbon Challenge is a voluntary leadership initiative of commercial, institutional, and non profit leaders who have committed to decarbonizing their properties. In 2009, NYU Langone joined the NYC Carbon Challenge for hospitals to support the city’s climate goals and to align with other local health systems to accelerate climate progress. In 2015, we achieved our first building energy carbon reduction goal of from the established 2005 baseline, four years ahead of schedule. Building on that success, NYU Langone signed on to an augmented goal of carbon reduction by 2025. According to the Mayor’s Office, the Carbon Challenge participants have together cut their annual emissions by more than 900,000 MT CO2e.5 As of the end of 2023, NYU Langone has reduced of its building based carbon emissions intensity as defined under the Challenge framework and inventory protocol for 6.27M square feet of NYC real estate, or nearly half of the institution’s total square footage. In 2023, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s central plant saw a major upgrade to replace end of life equipment. Our new state of the art magnetic bearing electric drive chillers are 40 more energy efficient than traditional chillers. New chilled water pumps are equipped with variable frequency drives, allowing real time adjustments to meet building cooling needs. These new additions are estimated to save 1,220,773 kWh and 353 tCO2e each year. These efforts along with the facility's upgraded combined heat and power plant enhances the campus’ resiliency to adapt to changing climates. 2023 NYU Langone Health Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO2e) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2TOTAL EMISSIONS202,655 SCOPE 1Natural Gas: 38. Other Fuels: 0.Refrigerants: 4.Inhaled Anesthetic Gases: 5.Transportation: SCOPE 2Electricity: 43.District Steam: 6. OURGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1213NYU Langone Health’s sustainability program develops initiatives aimed at reducing our environmental impact such as responsible waste practices and reducing pollution and chemical use. It is a collaborative effort across the institution to implement best practices and build a culture of sustainability among staff.Building Energy Healthcare delivery and medical research are energy intensive practices due to strict indoor environmental requirements for health, safety, and infection prevention. NYU Langone has a diverse building portfolio, with hospital and research lab campuses representing nearly two thirds our total square footage and nearly of the institution’s Scope 1 & 2 emissions are from building energy use. It is essential that we tackle this significant source of emissions. Lowering energy usage will decrease our reliance on the energy grid and allow us to operate longer on backup power systems. It will also reduce our use of fossil fuels, which would improve the air quality in the communities we serve and reduce our contribution to climate change. By the end of 2023, we have reduced Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity by , despite a increase in overall square footage. Most of this reduction is driven by our building energy conservation and efficiency efforts, which is the backbone of our sustainability program. Our longstanding and robust energy management program focuses on resilient infrastructure design and operations. Since 2008, the energy program has achieved $76M in net energy savings with a return on investment. These savings were driven by system wide energy projects such as HVAC upgrades, LED retrofits, steam reduction projects, and plug load management, alongside deeper energy retrofits that increase the resiliency and reliability of our energy systems. We pair these high impact projects with continuous monitoring and enhanced building automation strategies to make sure that systems are functioning optimally. NYU Langone is also enrolled in the New York State ReCharge NY program offered by the New York Power Authority (NYPA). The institution receives roughly 7MW of equivalent power from NYPA of which half is sourced from State generated zero emissions hydro power. As part of the program, organizations accessing this lower cost power have made commitments such as remaining in the state, retaining employment, and making local investments in their business.OUR PILLARS:REDUCE OUR IMPACTNYU Langone holds annual protocol reviews and exercises on coastal storm preparedness to ensure all relevant staff understands their role during incidents. Pictured here is a staff training on deploying flood barriers on the Manhattan Main Campus. Our massive network of 127 flood barriers; 61 exterior flood doors, hatches and gates; and 51 dewatering pumps help harden the campus and protect the perimeter. ENERGY CONSERVATION & EFFICIENCY PROGRAMSOperating Room Unoccupied SetbacksReduce energy usage during hours of nonoperation using automation.PC Power ManagementDeploy computer sleep schedules to reduce wasted energy by an average of per device.LED LightingRetrofitted a total of 46,722 light fixtures saving 6.7M kWh and ensuring only LEDs are installed in new buildings.Auditing & Retro CommissioningImprove operations and enforce construction standards, all while meeting safety & reliability standards.Demand ResponseReduces electrical load to support the grid and prevent local blackouts.Reporting & AnalyticsMonitor the portfolio to identify operational issues or wasted energy that can be corrected.Building Automation SystemsDeveloped sophisticated sequences of operation and monitoring to optimize HVAC operations and energy usage.Linear Generator ProjectsInstall low carbon electrical generation assets with below utility power prices.NYU Langone Health Building Types(Square Feet) CLINICALAmbulatory Surgical Center: 11.Hospital: 31.Medical Office: 25. OTHEROther: 3. RESEARCH Dry Lab: 0.Wet Lab: 14. RESIDENTIAL Dormitory: 3.Multi Family: 6.Single Family: 0. OFFICE Office: 3.TOTAL SQUARE FEET 12,033,743 1415Responsible Waste Management We actively manage more than 10 waste streams to ensure waste does not end up in landfills unnecessarily. All waste disposal methods release GHG emissions and are considered a category under Scope 3. We focus on creating consistent, institution wide policies and programs that drive optimal and sustainable operations. Some key programs that delivered on waste reduction in 2023 include the following:Furniture Reuse The Real Estate Development and Facilities Interior Design team manages a furniture reuse program to ensure products like desks and chairs are used to its full potential. Rather than disposing broken furniture, the pieces are evaluated and, whenever possible, reupholstered, repaired or rejuvenated for reuse. In 2023, this program repaired 1,134 items across the institution, resulting in $2M+ cost savings versus if those items were purchased new. Single Use Medical Devices ReprocessingEligible items such as surgical instrumentation, certain catheters, compression sleeves, pulse oximeter sensors, and others, are collected for reprocessing. This is a closed loop system where select single use medical devices are sanitized and inspected for reuse using an FDA regulated process. In 2023, 111,735 lbs. of devices were collected for reprocessing and diverted from landfills. Greening the ORAt the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, a team was launched to implement initiatives to embed sustainability best practices within the operating rooms. This team surveyed staff on waste training needs and conducted waste audits for various procedures. With this knowledge, new recycling infrastructure was placed within the PACU and ORs to divert pre incision waste from landfills, and continuous education on waste management practices was launched. At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, the “Go Green Team” is dedicated to strategizing and implementing initiatives that reduce overall waste and embed sustainability best practices within the operating rooms.Waste Anesthetic Gas Anesthetic gases are potent greenhouse gases by nature. To reduce their environmental footprint, the leadership in the Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care, and Pain Medicine minimizes its use of anesthetic gases with high global warming potentials. They removed desflurane, which has the highest global warming potential, from the formulary in 2021 (excluding affiliated locations). To further drive reductions, in 2024, the department began piloting the decommissioning of centralized nitrous oxide systems and transitioning to e cylinders on the anesthesia carts. Data shows that transitioning to this new practice will increase efficiency, minimize wasted nitrous oxide, and reduce associated greenhouse gas emissions. Transportation Air pollution emitted from transportation contributes to smog and poor air quality, which has negative impacts on the health and welfare of communities. Residents in urban cities are exposed to high levels of air pollution in the form of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) from combustion activity, including the burning of fuel in vehicles. Recent studies link ambient PM2.5 and ozone specifically caused by vehicle exhaust emissions to premature deaths. The impact of air pollution is particularly important to the communities we serve, especially for vulnerable populations with chronic upper respiratory illnesses such as asthma and COPD.At our specialty pharmacy center in Brooklyn, traditional Styrofoam coolers were replaced with coolers made from biodegradable cotton grown and manufactured in the U.S. This reduces the use of Styrofoam, which can take up to 500 years to degrade and pollutes the oceans.NYU Langone owns and operates a fleet of 38 ambulances, which respond to 98,000 calls and 65,000 patients each year to our hospitals. These vehicles run 24/7 and use gasoline and diesel to preserve life saving medications and equipment on board. This emits vehicle exhaust, affecting air quality in the communities we serve. Recognizing this impact, Emergency Services is upgrading their fleet with hyper efficient models that have lithium ion batteries. These batteries can power essential services on board, while reducing the need for engine idling and ultimately fine particulate emissions. With the support of $3M in federal and city grants, our fleet now includes two new hyper efficient ambulances and will introduce five more as existing vehicles reach the end of their lifetime. Our new hyper efficient ambulances are a welcomed addition to our fleet. They help provide lifesaving care to our patients all while significantly reducing fine particulate emissions to improve air quality in the communities we serve.Bret Rudy, MDExecutive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations for NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn1617In addition, we saw the commissioning and startup of two 4MW NYC based battery projects operated by our vendor partner, for which NYU Langone is the sole off taker of the utility credits generated. The projects help stabilize the grid during peak hours of demand while also providing cleaner power to the benefit of our communities. It also provides improved grid resiliency as more intermittent renewable energy sources are added to the power mix in New York over time. NYU Langone is proud to participate in this project and to demonstrate the important role that large end users, such as hospitals, can play in the move towards a low carbon future for all. GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONSUSGBC Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED)Science Building Platinum Kimmel Pavilion & Hassenfeld Children's Hospital Platinum Perlmutter Cancer Center—Sunset Park CertifiedAmbulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill GoldNYU Langone Ambulatory Care Garden City SilverUSGBC Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER)Manhattan Main Campus PlatinumWELL Building StandardOne Park Avenue, 4th & 5th FloorsSilverDesigning Better for the Future We are committed to designing greener buildings with a focus on lowering embodied carbon, using healthier materials with less chemicals, high quality indoor air, and reducing the energy, water and waste footprint once in operations. To ensure that projects take these goals into consideration in planning and design, NYU Langone has integrated them into our design guidelines, which includes a U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED certification requirement and reference to best practices from the WELL Building Standard, the CDC’s Fitwel standard, and the International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories. As of the end of 2023, NYU Langone has certified five projects comprising 1.58M square feet of space.We also want to ensure that our spaces promote human health and wellbeing and are designed for occupant comfort. Research shows significant cognitive and mood benefits for patients and staff from views of nature, daylighting, access to areas of respite, art, natural elements and biophilic design in buildings. NYU Langone incorporate these elements along with lighting and acoustical considerations for our new and retrofitted spaces. We also focus on maximizing green spaces including terraces, courtyards and green roofs that all use native trees and plants. Our most recently completed green roof at 540 First Avenue adds 3,207 square feet to the existing 20,000 square feet of green roof space on our Manhattan Main Campus.Physical Adaptation Most of our buildings still have a 20 50+ year expected useful life and they must be adapted to withstand a new climate reality. We use forward looking data to inform our approach and make changes throughout our infrastructure. We invest heavily in hardening our campuses to extreme weather events, especially floods. This includes raising critical infrastructure—utility, clinical care, research and IT—above expected flood levels, installing green roofs to slow down stormwater runoff, backup power systems, and onsite renewable, low carbon or combined heat and power generation. For new facilities, NYU Langone has been doing extensive upfront site hazard assessments and planning growth and development away from high risk areas like flood zones and incorporating adaptation measures from the outset.Supporting Energy Grid Resiliency As we pursue opportunities to reduce GHG emissions from our own facilities, it is equally as important for us to support efforts to decarbonize the energy grid for the benefit and resiliency of the communities we serve. Electrical grid reliability is essential to the operations of NYU Langone facilities and the avoidance of brownouts and blackouts in our neighborhoods. This is why NYU Langone has committed to reducing its loads during times of high grid demand, when the grid is also at its dirtiest, through participation in utility and State demand response programs. Our facilities teams have developed sophisticated procedures to reduce electricity use during these events and rely more on onsite generation to reduce demand on the grid. We also have invested heavily in upgrading our generators with advanced pollution controls. These efforts have led NYU Langone to become one of the biggest and most successful demand response participants in New York City, and has afforded us significant economic benefit from reductions in energy costs. It also has the benefit of keeping the facilities operations team well practiced in how to deal with an actual emergency event, were it to occur. OUR PILLARS:INCREASE RESILIENCYHospitals, as critical infrastructure, will bear the burden of the climate driven health impacts and face pressure to maintain access to care during critical threats. A focus on enterprise is paramount for NYU Langone Health and we continue to lead by example on this issue in healthcare.Over the past decade, NYU Langone has put into place comprehensive measures designed to ensure business continuity during extreme weather events and to prepare for the risks to our institution, employees and patients associated with climate change. Resiliency is incorporated into the way we design and construct our buildings, our business operations, our supply chain, and our long term strategies.The Joseph S. & Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill earned LEED Gold certification in 2023. This facility is designed with healing and sustainability in mind, and to use less water and less energy than a traditionally built facility. Materials like ceiling tiles and rebar were selected based on environmental criteria such as high recycled content, reduced chemical use, and local sourcing and manufacturing. This facility optimizes indoor and outdoor air quality by using airflow sensors and cleaner materials and by encouraging low carbon modes of transportation. Learn more about the building’s sustainable attributes here. 1819Members of the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s Floral Park ambulance crew assisting recovering patients after a snowstorm. While removing snow may seem like a small task, it can make the difference for patients to meet their basic needs and get to critical medical appointments. OUR PILLARS:CREATE HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTSNYU Langone Health seeks to create a vital and healing environment within our facilities and throughout the operational supply chain. Prioritizing better and healthier products and practices can minimize exposure to environmental pollutants that may impact human health.Building Healthy Interiors Care and consideration for patients are interwoven into the design of our spaces. Where possible, all furniture and furnishings are free of chemicals of concern including formaldehyde, flame retardants, per and polyfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and antimicrobials. In 2023, of our spend on furniture and furnishings in hospitals met these criteria. Supplier claims on the avoidance of these chemicals are also third party verified to ensure accuracy.Improving Air Quality Good indoor air quality minimizes your exposure to indoor allergens and pollutants. We maintain high levels of filtration to ensure superior indoor air quality for our patients and staff. Permanent air handling units use filters with a minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) of 13. All occupied spaces receive increased outdoor air by at least above the minimum rates required by industry standards. For all new construction projects and renovations, air pollutants like particulates, ozone, VOCs and odors, are flushed out prior to occupancy.Access to Local, Sustainable Foods Healthy eating plays an integral role in the healing process. NYU Langone Health is committed to providing the healthiest and freshest food options to patients, guests, and staff. We have a Universal Patient Menu at all five hospital campuses serving lean proteins like chicken, turkey and salmon. We have plant based options available at every meal period, and we use red meat sparingly. Within our cafeterias, we serve seasonal and plant based proteins like beans, lentils, and whole grains. The use of red meat is also limited by using it as a flavoring agent, rather than as the center of a dish. Our chefs highlight exciting new plant based recipes like crab cakes made with hearts of palm and other sustainable seafood options. It is also important to increase access to local, sustainable foods for staff, students, and patients. Within our hospitals, over of our food and beverage spend is on locally grown and produced foods and goods. We also host farmers’ markets and tables at our campuses. The Table Food Pantry of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone partner with Brooklyn Grange to bring local, sustainably grown produce to the communities we serve.To increase biodiversity and resiliency of our neighborhoods we host several rooftops bee hives as part of our urban honeybee program. Honeybees play a critical role in our food system through their role as global pollinators affecting a third of our food supply. Especially in cities where the natural habitat for bees is lacking, it is important for us to build these habitats and host colonies that will help maintain diverse flora and fauna. Since 2022, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island hosts a seasonal farmers market featuring over 10 local farms and businesses to support the communities we work and live in. We invite family run businesses, promote products that are organic and sustainably made, and feature vendors that have social missions like providing meaningful employment and vocational and educational opportunities for people with disabilities.We are incredibly proud that our market is for the community, by the community. We host local farms and businesses in NYC and Long Island. Now this year, we even launched our Feeding Forward initiative with the Nassau County Department of Health where staff can donate clothing, canned foods and children’s items to a local pantry in Hempstead.Joseph Greco, MDExecutive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island2021Leveraging Our VoiceWe want to use our trusted voice to influence policy and advocate for support for the healthcare industry to decarbonize. In October 2023, NYU Langone Health participated in meetings and learning sessions with congressional members and Administration staff and agencies. Organized by Health Care Without Harm, these sessions enable us to discuss how federal level engagement can support shared priorities on climate and healthcare. Led by our Food & Nutrition Services Department, NYU Langone submitted comments to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in support of the draft FDA, USDA and EPA Proposed National Strategy to Reduce U.S. Food Loss and Waste in February 2024. We shared our ongoing efforts to source local and sustainable foods and to reduce food waste in operations while recognizing the need for more government support for composting and recycling infrastructure.Climate change is a global issue, but the solutions must be rooted within our businesses and communities. It is crucial for NYU Langone Health to work alongside industry, NGOs and governmental agencies to accelerate climate progress. Impactful CollaborationsWe believe in the collaborative power to shift the standards of sustainability within healthcare. We are part of the U.S. Health Care Climate Council, whose members collectively promote resiliency in their communities and advocate for climate smart policies at the local, state, and federal level.We also serve on a technical expert panel for a new initiative launched by the American Hospital Association to address the impacts of climate in the communities that hospitals serve. Over the next two years, we will work alongside our peers to provide strategic guidance and subject matter expertise to ultimately empower communities and health systems to partner and collaborate when approaching environmental and climate challenges. We are integrating these learnings on climate and health into our own community health needs assessment process, which would be shared in our next community service plan in 2025. To support industry wide healthcare decarbonization, NYU Langone is a member of our group purchasing organization’s (GPO) Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Advisory Council. We help guide and provide insight for the GPO to implement best practices for more sustainable and low carbon supply chains. The adopted environmental practices would are available to any member hospital, expanding the reach of the group’s efforts.Building a Culture of SustainabilityIt is important to encourage industry participation by sharing our best practices and lessons learned in our pursuit of our sustainability goals. In 2023, NYU Langone participated and contributed to several public initiatives share our journey on climate resiliency. This included speaking at several national conferences, presenting in a webinar hosted by the HHS Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response, and collaborating with the HHS Office of Climate Change and Health Equity on a resiliency case study to be published with their updated U.S. Climate Resilience Toolkit.In April 2024, NYU Grossman School of Medicine completed its first Planetary Health Report Card, a metric based tool for evaluating and improving planetary health content in health professional schools. This student driven initiative allows the institution to benchmark its sustainability performance, and to investigate further integration of climate health topics into the school’s curriculum. In its debut, we ranked 19th out of 53 schools.The theme of our 2024 Health And… annual conference series hosted by the Department of Population Health was on Climate Action. This conference brought together policymakers, practitioners, and community members to explore cutting edge approaches to addressing the interface of climate change, healthcare, and health. OUR PILLARS:ADVOCATE FOR A SUSTAINABLE HEALTHCARE FUTUREIn 2024, NYU Langone celebrated Earth Month by giving back to our communities’ parks and waterways by hosting our first ever park beautification event. Staff and their families volunteered at local city park to plant native plants, remove weeds and spread wood chips.