terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms.” Treatment is delivered through Epic video visits, ensuring data security and integration with electronic health records. After receiving tDCS headsets targeting brain regions involved in their condition, patients work one-on-one with clinicians who are certified through our rigorous training process, which we also offer to labs nationwide that are studying this kind of approach. We always pair tDCS with another therapeutic activity—anything from cognitive, physical, or language exercises for recovery from a neurologic condition to mindfulness meditation for the treatment of depression. The available evidence robustly supports tDCS as a supplement to such activities, rather than as a substitute for them. Wouldn’t it be simpler to just have patients come into a treatment center? It might be simpler for the clinicians, but home-based care offers two big advantages to patients. First, it’s accessible to people who aren’t willing or able to commute to a clinic five days a week. Second, remote administration allows us to provide tDCS to folks who don’t live near a facility that offers it. We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms. These people are in such need of hope and help. We want to make sure they can get it. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Abraham R. Khan, MD, and Tanuja Damani, MD , experts provide highly specialized care for patients with complex conditions of the esophagus and persistent, challenging symptoms that require advanced diagnosis and treatment. The center is co-led by , who serves as surgical director, and , the medical director. Luis F. Angel, MD , medical director of lung transplantation, and Darya Rudym, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, the team has pioneered a multidisciplinary approach to perform timely pre-transplant diagnostic testing for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and, if needed, endoscopic or surgical intervention to resolve the reflux. They also perform post-transplant diagnostic testing and treatment as needed. Here, Dr. Damani and Dr. Khan discuss their unique approach to testing and provide a real case example to illustrate the process. Pulmonary Manifestations of Reflux What is the role of chronic pathologic GERD in lung transplant? Dr. Khan: Chronic gastroesophageal reflux and the potentially associated microaspiration can exacerbate many chronic pulmonary conditions including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis. Current guidelines suggest lifestyle modifications and acid-suppressive therapy as first-line treatment options, but these interventions are often insufficient for complex patients, such as those undergoing lung transplant. Additionally, the use of acid-suppressive therapy alters the pH of gastric contents without fully addressing the consequences of aspiration into the airway, which can be concerning for some transplant recipients, as we want to prevent reflux-driven damage to the lung allograft and reduce the risk of rejection post-transplant. “In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients.” Dr. Damani: Adding to what Dr. Khan said, severe reflux and regurgitation that cannot be medically managed often jeopardize the longevity of the new lungs due to reflux-induced microaspiration and resulting inflammation. In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients. Streamlined Testing and Treatment What is unique about your approach to pre- and post-transplant diagnostic testing for reflux? Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup. These awake diagnostic tests can give insights into why the patient has gastroesophageal reflux, and then allow us to understand if that reflux is indeed at risk of aspirating into the airway. Based on these findings and a detailed, personalized interpretation of testing results, we can determine which patients are at increased risk of reflux-driven damage to the new lungs and who may benefit from treatment, whether that be medical or surgical and conducted pre- or post-transplant. “Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup.” From a surgical perspective, our goal is to optimize the transition from diagnosis to surgery, and to determine which types of patients with reflux may benefit from intervention. We prefer to perform robotic anti-reflux surgery within 30 to 60 days following lung transplant to minimize any damage from reflux to the new lungs. Our approach is unique in that we truly function as a multidisciplinary team. We hold biweekly lung transplant meetings, which include pulmonologists, esophagologists, and surgeons, where we discuss patients that were previously identified. This allows us to expedite the GERD workup, both pre- and post-transplant. We have also developed secure chat groups on Epic and other platforms that allow for more seamless flows of information and expedited scheduling between the specialist teams for these patients. An Early Glimpse of Success Dr. Damani, do you have any recent examples of success using this approach? Yes. We had a male in his 70s who underwent bilateral lung transplant for interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. He had severe reflux and regurgitation that could not be medically controlled. Shortly after his transplant, he underwent an extensive GERD workup by our esophageal team and we elected to perform a robotic fundoplication. Overall, he did fantastic despite being on immunosuppression and was discharged two days after surgery on no pain medications. He has a great quality of life now, is off all his reflux meds, and is residing back home in Colombia. A Vision for the Future Since seeing early success using this approach, what are your future goals? Utilizing our current pre-lung transplant protocol, we hope to add to the sparse body of literature that pertains to the treatment of GERD in lung transplant patients. Our future aim is to identify the most appropriate medical and surgical therapies for GERD and esophageal motility disorders, both before and after transplant, that lead to successful long-term outcomes. “Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings.” Dr. Damani Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings through publications in peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations—this would greatly benefit the broader scientific and medical communities. Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Reading unstructured clinical notes, a large language model forecasts hospital readmission and other clinical factors. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The Tau NexGen trial is the first to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with a pair of novel drugs. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID NYU Langone researcher helps lead nationwide study testing tDCS in conjunction with brain training. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Denver for six days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of the more than 50 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. For a full list of presentations, please visit the AAN website Saturday, April 13 HeadTalks Benefits and Perils of Skiing: From Mental Well-being and Longevity to Ski Boot Compression Syndrome Presenter: Shae Datta, MD 2:15–3:00PM Sunday, April 14 Introducing the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) App for Rapid Visual Assessment in a Youth Ice Hockey League for Concussion P2 – Poster Session 2 Sara Hyman Mason M. Blacker, Christina Marini, Samarah Ahmed, Ruby Ross, Mitchell Jarmol, Scott N. Grossman, MD 11:45AM–12:45PM Infection Rates Associated with Anti-CD20 Treatment in Pediatric Onset Multiple Sclerosis S7 – Multiple Sclerosis: Special Populations and Non-MS CNS Neuroinflammatory Disease Lauren Seidman Nadine Azmy, Anna Sosa, Ugo Nwigwe, Kimberly A. O’Neill, MD 4:30–4:42PM Monday, April 15 Plenary Multi-institutional Study of Neurologic Outcomes in People with Multiple Sclerosis Who Are Treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors for Oncologic Indications PL4 – Contemporary Clinical Issues Hannah Kopinsky, MD, 10:15–10:25AM Controversies in Contact Sports: Would you let your kid play? SS5 – AAN Section Spotlight: Neurologic Overlap in Persistent Post-Concussion Syndrome, Sleep, and Headaches Scientific Platform Session Neuronal Microstructure and Glymphatic System Integrity in Migraine Patients Assessed with High-gradient Diffusion MRI S20 – Hot Topics in Headache Melanie Li, MD NYU Langone author: Katharina Eikermann-Haerter, MD 4:18–4:30PM Wednesday, April 17 Measuring Burnout and Practices of Appreciation Within a Neurology Department: Identifying Prevalence and Shaping Solutions S39 – Broadening the Scope of Medical Education in Neurology Daniel De Souza, 4:54–5:06PM Thursday, April 18 Binocular Visual Function Testing in an Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center (ADRC) Cohort: Low-contrast Letter Acuity and Rapid Automatized Naming (RAN) Tasks of MULES and SUN S40 – Neuro-ophthalmology/Neuro-otology Sara Hyman, Arjun V. Masurkar, MD, PhD 2:00–2:12PM Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Study finds no increased risk of hearing loss following stereotactic radiosurgery. Out of 318 patients with unilateral acoustic tumors, 198 had serviceable hearing and 116 had Class A hearing. Within each of the serviceable hearing and Class A hearing patient groups, half of the patients received radiosurgery while the other half were observed, and no difference in hearing loss was found between the different treatment approaches over the course of the study. For patients with intact hearing, the prospect of sterotactic radiosurgery to remove a vestibular schwannoma may trigger concerns. However, new findings suggest the intervention may be a conservative hearing preservation strategy. “There are patients who choose observation for their tumor in the hope of maintaining hearing for as long as possible, while the tumor may still grow, and others who choose gamma knife radiosurgery earlier with the aim of stopping tumor growth and maintaining hearing,” says , director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery. Dr. Kondziolka teamed up with neurosurgery chair , and neurosurgery resident Zane Schnurman, MD, to directly compare hearing outcomes between the two approaches. In the largest study on the topic to date, the team split groups of patients with unilateral vestibular schwannomas into observation or surgery cohorts. The researchers controlled for potential confounders, such as tumor volume, patient age, and sex. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period.” Among 198 patients with serviceable hearing at baseline, there were no significant differences in survival or median time to hearing loss between the cohorts. For 116 patients with Class A hearing at baseline, hearing loss occurred 27.2 and 29.2 months later in the surgery and observation cohorts, respectively. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period,” Dr. Kondziolka says. The study has earned the Lunsford & Leksell Radiosurgery Award at the 2022 American Association of Neurological Surgeons Annual Scientific Meeting. Douglas Kondziolka, MD, is the Gray Family Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of radiation oncology, and vice chair of clinical research in the Department of Neurosurgery. He is also director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery and specializes in metastatic brain tumors, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, primary brain tumors, brain vascular malformations, and other neurologic conditions. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 The outer retinal region known as band 2 has long been recognized as a useful biomarker for visual outcome in numerous retinal diseases. Yet no consensus exists on whether band 2 represents the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction or the IS ellipsoid mitochondria. Because aspects of retinal anatomy at the micrometer scale cannot be resolved by even the highest-resolution near-infrared optical coherence tomography (NIR OCT) systems, that controversy has yet to be settled. A study presented at the 2023 Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology annual meeting, however, offered evidence that could help tip the scales . Led by Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD , associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology, and postdoctoral fellow Pooja Chauhan, PhD, the researchers used a novel approach—visible light OCT, whose shorter central wavelengths can yield a much finer axial resolution. “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS.” “With this technology, we’re not just looking at layers of the retina, but at structures within layers,” says Dr. Srinivasan, whose lab is developing improvements in system design aimed at making the modality a practical complement to NIR OCT. Reflectivity Division Suggests a Myoid Origin In their study, the team performed in vivo visible light OCT to investigate the IS myoid and ellipsoid zones in mouse retinas, and then compared results with ex vivo histology and electron microscopy. They observed a subtle reflectivity division between these zones—a disparity with surprising characteristics. “When we zoomed in with resolution on the micron scale, we found that the myoid had higher reflectivity than the ellipsoid, where the mitochondria are,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. This result, he adds, challenges the current interpretation of band 2 being due mainly to mitochondria scattering within the ellipsoid. “It’s crucial that we learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS, suggesting that the latter hypothesis for band 2 needs to be reevaluated.” Shedding Light on Macular Degeneration Progression In previous research, Dr. Srinivasan and his team have discovered half a dozen new retinal features using visible light OCT, including bands in the photoreceptors, the retinal pigment epithelium, and Bruch’s membrane. Going forward, the group plans to investigate how these features change in normal aging and in age-related macular degeneration. “By examining these bands in minute detail, we hope to get a clearer understanding of macular degeneration and other retinal disorders,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. “It’s crucial that ophthalmologists learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” Ophthalmology, Radiology Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology. His research centers on the development of new light-based technologies for in vivo imaging and sensing of the eye and brain. Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations Conventional surgical approaches to repair a hole in the eardrum, or tympanic membrane perforation (TMP), involve using graft material to repair the opening, requiring general anesthesia and accompanied by significant costs that may be shared by patients. This creates potential barriers to treatment for certain groups including older patients, those with cardiopulmonary issues, and patients with a perforation in their only hearing ear. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial , researchers at NYU Langone Health are evaluating the efficacy of a minimally invasive, in-office repair that uses fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) to regenerate the eardrum in chronic, nonhealing TMPs. As part of the study, patients in the control group receive the same in-office approach, with FGF-2 replaced with sterile water. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative.” David R. Friedmann, MD “A randomized controlled trial like this is the gold standard, but it’s rare in surgery because of the complexity of the trial design and the ability to execute it in an unbiased way,” says neurotologist , principal investigator of the study. “Our goal is to produce gold-standard evidence regarding nonsurgical options to treat nonhealing tympanic membrane perforations.” “If the FGF-2 is successful, it will present a significant change in available treatments as well as the groups of patients we can help,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Tissue Regeneration Versus Traditional Tympanoplasty In conventional TMP repair, surgeons use cartilage or other tissue to repair the hole in the operating room. “Certainly with larger perforations of the eardrum, many believe this is the only option for successful closure,” Dr. Friedmann notes. “But the eardrum never looks quite the same and may not vibrate as well as a native eardrum.” In contrast, the approach under study is performed in an office setting. The growth factor under investigation is soaked into a gelatin sponge and secured in place with several drops of fibrin glue. Previous animal studies have demonstrated FGF’s ability to stimulate the division and differentiation of fibroblasts and promote angiogenesis, improve blood flow, and thereby improve closure rates by regenerating the fibrous layer of the eardrum. Images after successful closure often are indistinguishable in appearance and function from a normal eardrum, says Dr. Friedmann. Study Protocol In the ongoing trial, participants are randomized to receive FGF-2 or placebo treatment (the same in-office procedure without FGF-2). Subjects randomized to the placebo arm that do not show complete closure after this initial treatment may cross over to receive the active treatment. The primary outcome is complete eardrum closure as assessed by pre- and post-treatment photography. Secondary outcomes include time to closure, changes in pure-tone and speech discrimination scores, mobility of tympanic membrane as measured by tympanometry, and salvage rate of FGF-2 in patients who fail placebo treatment. A New Paradigm for Tympanic Membrane Perforation Treatment The in-office approach under study is less invasive than conventional surgical treatment. “Patients can avoid completing preoperative medical testing and labs, and barring unforeseen complications, walk out of the office minutes later, avoiding the need to take time off from work or recover from anesthesia. Additionally, it may be less expensive than conventional surgery,” says Dr. Friedmann. The trial is open for recruitment through 2023. Both providers and patients are welcome to inquire. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Learn more about the trial and patient eligibility. David R. Friedmann, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. His work focuses on the medical and surgical management of hearing issues and skull base disorders in both children and adults, including chronic ear disease, vestibular schwannoma, and cochlear implants. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 NYU Langone Health experts join colleagues from around the world at the 2024 Combined Otolaryngology Spring Meetings (COSM) in Chicago. COSM is the premier educational and technology forum for providing the subspecialties in Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery with an opportunity to improve and expand knowledge and skills to enhance the quality of patient care. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Of particular note is that , will be named the incoming president of the American Neurotology Society. For a full list of presentations at the COSM conference, please visit this website Thursday, May 16 Outcomes of Nasal Tip and Septal Extension Grafts with Autologous Versus Homologous Costal Cartilage Session : Oral : Manuela von Sneidern and : 8:30AM Long-Term Outcomes of In-Office KTP Laser Ablation of Vocal Fold Polyps in Performers : Scientific Session IV—Voice NYU Langone Presenters : Mackenzie O’Connor and : 1:06PM Friday, May 17 Fistulograms for the Management of Recurrent and Atypical Congenital Neck Anomalies : Poster Zahrah Taufique, MD , and Sukaina Hasnie, MD Saturday, May 18 Plastics and Craniofacial II: Practical Approaches. Pediatric Nasal Fractures, Cleft Lip and Palate, VPI : Expert Panel: Plastics and Craniofacial : 4:10–4:55PM Vascular Anomalies II: Practical Approaches. Lymphatic Malformations of the Tongue; Macrocystic Lymphatic Malformations of the Neck : Expert Panel: Vascular Anomalies Megan M. Gaffey, MD : 4:50–5:40PM Sunday, May 19 Michael E. Glassock Scientific Merit Award: Cochlear Implantation with Sporadic Inner Ear Schwannomas: An International, Multi-Institutional Study of 90 Patients : Future Directions in Cochlear Implantation : 10:22AM J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, Named as the Incoming President of the American Neurotology Society Introduction of President : 11:51AM Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis For a young male with severe spinal cord compression, advanced operative techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery discusses emerging research trends, including the rise of AI and big data. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data BRAIN Initiative award supports further development with a clinical trial planned. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the Culture of Neurosurgery conference in Philadelphia April 29 - May 2, 2022. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient A challenging, but successful multidisciplinary coordination enhances a patient's treatment and recovery. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans In metastatic brain cancer, new mutations can arise spontaneously or in response to interventions, confounding researchers’ ability to track how the cancer is spreading and evolving genetically, molecularly, and clinically. “Almost all tumors respond to treatment, but there’s a lot of variability in how they change,” says NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon . To better understand metastatic brain cancer and how it evolves, Dr. Kondziolka has teamed up with fellow neurosurgeon , to use artificial intelligence (AI) to create the world’s largest public database of brain tumor images. Their project, called NYUMets for “NYU metastases,” is creating a new suite of AI tools to help clinical researchers mine the images for relevant data, map disease progression in real time, and assess how individual cancers are responding to treatment. “For the first time, scientists anywhere will be able to apply computational tools developed from this database for clinical purposes,” Dr. Oermann says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” The collaborators focused on metastatic brain cancer for two main reasons: The disease is hard to treat with standard drugs, radiation techniques, and surgery, and researchers have an unmet need for sufficient data and tools to study it in its full complexity. Over the roughly two-year span that patients receive treatment, they undergo an average of nine scans. “We’re combining the imaging with the clinical outcome data, and then researchers can use it to build their own analytics and test them,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” A Powerful Image Repository The project, officially launched last fall, began a decade ago when Dr. Kondziolka started cataloging the brain scans, treatment plans, and clinical data from patients treated at NYU Langone’s . The repository has since grown to include more than 20,000 image sequences, drawn from 8,003 MRI studies of 1,429 patients. Layering on the AI tools will transform the image catalog into a powerful research tool for neurosurgeons and brain cancer researchers alike. “We do our best to assess how tumors grow or shrink over time,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “But we’re left to wonder: Did the tumor shrink by 17 percent or 75 percent? Did drug X make it shrink more than drug Y? Was radiation more effective than drug X? None of these things are very clear.” The project pairs his expertise in brain cancer and metastases with Dr. Oermann’s extensive background in AI to capture the cancer dynamics in a more comprehensive way. “I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that Dr. Kondziolka has been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower… research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” “Dr. Kondziolka has the largest registry of brain metastases in the world that he’s been painstakingly curating for years,” Dr. Oermann says. “As a computational scientist, I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that he’s been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower the AI and clinical research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” Promising Collaborations The sheer size of the NYUMets database may help researchers overcome the traditional limitations of evidence-based clinical trials, which can be constrained by a smaller size of participants or skewed composition of patient samples. So far, the highly collaborative database has harnessed the combined resources of NYU Langone’s Departments of ; the NYU Center for Data Science ; and the Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research . The project has received additional support from nVidia Inc. and Amazon Web Services. The added power of AI tools has allowed Dr. Kondziolka and Dr. Oermann to launch new collaborations as well, such as a joint project with research scientist and machine learning expert Katherine Link to develop an algorithm for detecting small brain tumors. “We need to fundamentally rethink how we approach cancer analytics if we are to better understand and ultimately treat it,” Dr. Oermann says. “Our goal is to encourage computational scientists to start thinking about cancer the way clinicians do—not as an independent entity, but as a disease someone lives with over time.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Our researchers and physicians will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is the Art and Science of Cancer Care: From Comfort to Cure. During this year’s meeting, Jeffrey S. Weber, MD, PhD will be presenting late-breaking data on a phase 2 trial exploring the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940 for people with high-risk, surgically removed melanoma. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Saturday, June 1 A phase 1/2 dose escalation and expansion study of sonodynamic therapy with SONALA-001 in combination with Exablate 4000 Type 2.0 MR-guided focused ultrasound in patients with progressive or recurrent glioblastoma (rGBM) Central Nervous System Tumors 9:00AM–12:00PM EVEREST-2: A seamless phase 1/2 study of A2B694, a mesothelin (MSLN) logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy, in patients with solid tumors that show MSLN expression and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02 loss of heterozygosity (LOH) Developmental Therapeutics–Immunotherapy Salman R. Punekar, MD An open-label, phase 1, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and preliminary anti-tumor activity of NT‑112 in human leukocyte antigen-C*08:02–positive adult patients with unresectable, advanced, and/or metastatic solid tumors that are positive for the KRAS G12D mutation Interleukin-6 receptor blockade with tocilizumab to reduce immune-related toxicity with ipilimumab and nivolumab in metastatic melanoma Melanoma/Skin Cancers Judith D. Goldberg, ScD Janice Mehnert, MD , Xiaochun Li, Benjamin Levinson 1:30–4:30PM INTerpath-001: Pembrolizumab with V940 (mRNA-4157) versus pembrolizumab with placebo for adjuvant treatment of high-risk stage II-IV melanoma Monday, June 3 Late-Breaking Data Individualized neoantigen therapy mRNA-4157 (V940) plus pembrolizumab in resected melanoma: 3-year update from the mRNA-4157-P201 (KEYNOTE-942) trial A follow-up presentation to the recently published clinical trial describing the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940. This three-year update shows a higher percentage of durable and meaningful long-term recurrence-free survival or survival without distant spread of cancer in patients who received both treatments (74.8%) compared to those who received only pembrolizumab (55.6%). 10:15–10:21AM Real-world treatment patterns and outcomes by mismatch repair/microsatellite instability (MMR/MSI) status in patients (pts) with advanced endometrial cancer (aEC), 2018-2023 Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth Under high-risk conditions, a large surgical team executes a complex procedure for congenital high-airway obstruction syndrome. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need With careful planning and electrode selection, revisions offer renewed hearing for patients with device failure. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ NYU Langone Health experts joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, September 10-14. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs Current costs of intraocular anti-VEGF medications versus projected costs after FDA approval of a bevacizumab biosimilar. ADAPTED FROM: 2023 Apr 26;S0161-6420(23)00295-6. Anti-VEGF drugs to treat retinal disease represent a major cost for the healthcare system and for patients. Several such medications are currently approved by the FDA for intraocular use, including aflibercept, ranibizumab and the biosimilars ranibizumab-nuna and ranibizumab-eqm. In addition, a cancer drug, bevacizumab, is widely used off-label and for a relatively low cost due to the ability to repackage one oncologic dose vial into multiple doses for intraocular use. However, an investigational bevacizumab biosimilar, now awaiting FDA approval, might challenge the use of off-label bevacizumab as an economical alternative. While biosimilars generally help drive costs down, a study led by NYU Langone Health researchers suggests that this drug—bevacizumab-vikg—could substantially increase the cost burden of intravitreal anti-VEGF agents “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab, the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar could raise costs dramatically.” Ravi Parikh, MD, MPH That danger arises, the team notes, because the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act prohibits the compounding of a copy of an approved medication. If the FDA approves a bevacizumab biosimilar for intraocular use, the repackaging of bevacizumab cancer drugs for such purposes could be curtailed. Meanwhile, the biosimilar could command a higher price. To determine the impact of such a scenario, the researchers calculated Medicare Part B and patient payments (directly or via secondary insurance) for the most commonly used medications for which data is available. Aflibercept was the most expensive option, at a cost per dose of about $1,451 to Medicare and $361 to patients. Repackaged bevacizumab was least expensive, at $70 to Medicare and $18 to patients. If an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar was priced at $500, the team found, costs to Medicare would increase by 15.2 percent per year—from $3.01 billion to $3.47 billion. Patient responsibility would increase from $768 million to $884 million. If the new biosimilar was priced at $900, Medicare costs would rise to $3.91 billion, an increase of 29.8 percent. Patient responsibility would soar to $997 million. “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab,” says senior author , director of healthcare delivery research for NYU Langone’s Department of Ophthalmology, “the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar that is approved for intraocular use could raise costs dramatically, and also likely limit access to an anti-VEGF drug that has been demonstrated to be safe and effective for nearly 20 years.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, Apellis Pharmaceuticals, GLC Consultants, and Health and Wellness Partners. Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH, is director of healthcare delivery research and a clinical associate professor of ophthalmology. His research interests center on improving therapeutic options for patients with ophthalmic disorders. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) can result in varying levels of vision compromise ranging from minor to severe vision loss. While there are excellent treatments for CRVO and visual recovery can improve, the ability to predict the extent of improvement is limited. New findings from investigators at NYU Langone Health indicate a machine learning algorithm could predict visual and anatomic outcomes in patients with macular edema following CRVO (MEfCRVO) being treated with intravitreal aflibercept injection . Additionally, the algorithm predicts dosing frequency with high accuracy. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician,” says vitreoretinal surgeon Yasha S. Modi, MD , who was part of the team that helped to create the model. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician.” While more research is needed before the tool can be introduced in the clinic, the new findings validate the predictive model and serve as a proof of concept for second- and third-generation models. “With central retinal vein occlusion, there are hugely disparate outcomes. The best predictor of long-term vision is the visual acuity you present with,” Dr. Modi