the lead extraction procedure The Heart Rhythm Center has an international reputation as a training center and quality care model for medical professionals and caregivers. Our main Heart Rhythm Center location is at 530 First Avenue on the sixth floor in Manhattan, and procedures are performed at Additional members of our electrophysiology team are available at the following locations, where they also provide consultation, diagnosis, and treatment for heart rhythm disorders: Heart Rhythm Center—Brooklyn , located at Heart Rhythm Center—Long Island Our doctors specialize in catheter ablation, pacemaker implantation, internal cardiac defibrillator implantation, cardiac device management, lead extraction, tilt testing for fainting spells, genetic testing, and more. Alexander Kushnir We provide advanced treatment for people with inherited cardiac conditions. We provide ongoing care for people with heart conditions present from birth. We evaluate and treat people with any stage and all types of heart failure. 212-263-3626 Experts at the Pancreas Transplant Program, a part of the , provide specialized care for people who need a pancreas or a kidney–pancreas transplant, including some people with diabetes and those who have type 1 diabetes and Types of Transplant We offer simultaneous kidney–pancreas transplant, pancreas after kidney transplant, and pancreas transplant alone. When a Pancreas Transplant Is Needed Not everyone who has diabetes needs a pancreas transplant. Here are some of those who may benefit: people with type 1 diabetes who need a or who have already received a kidney transplant people with type 1 diabetes who also experience hypoglycemic unawareness—very low blood sugar levels with no physical symptoms until they lose consciousness people with who have a low total daily insulin requirement Benefits of a Pancreas Transplant A successful pancreas transplant leaves patients insulin independent and eliminates the need to follow diabetic dietary restrictions or regularly check blood sugars. Some pancreas transplant recipients experience fewer, less-severe episodes of diabetes symptoms, such as numbness in their feet and hands. Support the Pancreas Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to our lifesaving pancreas transplant program. Pancreas Transplants We Offer Doctors at the NYU Langone Transplant Institute offer three options for pancreas transplant. Your transplant team helps you to decide which is the best for you. Simultaneous Kidney–Pancreas Transplant In a simultaneous kidney–pancreas transplant, often referred to as an SPK, a person receives a kidney and a pancreas transplant at the same time, with organs from a deceased donor. Pancreas After Kidney Transplant In a pancreas after kidney transplant, or PAK, a person receives a kidney transplant from a living donor and then, after several months of recovery, has a second surgery to receive a pancreas transplant from a deceased donor. Pancreas Transplant Alone People who have type 1 diabetes without kidney disease who experience life-threatening episodes of hypoglycemic unawareness may be candidates for a pancreas transplant alone, or PTA. Pancreas Transplant Evaluation You may be referred to the Transplant Institute by your endocrinologist or nephrologist, or you may contact us yourself. During your first visit, our team evaluates you to determine whether a pancreas or kidney–pancreas transplant is appropriate. During this medical visit, you meet with several members of the transplant team, including a nephrologist, social worker, nutritionist, and nurse coordinator. These experts guide you through the evaluation. You also meet the transplant surgeon, who explains the operation in detail. You complete blood and urine tests, a chest X-ray, a CT scan of your abdomen and pelvis, and specialized heart testing. Additionally, we require all transplant candidates to have age-appropriate cancer screenings, such as colonoscopy If our experts decide that you are a good candidate for a pancreas or kidney–pancreas transplant, we help you through the process. For people with end-stage kidney disease who have a potential living kidney donor, we facilitate evaluation of your donor and perform the living donor kidney transplant. You are also placed on the waiting list for a pancreas transplant. Once you recover from surgery, you are able to have a pancreas transplant from a deceased donor when an organ becomes available. If you do not have a kidney from a living donor, we add you to the kidney and pancreas transplant waitlist until a matching kidney and pancreas from the same deceased donor are available. In the months following a pancreas transplant, you have regular checkups with experts at the Transplant Institute. Over time, we transition your care back to your nephrologist or primary care physician but remain a resource for you and your physician to ensure that you remain in good health. We offer pancreas transplant evaluations along with pre- and post-transplant outpatient care in Manhattan, in Brooklyn, and on Long Island at and NYU Langone Surgical Associates—1300 Franklin Avenue. We are leaders in the field of pancreas transplantation. Pancreas Transplant Medical Director Hepatobiliary & Pancreatic Surgery Services Our transplant doctors may work with specialists in pancreatic surgery services. Pancreatic Disease Program Specialists in the Pancreatic Disease Program are leaders in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the pancreas. We have doctors located in Manhattan and on Long Island. To reach our Manhattan team, call 855-698-5823 . To reach our Long Island team, call 516-663-1830 About the Left Ventricular Assist Device Who Can Benefit from a Left Ventricular Assist Device LVAD Services for Referring Physicians At NYU Langone’s LVAD Program, we offer leading edge, lifesaving mechanical circulatory support for two major conditions: acute cardiogenic shock, in which the heart muscle abruptly stops working, and chronic advanced , in which the heart muscle is permanently weakened and doesn’t pump blood and oxygen throughout the body efficiently. After someone experiences acute cardiogenic shock, an LVAD, also known as a left ventricular assist device, helps circulate blood throughout the body. In chronic heart failure, an LVAD can help extend—and improve—the lives of some people, whether you are awaiting a or you are not a candidate for one. This treatment has been shown to increase patient survival, sometimes by more than five years. Through the LVAD Program, experts at offer devices approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treating advanced heart failure. Our LVAD Program has earned advanced certification from The Joint Commission, in recognition of our commitment to safety and protocols in support of positive patient outcomes. LVAD procedures take place at the in Manhattan and in Mineola. Our team of heart failure cardiologists and cardiac surgeons, nurse practitioners, , and other specialists work together to provide personalized care before, during, and after surgery to place an LVAD. Our experts are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, through our dedicated hotline, and we monitor your progress daily to ensure that you are safely taking medications and making lifestyle changes designed to improve your overall health. NYU Langone’s left ventricular assist device experts are dedicated to treating people with heart failure. Cardiologists and surgeons at our Heart Failure Advanced Care Center specialize exclusively in diagnosing and treating heart failure. Our cardiac team helps people receiving LVAD therapy to transition to a heart transplant when appropriate. Heart Transplant Program Enhances Care for Heart Failure Transcatheter Expertise We are among the highest-volume centers for MitraClip® mitral valve repair and transcatheter aortic valve replacement. Excellence in Robotic Surgery Our doctors have performed more than 1,000 robotic mitral valve repair procedures since 2011. The cardiac team at NYU Langone’s Heart Valve Center is among the most experienced and sought-out in the country for the treatment of people with heart valve disease. We have more than 40 years of experience in heart valve repair and replacement, and are innovators in the care of people with , and tricuspid valve disease. VIDEO: Experts at the Heart Valve Center use innovative treatments and minimally invasive procedures to care for people who have mitral valve conditions. Through our , we specialize in minimally invasive and robotic surgical techniques, and complex procedures that require extensive surgical skill and expertise. Our doctors have performed more than 4,000 mitral valve repair procedures—among the most of any center in the world. , we are pioneers in nonsurgical procedures that use only a small incision in the groin to access the aortic, mitral, or tricuspid valve. Our doctors have performed more than 6,000 transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures , and we are one of the highest-volume centers for mitral valve repair using MitraClip®. Heart Valve Repair and Replacement Expertise Our expertise in all heart valve surgical techniques allows us to give every person the treatment best suited to their condition. Our goal is to provide the most effective, long-term outcome that helps you return to the life you enjoy. “I feel good knowing that the procedure is done and I can live with less shortness of breath.” John, 78 Read Our Heart Valve Center Patient Stories Our surgeons were the first in the country to perform several procedures, including minimally invasive port access mitral valve repair and nonsurgical transcatheter mitral valve replacement. To continue the advancement of heart valve technologies and procedures, we are actively involved in research and offer our patients the opportunity to participate in more than a dozen Our team of doctors specializes in evaluating and treating patients with heart valve disease and has pioneered new treatment options that advance the care of patients. Robotic Mitral Valve Program Director Peter J. Neuburger Cardiac Anesthesiologist Related Heart Programs Our cardiologists use echocardiography to diagnose and manage conditions that affect the way blood moves through your heart. Learn More About Noninvasive Cardiac Imaging and Testing Our doctors use catheter-based techniques to treat coronary artery disease, valvular disease, and peripheral arterial disease. Learn More About the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Whether you’re an elite runner or a novice, NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center can help you improve your performance while preventing injury. We assess all aspects of your running, including training days and programming, nutrition, running mechanics, strength and flexibility, footwear, shoe orthotic inserts, and injury susceptibility. Our experts assess your running technique and offer recommendations to improve your performance and help prevent injury. We offer several running programs, including The Running Lab at NYU Langone, Runner’s Evaluation, and Marathon Prep Plan health and fitness testing The Running Lab at NYU Langone The Running Lab at NYU Langone program is based on the latest research on endurance running. Our experienced team of physical therapists, exercise physiologists, and registered dietitians provides specific recommendations designed to help you achieve your running goals. During your assessment, you receive the following one-on-one evaluations. Running Analysis We record a high definition video of your running, viewed from the front, back, and sides, and then use motion analysis software to determine how your running mechanics affect your performance. Foot and Ankle Assessment We use a series of tests and measurements to identify factors that may improve your running efficiency. Recommendations are given on the appropriate running shoe and, if necessary, orthotic inserts. Strength and Flexibility Assessment You complete a series of tests and measures designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can increase your risk for injury. Recommendations for improvement are provided. Training Program Review You meet with an exercise physiologist to review your current training routine and develop strategies to improve your performance, decrease the risk of injury, and maintain your running routine for years to come. Nutrition Evaluation We address all of your nutritional needs, including in-season and off-season guidance, information on nutritional supplements, optimal nutrient timing, and weight loss considerations, as well as what to eat before, during, and after a race. Group Review of Running Video After your evaluation is complete, you meet with our clinicians to review the running videos and receive initial recommendations. Personalized Final Report Each participant receives an individualized report that includes a detailed summary and analysis of results and customized recommendations. The report includes the following: detailed assessments from all evaluations training and conditioning program recommendations to address areas of improvement cues for real-time training an internet link to your running video guidance on nutrition, footwear, and orthotic inserts You may choose to come back for reevaluations or follow-up appointments. You meet with an exercise physiologist to review your progress and fine-tune your program of exercises and real-time running cues. Nutritional follow-up with our registered dietitians are also available. To register, please email Duration: 180 minutes Runner’s Evaluation The Runner’s Evaluation is designed for runners of all ages and abilities to help improve performance and prevent injury. During your assessment, you receive a one-on-one evaluation with an exercise physiologist that includes the following. We record a high definition video of your running and use motion analysis software to determine how your mechanics affect performance. You complete a Functional Movement Screen ™ that includes a series of tests and measurements designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can increase your risk of injury. Based on the results of this assessment, recommendations for improvement are provided. Your current training routine is reviewed by an exercise physiologist, who develops strategies to help you maintain your running routine for years to come. detailed assessments from the running analysis and Functional Movement Screen , including still shots of your running video displaying key areas of focus for improvement an online link to your running video running cues for real-time training exercise program recommendations to address areas for improvement Additional Running Programs In addition to The Running Lab and Runner's Evaluation, we offer the following programs. Strength and Conditioning Class for Runners This tailored cross training program is designed for runners of all levels. Experts at The Running Lab take runners through a research-based exercise program to target key muscles and joints proven to improve running mechanics and economy. This class incorporates strengthening exercises, conditioning drills, and running form instruction. To register, please email AlterG Anti-Gravity Treadmill The AlterG Anti-Gravity Treadmill incorporates the same technology the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) uses to train its astronauts. The technology reduces impact on the legs and knees following injuries or during training. allows injured athletes to use their normal running form during their recovery and seamlessly transition back to full participation without the need to introduce water or other forms of cross training to preserve fitness. The AlterG can also be used to improve running performance by designing super maximal speeds with decreased risk of injury from impact. To register, please email Duration: 30-minute and 60-minute sessions available Injuries We Treat Nonsurgical Treatment Sports Medicine Center Patient Stories When a hockey player is injured, he or she often has one goal in mind: getting back to the game as quickly as possible. At NYU Langone’s Hockey Center, our medical experts are prepared to treat all injuries that happens on the ice. Hockey is a contact sport, and injuries happen. You may sprain, strain, or tear a joint or ligament, and need orthopedic surgical care. You may experience a deep cut to the face, and need a plastic surgeon to minimize scarring, or an ophthalmologist or maxillofacial surgeon to treat an eye injury. Or maybe you suffered a concussion , and you need an expert assessment from NYU Langone’s to determine when it is safe to return to play. Our team of experts, many of whom have years of experience caring for professional hockey players, can address all of these medical needs and more. VIDEO: Madison Packer, a forward for the Metropolitan Riveters of the National Women's Hockey League, discusses her injury and her triumphant return to the ice. At the Hockey Center, our holistic approach begins with a preseason evaluation to help prevent injury. If an injury occurs, we look at the player, his or her goals, and the extent of an injury. A teen playing on a youth league with dreams of playing professionally may need a different treatment plan than an older person who plays on an adult league. There’s nuance to every injury, and subtleties to each treatment. When the season ends, we can recommend a fitness routine to help keep your skills sharp and body ready. Whether you or your child play on a youth league, at the college level, recreationally, or professionally, our experts develop a treatment plan that reflects your specific goals. Rehabilitation and Sports Performance Training After treatment for an initial injury, your physician might recommend physical rehabilitation to help your recovery. This can include working with physical or occupational therapists from NYU Langone’s Services are also available at our . By combining research with the most advanced testing equipment, our exercise physiologists and sports psychologists provide the training and assistance that can help you improve your game and achieve your potential. The Hockey Center is led by Dr. Andrew Feldman Dr. Laith Jazrawi . Dr. Feldman was team physician for the New York Rangers for 14 years. Dr. Jazrawi is chief of sports medicine at NYU Langone. In addition, the Hockey Center is supported by the following physicians: Michael J. Alaia, MD Dennis A. Cardone, DO Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, MD Specialists in the following areas also provide care to our patients: dentistry, emergency medicine, neurology, neurosurgery, ophthalmology, oral maxillofacial surgery, otolaryngology, pediatric orthopedics, plastic surgery, psychiatry, radiology, and rehabilitation medicine. If you have experienced a hockey-related injury or are interested in a second opinion, please call 877-769-8632 Golfers who want to improve their game or prevent injury are invited to participate in the Golf Lab, part of NYU Langone’s Sports Performance Center. The Golf Lab team , which includes physical therapists, occupational therapists, exercise physiologists, and golf professionals, uses the latest scientific research to develop personalized recommendations that improve ball control, performance, and consistency on the course. We offer group and one-on-one golf evaluations that consist of three stations at which you work with a Golf Lab team member. The evaluations include stability and mobility, video golf swing analysis, and review of golf video. Stability and Mobility Evaluation Your Golf Lab experience starts with a series of golf-specific tests and measures. These are designed to identify asymmetries and imbalances that can affect your performance and consistency and increase your risk for injury. We assess your body’s stability and mobility, including at the ankle, hip, pelvis, thoracic spine, and shoulder. We also evaluate how your game has been affected by injuries such as , groin strain, knee pain rotator cuff tear Video Golf Swing Analysis Golf Lab specialists use video analysis software to identify movement sequencing and movement patterns that contribute to ball-flight direction, velocity performance, and injury prevention. Review of Golf Video Upon completion of the evaluation, we discuss your results and identify your mobility, stability, and swing characteristics. This enables us to provide you with exercises and drills that target your specific areas for improvement. After your session, you receive a personalized final report that includes the following: detailed assessments from all stations exercises that improve golf-specific movements videos of golf drills you can practice on your own online access to your evaluation video Golf Strength and Conditioning Class This tailored golf assessment is designed for golfers who want to improve their performance or prevent injury. Golf Lab experts take golfers through a research-based exercise program that targets key muscles and joints proven to improve swing mechanics. This class incorporates mobility, stability, and power exercises so golfers can improve timing, club–head velocity, and force transfer. To register for this weekly class, please email Exercise physiologist Heather Milton conducts an evaluation at the Golf Lab. For more information on golf services or to schedule a one-on-one evaluation, please call 646-501-7109 We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Westchester County, and on Long Island. Platelet-Rich Plasma Injections At NYU Langone’s Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine, we offer the most advanced evidence-based biologics and other innovative therapies as part of a comprehensive treatment plan for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. Biologics are nonsurgical therapies often derived from blood, proteins, and other substances that occur naturally in the body. Biologic therapies stimulate the body to heal, regrow tissue, and reduce inflammation. This may lead to less pain, accelerated healing, and a quicker return to activities you enjoy. NYU Langone’s excellence in regenerative orthopedic medicine stems from our early and ongoing research investigating the safest and most effective treatments for patients. Our experts work to exceed rigorous quality and safety standards set by the state and federal government. Backed by the technology, expertise, and resources of a world-class academic medical center, our team offers the most effective regenerative therapies as part of a total treatment plan for many musculoskeletal conditions, including the following: Achilles tendon injury ankle cartilage lesions bursitis and tendinitis elbow sprains and strains , including tennis and golfer’s elbow hip labral tears knee articular cartilage injuries meniscus tears osteoarthritis of the ankle, hip shoulder labral tears tendinopathies of the ankle, including those of the posterior tibial tendon and the peroneal tendon rotator cuff tears Platelet-rich plasma, stem cells, and hyaluronic acid—used separately or with other treatments—are the most common biologics we use in orthopedic care. We also offer innovative nonbiologic therapies to help speed healing, repair damaged tissues, and improve recovery after surgery. We take a personalized approach to every patient we treat, tailoring treatments to their specific condition. Platelet-Rich Plasma , or PRP, is a solution containing concentrated amounts of platelets, the cell fragments in blood that cause clotting. Platelets also stimulate healing by releasing substances called growth factors. When platelet-rich plasma is injected directly into tissue or an injured joint, it may speed healing. Stem Cells are a special type of cell that can, under the right conditions, develop into other types of cell in the body, such as muscle, bone, or cartilage. When a serum containing concentrated amounts of stems cells is injected into diseased or damaged tissue, it reduces inflammation and may encourage tissue to heal and regrow. Hyaluronic Acid Healthy joints contain a thick liquid called synovial fluid, which keeps them lubricated and moving freely without pain. Hyaluronic acid is an important component of synovial fluid, giving it a thick consistency. When hyaluronic acid breaks down, which is a normal part of aging, the synovial fluid thins and is less able to effectively lubricate the joints. Our experts use a hyaluronic acid solution, injecting it directly into the joint, to treat osteoarthritis of the ankle, knee, hip, and shoulder. The hyaluronic acid rethickens the synovial fluid and improves the joint’s gliding motion, usually for several months. Collagen Patches For some conditions that require surgery—such as a rotator cuff tear or Achilles tendon injury—our experts may place a small patch of collagen-based material on the damaged tissue during surgery. Collagen is a plentiful protein in the body and a major component of ligaments, tendons, and muscles. Because your body uses collagen to repair these tissues, the use of a collagen patch may encourage healing and lessen pain after surgery. Shock Wave Therapy Our experts also use shock wave therapy, a noninvasive and nonbiologic treatment that focuses high-energy sound waves on damaged tissue, which in turn speeds healing. Shock wave therapy is used for conditions such as shoulder labral tears, stress fractures in the foot, and tendon problems in the ankle. Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Research Our experts conduct research studies investigating innovative regenerative medicine therapies. These emerging treatments may be available to you through participation in a clinical trial. Your doctor may discuss these opportunities with you. Doctors at the Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine work with you to establish a comprehensive treatment plan that includes regenerative therapies for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. Natasha N. Desai Julia L. Iafrate Maria Janakos John G. Kennedy 18 Stem Cells & Other Injectables: Solutions or Scams? Achilles Tendon Tears: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Podcast View All Locations (11) 646-501-7223 We’re ranked among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics and rehabilitation by Our orthopedic surgeons perform more than 4,000 procedures each year to treat all types of musculoskeletal conditions. Experts in Nonsurgical Options Our sports medicine physicians specialize in the latest therapies that can replace or delay the need for surgery. When an injury or pain keeps you from the activities you love, doctors at the Sports Medicine Center—part of at NYU Langone—are here to help you get back to your daily routine. We provide care for acute and chronic sports-related and overuse injuries at many convenient locations throughout the New York City area. Rock Climber Back on Her Feet After Traumatic Injuries Secrets of Longevity: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Hip Pain in Athletes ‘The Bone Whisperers’ VIDEO: Dr. Laith Jazrawi, Dr. Michael Alaia, Dr. Kirk Campbell, Dr. Eric Strauss, and Dr. Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas offer an overview on sports medicine, common injuries, and different treatments. Care for Sports Injuries and Chronic Orthopedic Conditions We are one of the highest-volume sports medicine centers in the country. Our experts include orthopedic surgeons and primary care sports medicine doctors who diagnose and treat more than 35,000 people each year for injuries affecting every major joint, including the shoulder, knee, elbow, hip, and ankle. They partner with rehabilitation and sports performance experts to create a comprehensive treatment plan customized to fit your goals. We provide comprehensive care to athletes and active people to improve their health and reach peak performance. “Since my knee surgery, I’ve climbed 4,000-foot peaks and walked down the aisle at my wedding in 4-inch heels—things I never dreamed of being able to do before.” Kate, Age 30 Read All Sports Medicine Patient Stories We provide care for acute injuries such as sprains, fractures, torn ligaments, and ruptured tendons, as well as chronic conditions that may result from repetitive strain or degenerative disease, including and osteoarthritis. Experts in Surgical and Nonsurgical Treatment Our doctors perform more than 4,000 surgeries each year to treat all types of musculoskeletal conditions. Types of surgery for sports medicine injuries and other orthopedic conditions include cartilage repair and restoration, as well as minimally invasive procedures such as arthroscopic surgery. Our doctors also understand that surgery is not always the answer. They often recommend nonsurgical treatments to address injuries such as ankle instability tennis elbow , golfer’s elbow, tendinitis, rotator cuff injuries shoulder dislocations . We offer the most advanced treatment options—including shock wave therapy and injectable orthobiologic treatments—all as outpatient care, so you can go home the same day and recover where you feel most comfortable. Orthobiologic treatments involve using an intensified concentration of substances that are naturally found in the body, such as stem cells or platelets, to help musculoskeletal injuries heal quicker. We also offer physical therapy programs. Laura Denoble and Dr. David Pereia are part of a larger Sports Medicine Center team whose focus is providing medical and surgical care for a wide range of injuries and conditions. We take equal pride in helping everyone from professional athletes to everyday New Yorkers recover from injury and meet the challenges of their busy lives. We have special expertise in treating hockey players and competitive figure skaters, and we also treat elite dancers in the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater in collaboration with NYU Langone’s Specialized Sports Medicine Care for Women Sports medicine experts at NYU Langone’s specialize in helping athletic and active women heal from injury. Informed by the latest scientific research, we tailor our treatments specifically for women to provide you with high-quality, personalized care and prevent future injuries from happening. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors care for people with sports medicine injuries, as well as complex bone and joint conditions. Berkcan Akpinar Lawrence G. Chang Calogero Gambino Alexander Golant Willy Gonzalez Stuart J. Hershon Gregory R. Holt Jack Italiano Daniel J. Kaplan James M. Kipnis Ariana Lott View All 39 Doctors & 39 Related Programs and Resources Sports Medicine Patient Guide to Surgery Prepare for sports medicine surgery and learn about what to expect during your recovery. Sports Medicine Surgery e-Guide Receive information tailored to your specific surgery date and your progress through the recovery process. We help both elite athletes and fitness novices achieve their health and fitness goals by creating personalized training and conditioning programs. Our surgeons perform thousands of surgeries a year, from the common to the complex. We provide world-class treatment for conditions involving bones, muscles, and joints. Our Locations (11) 339 East 38th Street, New York, NY, 10016 212-263-1515 212-263-1171 212-598-6000 240 East 18th Street, New York, NY, 10003 NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Lake Success 1999 Marcus Avenue, Suite 202, New Hyde Park, NY, 11042 516-467-8600 If you are a physician who would like to refer a patient, please Meniscus Tears: Is Surgery Necessary? ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Nutrition & Surgical Recovery: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Hip Replacements: ‘The Bone Whisperers,’ Episode 9 Kids & Scoliosis: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Wrist Cysts & Bumps: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Rotator Cuff Injuries & Treatments: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ Schedule with a Specialist We see patients in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and on Long Island. 855-698-2220 Concussion Center Rehabilitation Services Concussion Center Care Team At NYU Langone’s Concussion Center, we know that this form of traumatic brain injury may lead to long-term consequences if not treated properly. Concussions can happen anytime: when a teen takes a tough hit during a football game, an older adult falls and hits his or her head, or a driver gets whiplash during a car accident. If you’ve experienced a , getting the right treatment can help you recover quickly and more completely. Call Our Concussion Line To schedule a consultation or to learn more about care at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center, please call Our experts offer superior diagnosis and treatment, as well as rehabilitation services to help get you back to doing what you love. VIDEO: Learn more about concussions and the services offered by experts at NYU Langone’s Concussion Center. Expert Diagnosis and Treatment care team at our Concussion Center guides you through every step of the treatment process. Your journey may start with our emergency room experts or during your initial meeting with our medical leaders in neurology, physical medicine and rehabilitation (physiatry), or sports medicine, who are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and rehabilitation. We conduct a thorough examination to check your balance, coordination, and vision. We also perform cognitive testing to determine whether your memory, concentration, or language skills have been affected. Depending on the severity of the injury, our doctors may recommend imaging tests, such as an MRI or CT scan, the results of which are thoroughly reviewed by our neuroradiologists. Following this medical assessment, we develop a treatment plan that may include connecting you with the specialists who can best help with your recovery. As part of at NYU Langone, we are committed to delivering the most advanced medical treatment to our patients while also providing the support you need to achieve a full recovery. If you’ve experienced a concussion, getting the right treatment can help you recover quickly and more completely. To schedule a consultation or to learn more about our care, please call us at or email us at nyuconcussion@nyulangone.org . Our concussion experts also offer video visits for people who prefer to receive care in the privacy and comfort of their own home. Coordination of Your Concussion Care Concussion Care Find out more about how our experts diagnose and treat people with concussions. Learn More About Our Treatment Approach To help coordinate your care, we have a clinical coordinator and program manager dedicated to answering your questions and guiding your clinical care, and also help you make appointments and access services in a timely manner. If you need to see an endocrinologist, headache specialist, neurosurgeon, orthopedist, otolaryngologist, pain management specialist, psychiatrist, or sleep medicine expert—or if you require psychological services from experts at NYU Langone’s —we can facilitate this care. Care for children and adolescents is provided through Concussion Research We are at the forefront of concussion research. Current research focuses on the impact of a concussion on vision and brain processing, rapid sideline screening, group therapy treatments, and better ways to use imaging to understand the pathology of concussion. Our researchers are working to establish a standardized approach to treating children and adults with head injuries that is firmly grounded in evidence-based research. For information about current research studies on concussion or to participate in our clinical trials, please contact us at concussionresearch@nyulangone.org Community Outreach Our specialists are available to participate in public educational presentations for school personnel, healthcare providers, parents, and community organizations. Please email concussionoutreach@nyulangone.org for more information or to schedule a speaker. Our experts in neurology, physical medicine and rehabilitation, and sports medicine work together to create personalized care plans. Shae Datta Brian S. Im Siham D. Accacha Pediatric Endocrinologist Alexander Allen Prin Amorapanth AB Aishat A. Bakare-Okpala Pediatric Neurologist Laura J. Balcer Neha Bansal Jaydeep M. Bhatt Sarah M. Bobker Headache Specialist Myrna I. Cardiel CC Catherine Cho Neuro-Otologist Marvin T. Dang Family Medicine Specialist AD Andrew Dugue Robert J. Femia Steven R. Flanagan Farng-Yang A. Foo 212-598-6054 Injury Prevention Programs Our Dance Medicine Team Our Dance Clients Financial Assistance The Harkness Center for Dance Injuries at enhances the health, wellbeing, and quality of life of dancers and dance companies Experts at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries provide treatment for dance-related injuries and conditions. Members of our comprehensive medical team—physical medicine and rehabilitation doctors, orthopedic surgeons, athletic trainers, physical therapists, and acupuncturists—are actively involved in into dance-related injuries and are dedicated to providing dancers with the following services: Resources for Dancers During the COVID-19 Pandemic We’ve updated our Financial Assistance page with resources for dancers during the 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. consultations for pain related to stress fractures , ligament injuries, and other dance-related conditions through our Dance Clinic physical therapy to help you recover from an injury and avoid future incidents to help keep you dancing emergency care for injuries such as bone fractures and ankle sprains with our doctors, physical therapists, and licensed clinicians, including for injury prevention assessments , including numerous outreach, educational, research, and clinical services, to the performing arts community at NYU Langone, we provide complete care that meets your medical, rehabilitation, and performance needs. We accept many types of health insurance. is available for those who qualify. No professional dancer or pre-professional dance student is turned away due to an inability to pay. Contact Us and Stay in Touch To schedule an in-office appointment or a video visit, please call . For more information about our services, you can call Harkness@NYULangone.org . Appointments for our Dance Clinic, physical therapy, and injury prevention assessments must be made by phone. You can also sign up to receive our e-newsletter In Contact , as well as announcements about our clinical, educational, and research events, programs, and services for the dance and healthcare communities. Also, we invite you to follow us on We are leaders in dance medicine research . We also offer online and live continuing medical education (CME) and continuing education unit (CEU) certificate courses. Launched in 2020, the Harkness Center’s Postgraduate Performing Arts Physical Therapy Fellowship Program has achieved full accreditation with the American Board of Physical Therapy Residency and Fellowship Education (ABPTRFE). We offer live and online education courses for dance and healthcare professionals. At the forefront of our educational programming is DanceMedU , an accredited online course series. We offer Principles of Dance Medicine: Clinical Management of the Dancer Patient for healthcare professionals and the dance community. live education courses for healthcare and dance professionals provide evidence-based research findings, explore dance medicine as a potential career path, and provide education on injury prevention and dancer wellness. Our physical therapists have special expertise in treating dancers. Patricia R. Cavaleri Performing Arts & Dance Medicine Therapist Sarah E. Edery-Altas