and a PRESS above the median were 90 percent more likely to experience a major cardiovascular event. The PRESS tool could enable more personalized treatment decisions, such as prescribing anti-platelet therapies like aspirin, based on individual platelet function. Cardiologists have long known that increased platelet reactivity is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, yet limited tools exist to identify individuals with a hyperreactive platelet phenotype. In a study recently published in Nature Communications , researchers at NYU Langone Health developed the first transcriptome-based test designed to do just that. The tool, dubbed the Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS), uses the genetic signature of a patient’s platelets to assess reactivity, making it far more precise and less labor-intensive than conventional aggregometry techniques. “Our results demonstrate that this scoring system can circumvent aggregometry or other platelet activity measurements to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events,” says lead author Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, director of the . “It can be used successfully across populations, both in patients at risk of heart attacks and in healthy people whose future risk would otherwise remain unknown.” Aggregometry Challenges Although aggregometry is commonly used to detect insufficiently reactive (dysfunctional) platelets, routine measurement of platelet hyperreactivity has been infeasible to date. Aggregometry tests were not originally designed for that purpose, and until recently they lacked the sensitivity to determine how much reactivity was too much. Over the past decade, the field has shifted toward a more calibrated method: exposing platelets to a tiny dose of epinephrine, which weakly encourages aggregation. Experts have settled on 60 percent aggregation in a platelet sample at 0.4 μM (micromoles) of epinephrine as the threshold over which platelets are designated as hyperreactive. Still, the correlation between this metric and cardiovascular events remains uncertain—and a standard clinical test for platelet hyperreactivity remains elusive. Both deficiencies persist, in part, because results delivered by even the most sophisticated aggregometry techniques often vary from lab to lab. “This scoring system can circumvent aggregometry to reliably predict platelet hyperreactivity and the related risk of cardiovascular events” Jeffrey S. Berger, MD To overcome the latter obstacle, a team led by Dr. Berger and Tessa J. Barrett, PhD , conceived of a “liquid biopsy”—a test based on the platelets’ gene expression. “We thought this approach would be more reproducible than subjecting platelets to chemical exposure in a test tube,” Dr. Barrett explains. Test Validation In the current study, Dr. Berger’s team set out to answer three questions: whether patients whose platelets met the existing definition for hyperreactivity were, in fact, at greater risk for cardiovascular events; whether their platelets’ genetic signature could be used as a biomarker of hyperreactivity; and whether the patients’ degree of cardiovascular risk could be assessed using such a marker. The researchers began by using epinephrine-induced aggregometry to track the impact of platelet activity status on major adverse cardiovascular and limb events (MACLE) in patients with peripheral artery disease. MACLE was measured in this group of high-risk patients after they underwent lower extremity revascularization. Among 254 participants whose platelet aggregation was measured with 0.4 μM of epinephrine, 17.5 percent showed hyperreactive platelets. That cohort, the team found, had more than double the incidence of MACLE within 30 days after lower extremity revascularization than patients without hyperreactivity. Next, the team used RNA sequencing to search for genetic differences associated with hyperreactivity in platelet material collected from 129 of the patients. They found that 451 transcripts were significantly correlated with percent aggregation to epinephrine. The researchers designed the PRESS scoring system based on these results, then confirmed its accuracy by checking it against platelet aggregation tests. To further validate PRESS, the team explored the link between the score and cardiovascular risk in other patient groups. Among these was the Heart Attack Research Program, which enrolled women undergoing coronary angiography. In this group, PRESS was found to be higher in those who had a heart attack than in those with stable coronary artery disease. Among patients with lower extremity atherosclerosis followed for an average of 18 months, patients with PRESS above the median score were 90 percent more likely to have a major cardiovascular event than those below it. PRESS Forward Besides providing a potentially transformative method for assessing thrombosis-related cardiovascular risk, the PRESS test could help patients and physicians make better-informed decisions on treatment. One example is the question of whether an individual should take aspirin, which counters clotting but increases the risk of bleeding. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” “Physicians currently prescribe this medication based on available risk factors, including high cholesterol or high blood pressure, which are not directly related to platelet function,” says Dr. Berger. “PRESS promises to help physicians tailor antiplatelet treatment to the people most likely to benefit: those with platelet hyperreactivity.” “A platelet-based test would help us optimize therapeutic approaches to fit each patient’s needs,” adds Dr. Barrett. “Our score has the potential to personalize cardiovascular disease risk prevention.” Tessa J. Barrett, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and pathology. Her research centers on the interaction between myeloid cells and platelets, using in vivo models of thromboinflammation coupled with multiomic phenotyping to investigate how this axis contributes to cardiovascular disease. Jeffrey S. Berger, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and surgery and director of the Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease. His research focuses on discovering novel mechanisms of heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, and stroke. He is particularly interested in the etiology of unexplained thromboembolic disease. Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine Although intravenous and nasally administered forms of ketamine and esketamine have rapid-acting efficacy for major depressive disorder (MDD), with intranasal esketamine being FDA-approved for this indication, their hemodynamic and psychotomimetic properties require a physician’s supervision, limiting their utility. Recently, the FDA approved a novel type of antidepressant—one that mimics ketamine’s mechanism of action, but without its challenging side effects. Auvelity is the first oral antidepressant that does not primarily target the monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine. Instead, like ketamine, it targets the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which regulate glutamate. “[With this medication], patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Dan Iosifescu, MD According to , a professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health who co-led clinical trials for Auvelity, the new drug—a combination of dextromethorphan and bupropion—has several advantages. “It can alleviate symptoms more quickly than other oral antidepressants,” says Dr. Iosifescu. “It also has a practical advantage over ketamine in that patients don’t need to come into a doctor’s office and be monitored for hours afterward. Having a pill that you can take at home is far less cumbersome.” Previously, Dr. Iosifescu played key roles in the development of ketamine and esketamine as therapies for treatment-resistant MDD, overseeing a research program that produced several pivotal studies. These successful trials, in turn, laid the groundwork for Auvelity. Laying the Groundwork In their efforts to identify an oral alternative to ketamine that would not require stringent monitoring, Dr. Iosifescu and his team focused on dextromethorphan—a strong NMDA receptor inhibitor commonly used in cough medications. Because dextromethorphan is metabolized too swiftly to function as an antidepressant on its own, it would have to be combined with a compound that could slow that process. One candidate was quinidine, a stereoisomer of quinine, which blocks the enzyme CYP2D6. Dr. Iosifescu and colleagues first conducted an open-label trial of Nuedexta, a combination of dextromethorphan and quinidine used to treat pseudobulbar affect. In a paper published in 2017 , they reported that many patients with treatment-resistant MDD experienced significant improvements in mood. Soon afterward, Dr. Iosifescu was approached by representatives of Axsome Therapeutics, who were also investigating dextromethorphan’s potential as an antidepressant. The company asked him to help lead their trials of an experimental drug (later named Auvelity) that paired the chemical with bupropion, a norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor that also blocks CYP2D6. A Pair of Key Studies The FDA’s decision to approve Auvelity was based on two large studies. The first, with Dr. Iosifescu as lead author, was Journal of Clinical Psychiatry . In a multicenter phase 3 trial, 327 adults with MDD were randomized to either Auvelity or a placebo. After 6 weeks, Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores fell by an average of 16 points in treated patients, compared with 12 points in those taking the placebo. Nearly 40 percent of those taking Auvelity achieved remission, versus 17 percent with placebo. The second study, with Dr. Iosifescu as senior author, appeared in the American Journal of Psychiatry . It involved 97 adults with MDD who received either Auvelity or bupropion alone. At the 6-week mark, patients taking Auvelity showed a 14-point drop in MADRS scores, compared with 9 points for those on bupropion. Among the Auvelity group, 47 percent achieved remission, versus 16 percent of the bupropion group. In both studies, Auvelity was superior to the comparator after only 1 or 2 weeks, suggesting a more rapid onset of efficacy compared to other antidepressants. “These results showed conclusively that dextromethorphan, rather than bupropion, is the main driver of Auvelity’s efficacy,” Dr. Iosifescu explains. In both studies, Auvelity exhibited a side effect profile comparable to other oral antidepressants, with no indication of metabolic problems or increased sexual dysfunction. Next Steps Auvelity is now being prescribed as an alternative or supplemental treatment for patients whose symptoms are not adequately addressed by other antidepressants. Dr. Iosifescu suggests that it should also be studied as a maintenance medication for people who improved after receiving ketamine treatment as an emergency intervention. “In theory,” he says, “those patients could benefit from taking this drug regularly, or as a rescue medication if they suffer a relapse.” Dr. Iosifescu is a member of the advisory board of Axsome Therapeutics, manufacturer of Auvelity. He has received consulting honoraria from Axsome, which sponsored the trials spotlighted in this article. Adult Psychiatry Dan Iosifescu, MD, is a professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His research interests center on the development of novel treatments for severe mood and anxiety disorders. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Elizabeth Comen, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in breast cancer treatment that have significantly extended survival, much knowledge and research is still needed to adequately address the long-term impact of treatment and optimize women’s overall health. According to Elizabeth Comen, MD , newly appointed to the , those underaddressed areas are the product of a medical system that has historically overlooked the needs of women and minorities. Dr. Comen joins NYU Langone Health to build multidisciplinary partnerships to enhance women’s health—in and beyond cancer care. An esteemed physician and author of the recently published All in Her Head, which explores the history of women’s healthcare, Dr. Comen discusses how her research and advocacy for women’s health equity informs her practice as a breast cancer oncologist. The Dismissal of Women in Healthcare Dr. Comen , your research and recent book focus on inequities in women’s healthcare—specifically, the ways in which our healthcare system is designed to overlook or dismiss the medical needs of women. What led you to this research area? Dr. Comen: My deep interest in the history of medicine traces back to my undergraduate education, when I majored in the history of science; I was fascinated by how scientific discovery and medicine are intertwined with the fabric of society, culture, and religion. Later, as a breast oncologist, I began to hear heartbreaking stories of women dismissed or diminished within the medical system. For example, I saw a young woman whose diagnosis was delayed despite her concerns over a breast mass; she’d been told it couldn’t be cancer because she was “too young.” Countless patients have also expressed concerns about their sexual health going unaddressed or being brushed aside in the context of cancer treatment. Stories like these motivated me to explore the complex legacy of women’s healthcare, and how our medical system has historically overlooked the unique experiences and needs of women. “Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—doctors across specialties—take care of women.” Women are from head to toe different from men, from our biology to our experience of disease. Yet beyond gynecology, the rest of medicine has been built around the 70-kilogram White male. Women’s health has historically been the purview of the gynecologist, but in truth, we all—gastroenterologists, cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists, doctors across specialties—take care of women. A Legacy of Misogyny How can medicine better meet the healthcare needs of women? It begins with simply recognizing the legacy of misogyny in women’s healthcare and the ways it manifests in the patient experience. Female patients are often told their fatigue is due to being a new mother, their pain is in their head, or that it’s “just” depression or anxiety. When in reality these patients may be suffering from treatable medical conditions, compounded by the dismissal or neglect they face from their doctors. With that recognition, there is an opportunity not only to change how we as clinicians approach the care of women but also to advance medical education and research by looking more closely at conditions or symptoms that we may be dismissing too frequently. The good news is, there is a groundswell of public support to advocate for the rights of women as full participants in their own care. Patient Engagement on a Personal Level How do some of these ideas take shape in the care you deliver as a breast oncologist? The art of being an oncologist is in recognizing that no two biological processes exist in a patient in the same way. Taking care of women in this context requires understanding people individually, at a human level. It means thinking about their cancer not only in terms of survival, but also in terms of what it truly means to live. Understanding patients’ fears, joys, and aspirations is essential to providing holistic care. I engage with patients on a personal level, exploring how each patient finds joy and what she is looking forward to. For example, perhaps there is a family wedding she wants to attend and wishes to avoid the heavy side effects of chemotherapy during that time. “When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most.” When discussing personalized medicine, we often focus on targeted therapy and genomics. However, truly personalized care also involves planning a patient’s treatment so that she can prioritize what matters most to her in life. Enhancing Quality of Life What advancements do you celebrate in current breast cancer treatment approaches, and what do you think should be prioritized going forward? Breast cancer is an extraordinary example of a condition where we have greatly improved survival outcomes in both localized and metastatic disease, providing better, less toxic treatments. With that improved survival, we have an opportunity to help women thrive long after treatment, by prioritizing their overall health. Historically, the system has focused on curing women of their breast cancer but ignored other elements of their posttreatment wellbeing, such as sexual health, which is incredibly important. I’m energized in thinking about how we will not only continue to extend patients’ lives, but also improve the quality of their lives. Building Bridges Toward Equitable Treatment What do you hope to achieve at NYU Langone’s Perlmutter Cancer Center, both in research and in clinical care? If optimal cancer care means looking at the whole patient rather than a fragmented group of systems, NYU Langone—which prioritizes holistic care and interdisciplinary collaboration—is an optimal place to practice medicine. I am looking forward to collaborating with Perlmutter Canter Center’s incredible researchers, scientists, and clinicians to continue to bridge specialties as we consider how to care for the whole patient over time. Additionally, we have an opportunity to truly improve equity in cancer care. When you consider that Black women are 40 percent more likely to die from breast cancer, in large part due to access to resources, you begin to understand the intersectionality of misogyny, racism, and bias in medicine. With NYU Langone’s footprint both in and beyond New York City, we have an opportunity to meaningfully address disparities in breast cancer outcomes in novel and nimble ways. Elizabeth Comen, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and in the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her clinical practice focuses on breast cancer oncology and women’s health. Latest in Cancer ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Each year, first-of-their-kind procedures are performed by surgical teams at the . Notable cases include using a femoral artery homograft in a modified Blalock-Thomas-Taussig shunt (BTTS) , applying a novel approach to the Norwood operation for right aortic arch in hypoplastic left heart syndrome, and retaining a patent ductus arteriosus in a newborn to bridge time to heart transplant. Here, cardiothoracic surgeon , reflects on a notable complex case and shares his insights from taking risks to advance patient care. Of the many novel procedures that you’ve been involved in, which one stands out as being particularly memorable? Dr. Kumar: One case that comes to mind is that of a 22-year-old patient with stenosis of a single coronary artery following an arterial switch procedure as an infant. We used a femoral artery homograft for that repair . Using the graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery. “Using the [femoral artery] graft was a unique approach that had never been described before, and we got an excellent result of a widened, normal-looking artery.” As an infant, the patient had undergone a switch procedure for dextro-transposition of the great arteries (d-TGA). He began to experience severe chest pain and shortness of breath during exercise as a teenager. Our determined he had developed a narrowing of his single coronary artery. The artery split into two, with the right coronary artery being patent and the left coronary severely narrowed at its origin. Dr. Ralph Mosca and I performed the surgery together. We knew going in that providing the patient with a durable repair was a top priority. The patient was a young and extremely active individual—he was an avid runner and biked nearly every day to work. We wanted him to be able to enjoy that lifestyle. During the surgery, we realized that unroofing was not an option due to his anatomy. Bypass grafting was also not a great option at such a young age. We elected to enlarge the left coronary artery using the femoral artery homograft. The procedure went smoothly, we got an excellent outcome, and the patient is doing great. [ Read more about the case here. ] Let’s discuss the process of innovating in surgery. How do you approach the inherent risks of performing a new procedure? We aren’t afraid to innovate. But at the same time, we are not reckless. We weigh the pros and cons of a new procedure and spend considerable time thinking about it before actually executing it. We think of every possible step where things could go wrong, and discuss how best to prevent those pitfalls or overcome them if they do happen. In doing so, we minimize errors and maximize outcomes. “Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery.” I would also say that we do not hesitate to take the expert advice of our adult cardiac surgery colleagues when the situation demands. We tap into their expertise on conditions more commonly seen in adults than children. That is one of the advantages of being attached to an adult hospital. We collaborate well here at NYU Langone, and I think that’s one of the standout reasons why we are able to surge forward with more confidence. What motivates you to keep pushing boundaries in pediatric heart surgery? As a comprehensive program, we want to be able to cater to all the medical needs of our patients. We do not want to turn away a patient who comes to our doorstep for lack of medical or surgical expertise. We strive for the success of every child, no matter what it takes. When this happens repeatedly, it fosters a culture of excellence in the group. Success in any field is a mere reflection of the processes in place—be it sports or pediatric heart surgery. At NYU Langone, the processes we’ve established over time are key to our successful outcomes. Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Cardiac Surgery, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of pediatric heart transplant. His clinical and research interests include complex congenital heart defects, arrhythmias, bradycardia, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery Source: NYU Langone Health Despite advances in surgical techniques, most patients still experience some degree of inflammation after cataract surgery. Currently, corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the two most frequently prescribed anti-inflammatory medications, yet there is no established consensus on the optimal regimen, dosage, or treatment duration. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD , director of the Division of Cornea Services at NYU Langone Health and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology , in collaboration with colleagues at the Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute, have brought attention to this issue, calling for clear, evidence-based guidelines. “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery.” “There are no specialty-specific guidelines outlining what we should be prescribing after routine cataract surgery,” says Dr. Prescott. “Studies to identify best practices and inform guidelines are needed to offer patients the best possible care.” Practice Patterns With limited data to inform best practices, Dr. Prescott and colleagues took on the challenge of capturing current prescribing patterns. “We developed a survey that was distributed to members of kera-net, a global online platform sponsored by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. Membership in kera-net is open to ophthalmologists specializing in corneas, external disease, and refractive surgery. They must also be board-certified in ophthalmology by the American Board of Ophthalmology or its equivalent in their home country. The survey consisted of 21 questions aimed at collecting data on participant demographics, the types of anti-inflammatory medication used, and how they were administered. Before being distributed, the questionnaire underwent review and evaluation by eight cataract surgeons. Results from the study were published in the Journal of Cataract & Refractive Surgery Variations on a Theme A total of 217 ophthalmologists responded to the survey. The majority of respondents were cornea subspecialists (79 percent), and most practiced in the United States (79 percent). The data on prescribing practices revealed significant variation, highlighting the lack of guidelines. Eyedrops According to the researchers, 94 percent of respondents prescribed eyedrops, making it the preferred postoperative treatment regimen. The most commonly prescribed class of eyedrops were corticosteroids (97 percent), followed by antibiotics (85 percent), NSAIDs (73 percent), and combination drops (19 percent). The three most frequent topical treatment regimens were corticosteroids and antibiotics and NSAIDS (53 percent), combination drops in one bottle (19 percent), and corticosteroids and antibiotics (16 percent). Intraocular/Periocular Options Intraocular/periocular options, including new sustained-release delivery systems, were less preferred, with only a slight majority (58.5 percent) of respondents using these options. Surgeons who preferred intraocular/periocular injections after cataract surgery most frequently injected only antibiotics (69 percent), followed by corticosteroids plus antibiotics (17 percent), single combination injection (8 percent), and corticosteroids alone (6 percent). Additionally, 58 percent of surgeons who used intraocular/periocular corticosteroids also recommended topical corticosteroids after cataract surgery, even though there is conflicting evidence regarding this practice. “Most surgeons preferred topical, generic options as the mainstay post–routine cataract surgical treatment,” says Dr. Prescott. “Few respondents had adopted the newer sustained-release corticosteroid formulations.” One possible reason for this could be the higher costs associated with sustained-release formulations, Dr. Prescott explains. Other contributing factors could be a hesitancy to adopt a new product and lack of long-term comparative studies showing superior efficacy to topicals, she adds. Awareness to Guidelines “Our findings will play a role in developing evidence-based guidelines endorsed by the Cornea Society,” Dr. Prescott says. “We anticipate that this will be a topic of discussion at the Cornea Society meeting this fall.” In addition to pushing for guidelines, the researchers plan to conduct future surveys to track whether the use of injectables or sustained-release formulations changes over time. Furthermore, they intend to capture practice patterns from the broader population of ophthalmologists who perform cataract surgery. Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Cornea Services and the Ophthalmology Residency Program and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in complex cataract and corneal surgery. Latest in Ophthalmology Dr. Kenneth Wald on Retinal Disease Management The director of vitreoretinal surgery and retinal diseases talks AMD, retinal tears, and more on Doctor Radio’s Brain and Eye Show. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AAO 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Chicago from October 18 to 21. Advancing an Ambitious New Vision for Uveitis Research A leading uveitis expert discusses the need to rethink how the group of related autoimmune diseases are classified and treated. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis Screening programs are crucial for early detection of breast cancer, and mammography remains the medical imaging standard. Traditional mammography provides 2D images of breast tissue, but when combined with digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT), or “3D mammography”, it becomes more likely to detect cancer, especially in dense breast tissue. These 3D DBT images are built from series of two-dimensional images and are typically 10x or 100x their 2D counterparts in total size, which doubles interpretation time for radiologists. Artificial intelligence might be the solution. Researchers have been developing and using AI software that can routinely and efficiently evaluate the presence of cancer in large image datasets. AI software can also identify patterns and abnormalities that human radiologists might miss. In a recent study IEEE Transactions On Medical Imaging , researchers at NYU Langone Health have developed an AI-based 3D imaging model, called 3D-GMIC, that greatly improves computational efficiency without reducing accuracy. “We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD , a machine learning expert and senior researcher on the study, “In this AI model, we were trying to intuitively reproduce the way radiologists look at images. We save computation by selecting certain areas of the image for deeper analysis.” Performance Through Localization The 3D-GMIC model builds on a labeled dataset of breast images that took NYU Langone researchers years to compile. The model, developed by Jungkyu Park—a doctoral student in Dr. Geras’ group and first author of the study—and colleagues, was trained with image-level labels only. This included elements like whether or not a patient has cancer, as it is challenging to manually build a dataset of localized, labeled regions of cancer within large 3D images. 3D-GMIC learns to highlight the important regions, enabling it to learn from the data without localization labels. “It is actually pretty remarkable that you can localize these cancers without the localization labels,” says Dr. Geras. In terms of image analysis, DBT images are comprised of 70 slices on average, each containing a few million pixels. “With such large images, humans would never look at the entire image all at once,” says Geras. 3D-GMIC predicts the malignancy of lesions and localizes them in 3D images. First, it uses a global model to identify “patches” in the image that require more attention. “We then look at these patches with a local model, a higher capacity network,” says Dr. Geras. A visual representation of the 3D-GMIC workflow applied to a digital breast tomosynthesis. From left to right: The raw input image, an input image with the radiologist’s annotation, regions of interest for malignant lesions, visualization of the locations of cropped patches, and the two patches that are considered the most important by the model. By focusing on specific patches, researchers found that 3D-GMIC uses 78 to 90 percent less GPU memory, and 91 to 96 percent less computation than existing AI models. Despite this significant reduction, 3D-GMIC still showed comparable performance to earlier models, demonstrating that it successfully classified large 3D images. Finding Practical Utility A promising feature of this study is that the 3D-GMIC model generalized well to an external image dataset from Duke University Hospital. With AI-based medical imaging, it’s challenging to build models that work across different locations. “The fact that this is working across different sources of data shows this method is robust, which is an important condition for the practical utility of these models,” says Dr. Geras. “When we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care. We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” Laura Heacock, MD , an associate professor of radiology at NYU Langone, they are continuing to test the model in clinical settings. “We’ve found that when we give expert breast imagers access to models such as this, we improve patient care,” says Dr. Heacock. “We find more cancers, and we find different cancers than the ones that the radiologists find.” This study is part of a long-term research project on AI for all modalities of breast imaging , including DBT, ultrasound, and MRI. These imaging modalities all “say something different about the tissue of the patient,” says Dr. Geras. Developing a neural network that could look at mammography, ultrasounds, and MRIs has the potential to lead to more accurate diagnoses. Machine Learning Krzysztof J. Geras, PhD, is an assistant professor of radiology and a Data Science Core Investigator. His research focuses on the use of artificial intelligence to advance breast cancer diagnosis and guide treatment. Laura Heacock, MD, is an associate professor of radiology and fellowship-trained breast imager. She specializes in researching and using artificial intelligence for breast imaging. We have locations throughout the New York City area, and in Florida. View All Locations (57) NYU Langone primary care doctors are focused on one goal: partnering with you to manage your personalized health needs. Your primary care doctor is the physician who you visit for most of your healthcare needs. A primary care doctor offers preventive care—such as an annual physical, immunizations, and screening for common conditions—and also helps diagnose and treat a wide range of common health concerns. There are different types of doctors that you can choose to be your primary care physician. This includes internal medicine and family medicine doctors, as well as obstetrician–gynecologists (OB/GYNs) for women. Pediatricians are primary care doctors for children. Our primary care doctors offer online appointment scheduling and same day doctor’s office visits close to where you live and work. We also provide wellness services, including programs to help you stop smoking, lose weight, and get the vaccinations you need to keep you healthy, whether here or while traveling abroad. We also help you manage medical conditions such as , referring you to specialists within NYU Langone when needed. Our primary care and internal medicine doctors provide wellness care and individualized treatment plans. Our online patient portal is called . It allows you to communicate via private messaging with your physician and clinical staff, as well as to view laboratory and test results and schedule appointments. Our Locations (57) NYU Langone Care on Demand—Upper East Side 1465 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 646-754-2300 332-210-7640 NYU Langone Care on Demand—West Village 540 Hudson Street, New York, NY, 10014 646-754-2200 332-210-7641 NYU Langone East Side Medical & Cardiovascular Associates 184 East 70th Street, Suite B1, New York, NY, 10021 212-737-2270 212-249-2054 NYU Langone Global Pediatrics 1559 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10028 212-585-3329 NYU Langone Internal Medicine Associates 222 East 41st Street, 18th and 19th Floors, New York, NY, 10017 212-263-8313 212-263-8995 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Washington Square 555 LaGuardia Place, New York, NY, 10012 212-263-2446 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Bensonhurst 2310 65th Street, Suite 2, Brooklyn, NY, 11204 718-998-0100 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Dyker Heights 7316 13th Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11228 718-630-1404 NYU Langone Medical Associates—West Brighton 2857 West 8th Street, 2nd Floor, Brooklyn, NY, 11224 929-455-3060 929-455-3061 NYU Langone Slope Pediatrics 60 Eighth Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11217 718-636-0019 718-636-3951 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Bayside 44-01 Francis Lewis Boulevard, Suites L3B and L2A, Bayside, NY, 11361 718-445-0500 718-717-0202 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Steinway Medical 22-02 Steinway Street, Astoria, NY, 11105 347-242-2684 185 Central Avenue, Bethpage, NY, 11714 516-758-8600 NYU Langone Family Medicine Associates—West Babylon 580 Sunrise Highway, West Babylon, NY, 11704 631-422-9355 NYU Langone Geriatric Medicine Associates—Mineola 222 Station Plaza North, Suite 400, Mineola, NY, 11501 516-663-2588 516-663-4644 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center 175 Fulton Avenue, Suite 100, Hempstead, NY, 11550 516-292-1034 J. Ira & Nicki Harris Family Ambulatory Care—Bridgehampton 2510 Montauk Highway, Bridgehampton, NY, 11932