Gleason 7 (3+4 or 4+3) or PSA >10. The type of imaging performed may vary by physician preference and availability, but testing should evaluate the pelvic/retroperitoneal lymph nodes by cross sectional imaging and bones by bone scintigraphy (99mTc MDP).92 The recommended cross sectional imaging is either MRI of the prostate or pelvis or CT scan of the abdomen/pelvis. There are relative advantages and disadvantages associated with MRI and CT. Prostate MRI provides more accurate imaging of the prostate gland and has no associated radiation exposure compared to CT; however, high quality prostate MRI may not be available at all sites.93 Technetium bone scans have been a longstanding assessment tool in prostate cancer. More sensitive bone imaging is becoming available, including 18F sodium fluoride PET/CT bone scans, PSMA PET imaging, and whole body MRI.94,95 Currently, only 18F sodium fluoride PET/CT is FDA approved. While these next generation scans are routinely used outside the United States, because of development and reimbursement issues, they are not routinely available in the United States and are not routinely recommended for staging at this time herein. For intermediate risk prostate cancer, the Panel’s recommendations for baseline imaging vary somewhat from NCCN and American College of Radiology (ACR) recommendations. NCCN qualifies staging recommendations for men with life expectancy > 5 years or symptomatic disease and recommends bone scan for T2 and PSA >10 and CT if T2 and have a nomogram probability for nodal involvement >. ACR uses descriptive language, and for intermediate risk prostate cancer recommends that pelvic MRI “usually” be done and CT and bone scan “may” be done.92 This Panel’s recommendation, based on expert opinion, is that imaging be considered if two or more risk factors are present and does not include nomogram calculations. 16. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) as standard treatment options for patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Two RCTs have evaluated overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival among men undergoing radical prostatectomy compared to watchful waiting or American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 20 observation: the Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group Study Number 4 (SPCG 4)96 and PIVOT.51 The SPCG 4 trial provided evidence supporting the setting of intermediate risk disease, because even though subset analyses focusing on the intermediate risk subgroup defined for the guidelines herein were not pre specified, most trial participants had intermediate risk cancer as evidenced by a) Gleason score 7 on biopsy, or b) clinical stage of T2, or c) PSA >10ng/ml at enrollment. SPCG 4 showed higher overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival among patients randomized to radical prostatectomy at 10 year’s follow up. In the trial, the relative risk of dying after surgery was observed to be reduced at 0.62 ( CI 0.44 to 0.87, p=0.01) with a reduction of cumulative incidence of death from prostate cancer from 20. to 14. at fifteen years. The PIVOT trial is the only RCT to have included pre specified analyses for evaluating survival differences stratified by prostate cancer risk categories and by PSA at initial diagnosis. Subject participants in PIVOT had predominantly low risk disease, and the trial was underpowered to conclusively demonstrate non inferiority. Accordingly, there was no difference in overall survival among the entire trial cohort (including low and intermediate risk subjects combined). However, pre specified subset analyses showed reduction in prostate cancer mortality among PIVOT participants who had either intermediate risk cancer or baseline PSA greater than 10ng/ml and underwent radical prostatectomy. In the trial, men who were randomized to surgery were found to have a lower risk of death from prostate cancer or treatment (hazard ratio 0.63, CI 0.36 to 1.09, p=0.09) with an absolute risk reduction estimated at 2.. Surgery was associated with an improvement in all cause mortality primarily in patients with PSA levels greater than 10 ng/ml (p=0.04) and possibly with intermediate and high risk cancers (p=0.07). Notably, the watchful waiting and observation arms of SPCG 4 and PIVOT, respectively, did not include monitoring or surveillance with intent to use delayed definitive intervention for specific progression criteria, as is the fundamental principle that discerns contemporary active surveillance/management (in contrast to watchful waiting or observation). Such active surveillance/management was compared to radical prostatectomy in the ProtecT trial, which randomized subjects to surveillance, external beam radiotherapy combined with hormonal therapy, or radical prostatectomy.50 However, ProtecT had an even greater preponderance of low risk prostate cancer among participants than was present in PIVOT. Among patients randomized to surveillance, nearly half underwent definitive intervention at some point during the first 10 years of follow up. A non significant difference in overall survival or prostate cancer specific survival was seen at 10 years follow up in ProtecT, but subset analysis of intermediate risk patients was not performed, limiting the relevance of ProtecT with regard to possible survival benefit of radical prostatectomy in intermediate risk cancer. Of interest, despite the preponderance of low risk disease in ProtecT, prostate cancer clinical progression and metastases were significantly lower among subjects randomized to either prostatectomy or radiation with hormonal therapy compared to those randomized to surveillance. Additionally, an early underpowered RCT enrolling 97 men compared radical prostatectomy to radiotherapy but found no difference in death or metastatic rate after five years of follow up.97 A series of comparative outcome results based on retrospective information using propensity adjustment or instrumental analysis comparing radical prostatectomy versus external beam radiotherapy, and radical prostatectomy versus prostate brachytherapy, have suggested a mortality reduction in patients treated with surgery compared to external beam radiation and brachytherapy.59,60,98 107 In follow up to these individual investigations, Wallis et al. have published a meta analysis of nineteen pooled studies with 118,830 patients.108 This study reported that overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival were higher for the surgical patients. In particular, the observed benefit was seen irrespective of risk category, radiation regimen, time period, and follow up length. This study, although large, utilizes retrospective data and can be subject to significant bias. The magnitude of this potential clinical benefit, if any, has not been prospectively validated or demonstrated in any large RCT, including the ProtecT study. 17. Clinicians should inform patients that favorable intermediate risk prostate cancer can be treated with radiation alone, but that the evidence basis is less robust than for combining radiotherapy with ADT. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Two randomized trials support the addition of ADT to EBRT for intermediate risk prostate cancer. RTOG 9408 randomized 1,979 patients to EBRT (66.6 Gy) with versus without four months of ADT and had 9.1 years of median follow up.75 Ten year overall survival improved with ADT for the intermediate risk subgroup American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 21 of 1,068 patients from to (p=.03). A smaller trial randomized 206 patients to 70 Gy of radiation with versus without 6 months of ADT.109 In patients with little or no comorbidity, 15 year overall survival was improved with ADT ( versus , p=.04). A caveat to these trials was the use of lower radiation doses no longer considered standard today. At least four randomized trials have compared lower radiation doses (68 70 Gy) to modern higher radiation doses (74 80 Gy), and all demonstrated improved cancer control with higher radiation doses.110 113 These trials have led to the adoption of higher radiation doses as the modern standard of care, and the benefit of adding ADT to modern higher doses of radiation is the subject of continued investigation. EORTC 22991 randomized 819 patients ( intermediate risk) to RT (doses ranged from 70 to 78 Gy) versus RT with ADT;114 ADT improved clinical progression free survival even among patients who received 78 Gy of RT, but overall survival data are not yet mature. There are no randomized trials demonstrating a survival benefit from adding ADT to low dose rate or high dose rate brachytherapy monotherapy, so ADT should not be added to brachytherapy except to reduce the size of the prostate to allow the dosimetry to be optimized. There is emerging recognition that intermediate risk prostate cancer represents a broad group of patients with varying prognoses, and a new classification system separates intermediate risk into unfavorable and favorable groups (as defined in the Introduction).11 Patients with unfavorable intermediate risk disease should be especially considered for the addition of ADT to EBRT. 18. In select patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer, clinicians may consider other treatment options such as cryosurgery. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Treatment options routinely employed for the treatment of intermediate risk prostate cancer include radical prostatectomy, and external beam radiotherapy. However, cryosurgery, may be appropriate depending on patient specific factors, including preferences, comorbidities, and life expectancy. Comparative effectiveness research evaluating cryosurgery for localized prostate cancer has been limited to one RCT and several non randomized prospective or comparative studies.115 117 Whole gland ablative therapies such as cryosurgery may be appropriate for patients with contraindications to more traditional therapies, such as prostatectomy or radiotherapy (e.g. medically inoperable patients with either previous pelvic radiotherapy or autoimmune disorders). All of these management approaches (observation/watchful waiting, active surveillance, cryosurgery) do not currently have sufficient published prospective comparative evidence for their routine application for the management of intermediate risk prostate cancer, and patients should be informed of this lack of comparative evidence during SDM discussions. 19. Active surveillance may be offered to select patients with favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer; however, patients should be informed that this comes with a higher risk of developing metastases compared to definitive treatment. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Active surveillance may be appropriate in selected patients with intermediate risk disease who have selected deferred primary treatment to delay treatment related toxicities until tumor progression. Patients who are considering surveillance may benefit from an MRI and targeted biopsy. If the MRI is negative, or targeted biopsy shows only Gleason 6 disease, they are likely to have a favorable prognosis, and surveillance is a reasonable strategy. However, patients who elect active surveillance should be informed that this comes with a risk of developing metastases as shown in the PIVOT and ProtecT trials.50,51 There are, several groups of Gleason 7 patients who may be favorable candidates.118 Patients with small volume cancer on biopsy who have < Gleason pattern 4 may reflect artifactual upgrading due to tangential cut of a Gleason 3 acinus, in which case the lumen is not seen and the pathologist’s impression is of a solid clump of cells (i.e. higher grade).119,120 20. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Observation/watchful waiting is an approach to prostate cancer that does not include active surveillance with PSA/MRI/repeat prostate biopsy and by definition also does not include prostate cancer therapies such as surgery/radiation/androgen deprivation. Randomized trials have been done comparing prostatectomy to observation.51,52,96 The SPCG 4 trial was composed of non screen detected tumors and demonstrated benefit American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 22 for prostatectomy; the survival benefit was primarily in men < 65 years of age.96 The PIVOT trial ( low , intermediate , high risk) did not show a benefit for prostatectomy for the total group; however, a subset analysis of the intermediate risk patients did show benefit (HR 0.69).51 At four years the mortality was identical in both cohorts. Thus patients with life expectancy <5 years are unlikely to derive survival benefit from prostatectomy. When choosing an initial therapy for localized prostate cancer, it is important to consider the patients psychological state (competency, anxiety, depression). A SEER Medicare analysis demonstrated that men with depression were less likely to have definitive therapy (surgery or radiation) and that depressed men also had worse overall (not prostate cancer specific) mortality across prostate cancer risk classifications.121 Clinicians should be aware of mental health issues as a possible cause of treatment disparity and seek multidisciplinary input when appropriate. 21. Clinicians should inform intermediate risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or HIFU that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) The Panel recognizes that novel therapies including HIFU and focal prostate ablation may provide QoL advantages for patients in comparison to surgery and radiotherapy. However, there are no prospective randomized or comparative effectiveness data versus traditional treatments available. Published five year oncologic outcomes for HIFU are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials of HIFU in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of intermediate risk prostate cancer. The Panel also recognizes there is a growing interested in partial prostate treatment (i.e. focal therapy) by both patients and clinicians. Theoretical advantages include less morbidity versus whole gland treatment though this is at the potential expense of leaving undetected and untreated cancer. Initial focal therapy reports with short term follow up suggest effective disease eradication in the treated area of appropriately selected patients. Studies where TRUS biopsy of the treated volume or side was performed per protocol, clinically significant cancer was identified in a minority (<) of patients.122 124 However, comparative data comparing focal therapy to other treatment approaches, such as prostatectomy, radiotherapy, observation, or active surveillance, are lacking in the literature.118,125 The Panel recommends that if focal therapy or HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for intermediate risk prostate cancer, it should preferably be offered within the context of a clinical trial. HIGH RISK DISEASE High Risk: PSA >20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 4 5 OR clinical stage >T3 22. Clinicians should stage high risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Clinical Principle) Before widespread adoption of PSA screening, most incident prostate cancers were only diagnosed at an advanced stage. Treatment options such as surgery or radiation were believed only to benefit patients with localized disease, which necessitated an imaging evaluation to stage almost every patient prior to treatment. In the modern era, however, over of prostate cancers are localized, making the need for routine imaging to detect metastases with CT, MRI, or bone scan obsolete.126 Prior studies demonstrate that PSA <10 ng/ml has a negative predictive value of 99. for significant findings on bone scan, and < of patients with PSA < 20ng/ml have positive bone scans or CTs.127 131 In spite of these data and longstanding guidelines to curb imaging overuse, many patients still undergo improper imaging.126 Data is limited for other tests to detect distant metastases such as fluciclovine PET, total body MRI, NaF PET, choline/acetate PET, PSMA PET.132 Further research may establish the utility of these modalities, but likely only for high risk patients. Standard FDG PET is generally not a useful test in this setting.133 23. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus androgen deprivation therapy as standard treatment options for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Men with high risk disease are most likely to develop metastases and die from prostate cancer. There are two randomized prospective studies that support radical prostatectomy as treatment of high risk disease. The SPCG 4 trial compared radical prostatectomy and watchful waiting.96 At 15 years, all cause mortality favored radical prostatectomy (46. versus 52., American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 23 RR, 0.75; CI, 0.61 to 0.92), and prostate cancer specific mortality favored radical prostatectomy (14. versus 20., RR, 0.62; CI, 0.44 to 0.87). Although the PIVOT trial did not demonstrate an overall survival advantage with surgery, there was a significant difference in the rate of bone metastases at both the 10 year and 12 year follow up favoring radical prostatectomy treated patients.51 Furthermore, in men with high risk disease undergoing surgery, the rates of prostate cancer specific death was significantly lower, 9. compared to 17. for the observation arm. For radiotherapy and ADT, there are two types of studies that show efficacy. First, ADT and radiotherapy are superior to radiotherapy alone, and long term ADT is superior to short term ADT although the duration of long term ADT remains under investigation.134 136 Second, ADT and radiotherapy are superior to ADT alone and thus suggest that local therapy is important even among patients at high risk for subclinical metastatic disease.137,138 For high risk prostate cancer patients receiving external beam radiotherapy and ADT, brachytherapy boost (low dose rate or high dose rate) should be offered to eligible patients. 24. Clinicians should not recommend active surveillance for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. Watchful waiting should only be considered in asymptomatic men with limited life expectancy (≤5 years). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Localized high risk prostate cancer should be considered a life threatening disease. Albertsen et al. analyzed Connecticut Tumor Registry data of men with localized prostate cancer who were either not treated or treated with delayed ADT.139 Men with Gleason 8 10 tumors had a 60 chance of dying from prostate cancer within 15 years of diagnosis (age dependent). Thus watchful waiting for high risk prostate cancer should only be considered for asymptomatic men with limited life expectancy (<5 years). RCTs are of high quality, but results differ likely based on baseline patient characteristics.51,52,96 The PIVOT trial randomly assigned men with localized prostate cancer to prostatectomy or observation ( were high risk).51 For the total cohort at four years, there was no difference in death from prostate cancer. Prostate cancer mortality was lower for high risk patients in the prostatectomy cohort compared to observation (9. versus 17., p=0.04). In the SPCG 4 trial ( high risk) prostatectomy was associated with reduced mortality in all groups with the most benefit in the younger men (<65 years, relative risk 0.38). While randomized data is lacking comparing radiation to observation, in a population based cohort, prostate cancer specific mortality was higher with observation compared to radiation in the subset of men with high risk disease.140 Available data supports active intervention (rather than surveillance) in men with high risk disease unless a patient is expected to die from competing causes within five years. 25. Cryosurgery, focal therapy and HIFU treatments are not recommended for men with high risk localized prostate cancer outside of a clinical trial. (Expert Opinion) A randomized clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of cryosurgery in comparison to radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy for high risk localized prostate cancer is lacking. One randomized clinical trial demonstrating similar short term oncologic outcomes for EBRT versus cryosurgery has been reported for primarily intermediate risk disease patients.76 A small percentage had high risk features ( Gleason score ≥8, ≥ T3a, none with PSA > 20) but a subset analysis was not provided to support cryosurgery for high risk localized prostate cancer patients. Another randomized trial comparing outcomes of EBRT versus cryosurgery for primarily high risk or locally advance disease patients terminated early for lack of accrual and demonstrated inferior 8 year biochemical disease free recurrence rate for the cryosurgery ( versus ).141 Long term prospective randomized data of cryosurgery for men with high risk localized prostate cancer is lacking. There are no prospective randomized or comparative effectiveness data for HIFU versus traditional treatments available. Published five year oncologic outcomes for HIFU are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials of HIFU in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of high risk prostate cancer. There is no agreement defining the ideal patient for focal therapy. Consensus statements identify patients with low risk prostate cancer and an unequivocal solitary primary tumor who desire intervention as the ideal candidate for this investigational approach.118,124 Some investigators have expanded criteria to patients with intermediate risk disease and rarely high risk. However, comparative data comparing focal therapy to other treatment approaches for high risk prostate cancer, such as prostatectomy or radiotherapy, are American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 24 lacking in the literature. The Panel recommends that if cryosurgery, focal therapy or HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for high risk prostate cancer, it should only be done within the context of a clinical trial. 26. Clinicians should not recommend primary ADT for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer unless the patient has both limited life expectancy and local symptoms. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) A randomized prospective study comparing the androgen receptor inhibitor bicalutamide 150 mg to placebo found no significant difference in overall survival or prostate cancer specific survival in men with localized prostate cancer.142 Several large retrospective studies comparing primary ADT to no ADT failed to demonstrate improved long term overall or disease specific survival for men with localized prostate cancer.143 145 In one study, there was a slightly reduced risk of all cause mortality in a high risk subgroup treated with primary ADT,143 but in another study the small benefit was limited to prostate cancer specific survival and not overall survival in men with poorly differentiated cancer.144 The risks of serious adverse events associated with ADT and the high costs associated with its use outweigh the limited benefits, if any. Therefore, primary ADT should be used only to palliate symptoms of disease or prevent imminent symptoms associated with disease progression. 27. Clinicians may consider referral for genetic counseling for patients (and their families) with high risk localized prostate cancer and a strong family history of specific cancers (e.g., breast, ovarian, pancreatic, other gastrointestinal tumors, lymphoma). (Expert Opinion) The incidence of germline mutation in DNA repair genes in localized prostate cancer is low with estimates of BRCA2 in 1 ,146,147 and there have not been standard recommendations for genetic screening/counseling for prostate cancer patients. Recently it was reported that the incidence of somatic mutation of DNA repair genes (e.g., BRCA2, ATM) in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is .148 The incidence of germ line mutation of DNA repair genes in men with mCRPC is approximately .149 The mutations seen were BRCA2 (), ATM (), CHEK2 (), BRCA1 () and others (1 ). High Gleason score (8 10) and family history of cancer (breast, ovarian, pancreatic, other gastrointestinal, lymphoma) in first degree relatives was associated with germline DNA repair mutations in mCRPC patients. Young age and family history of prostate cancer was not associated with germline DNA repair mutations in the seven cohorts analyzed. Patients with localized prostate cancer who are at highest risk for developing mCRPC, may have a higher incidence of germline DNA repair mutations than expected from published reports: the incidence is to be determined but may approach 5 . The presence of germline DNA repair gene mutations has important implications for the prostate cancer patient in terms of general cancer screening and possible future prostate cancer treatment decisions. Additionally the presence of germline DNA repair mutations is of utmost relevance to the patient’s first degree family members due to increased cancer risk and screening implications. The Panel recommends that clinicians take detailed family history of cancers and give consideration to patient referral for genetic screening and counseling for men with localized high risk prostate cancer, particularly in the setting of family history of first degree relatives with cancers of breast, ovary, pancreas, other gastrointestinal cancers, and lymphoma. IV. RECOMMENDED APPROACHES AND DETAILS OF SPECIFIC CARE OPTIONS ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE 28. Localized prostate cancer patients who elect active surveillance should have accurate disease staging including systematic biopsy with ultrasound or MRI guided imaging. (Clinical Principle) The accuracy of initial prostate biopsy schemes depends on several factors. Sampling accuracy decreases progressively with increasing prostate volume.150 Furthermore, PSA, free/total PSA ratio (%fPSA), and DRE influence the detection rate. Substantial modifications from the original sextant approach have resulted in an extended biopsy scheme (defined as the traditional sextant template plus at least four and up to eight laterally directed samplings from the peripheral zone) as an initial diagnostic biopsy strategy.150 152 The 12 core biopsy scheme (sextant template plus laterally directed sampling from each sextant template) has become the most widely accepted method. Some practitioners also take a core from the anterior transition zone on each side since this is a common site for missed cancers.153 Extended biopsy has a significantly superior detection rate compared to sextant biopsy.154,155 The Vienna American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 25 nomogram suggested a minimum number of cores (range: 8 18) based on patient age and gland volume in the PSA 2 10 ng/ml range to ensure certainty of cancer detection.156 Most initial biopsy studies have shown that more than 12 15 cores is not beneficial.157,158 Current consensus supports a 10 to 12 core extended biopsy scheme, with additional cores from areas suspected by DRE, transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS), or MRI. Template Transperineal Saturation Biopsy: In an attempt to improve the detection of clinically significant cancers, transperineal template mapping techniques have been developed using an external 5 mm grid.159,160 In one study, 3D mapping biopsy was positive for cancer in only (144 of 180) of patients with previously proven cancer. Bilateral disease was demonstrated in , and were confirmed to have only unilateral disease. The false negative rate was , even with an aggressive transperineal technique in men who were known to be positive for cancer at initial biopsy. Detection of anterior cancer is enhanced using this technique.160 However, template based biopsy is significantly more resource intensive and invasive. Template biopsy also risks biopsy related morbidity, including a rate of urinary retention. Oversampling also increases the potential for diagnosing clinically insignificant cancer. Conformational changes occur during multiple needle passes, and template based biopsy can still involve real time sampling errors. It requires anesthesia and more pathology resources Therefore, the indications for a transperineal saturation template biopsy remain limited, but there may be a role. MRI targeted biopsy: The recent development of MRI imaging of prostate cancer promises to enhance the early identification of aggressive disease in men diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer who are candidates for surveillance. These men may benefit from an MRI and targeted biopsy; about can be expected to be upgraded. In several recent publications comparing targeted to template biopsies, about of men with a negative MRI had clinically significant cancer.161 163 The need for confirmatory biopsies in surveillance candidates with a negative MRI is controversial. This should likely depend on other risk factors, including PSA density, race, and the known volume of Gleason 6 cancer. Targeted biopsy can be performed using cognitive co registration, fusion targeted biopsy systems, or in bore MRI guided biopsies. Each of these has pros and cons. All three techniques are acceptable. Several small series have suggested that stable findings on mpMRI are associated with Gleason score stability.164 The appeal of serial MRI in men on surveillance is that it may allow a safe reduction in the frequency and number of follow up biopsies. However, the role of serial MRI for monitoring patients during surveillance has yet to be validated. An interval of wo years between MRIs in men on surveillance has been suggested by several authors.165 Value of DRE:166 In a prostate cancer screening study of 36,000 men, many cancers detected by DRE were clinically important in those with a PSA level <4.0 ng/ml. Six percent (n = 2,233) underwent radical prostatectomy, and 303 () were diagnosed by DRE alone. Of the cancers detected by DRE alone, 60 () were non organ confined, and 56 () had a Gleason score ≥7. Gleason score ≥7 cancers detected at PSA levels <1.0, 1.0 2.0, 2.0 3.0, and 3.0 4.0 ng/ml were present in , , , and of cases, respectively. In surveillance series, 3 of patients are identified as having progression based on DRE. While limited by the subjective nature of the examination, annual DRE remains an important part of the assessment of men on surveillance. 29. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should have routine surveillance PSA testing and digital rectal exams. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) For patients who elect active surveillance as a management approach, surveillance should include PSA testing and DRE in order to help identify patients who may consider active treatment. In the ProtecT trial, which showed similar survival with active surveillance versus radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy, trial subjects had regular PSA testing and DREs performed. While the optimal frequency of PSA and DRE has not been established, in ProtecT PSA testing was recommended every three months in year one, then three to six month subsequently with DRE performed during urology follow up visits.50 30. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should be encouraged to have a confirmatory biopsy within the initial two years and surveillance biopsies thereafter. (Clinical Principle) The published active surveillance literature includes 23 prospective studies. The largest 11 studies with extended follow up encompass approximately 5,000 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 26 men and are summarized in Table 5.7,66,167 175 The studies contain varying eligibility criteria. While each was designed to identify patients with favorable prognoses, and thus good candidates for active surveillance, the clinical criteria applied at different sites and in different studies vary. They each include early clinical stage, low serum PSA, and Gleason score consistent with well or moderately differentiated tumors. Beyond these three core components, many incorporate number and percentage of positive cores, extent of tumor involvement within a biopsy core, PSA density, and kinetics. PSA density has been recognized by many groups as a biomarker for higher risk disease. A PSA density of <0.15 is an indicator of a more benign phenotype and low volume disease. Although not universally accepted, several sites recommend repeat prostate biopsy before committing to active surveillance in order to identify patients where initial biopsies may have missed higher risk features. In most patients, delaying this biopsy for six months to a year is unlikely to have an impact on long term outcome, even if higher grade disease is later identified. Eligibility criteria heterogeneity reflects a different risk tolerance between investigators. For those centers with more inclusive criteria, the potential advantages of surveillance outweigh what is believed to be a small increased risk of metastasis occurring while being surveilled. In the ProtecT trial, in whom of randomized patients had intermediate or high risk cancer, there was a small increase in metastatic progression in the expectant management arm compared to those treated radically, but no difference in prostate cancer mortality. The increased progression rate likely reflected the inclusion of higher risk patients in the cohort.50 In contrast, other centers only include very low risk patients by NCCN guidelines (1 2 cores positive, < of core involvement, and PSA density <0.15). Several decision analyses suggest that it would require a substantial increase in prostate cancer mortality under surveillance compared to radical intervention before surveillance would lose the net benefit for low and intermediate risk groups.176 However, these analyses are limited by the uncertainty inherent in these models. Surveillance follow up strategies differ depending on study center. Although the key parameters available for monitoring include PSA, DRE, and repeat prostate biopsy, no group has defined the appropriate criteria to trigger active intervention or testing intervals. The probability that higher grade disease will be diagnosed on biopsy during active surveillance is 8 .177 This usually represents a higher grade component of the original tumor that was not originally sampled rather than evolution to higher grade disease. Biopsy intervals vary from one to five years. In the large scale PRIAS trial, men are prospectively followed on active surveillance and repeat prostate biopsies are scheduled at one, four, and seven years after the diagnostic biopsy.167 Current Cancer Care Ontario Guidelines,178 which have also been adopted by ASCO,179 are for PSA every 3 6 months, DRE each year, and systematic biopsies within 6 12 months after the diagnostic biopsy, and then every 3 5 years until the patient is ‘switched’ to watchful waiting. 31. Clinicians may consider multiparametric prostate MRI as a component of active surveillance for localized prostate cancer patients. (Expert Opinion) mpMRI of the prostate is a promising diagnostic test that may improve both selection of patients for and monitoring of patients on active surveillance.180 The literature reports a high negative predictive value (82 ) for the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer using mpMRI.181 A negative MRI thus may improve enrollment and long term outcomes for active surveillance candidates by ruling out the presence of occult lesions and confirming that presumed low risk disease is truly low risk. mpMRI may also improve retention of men in active surveillance programs by obviating the need for frequent repeat biopsies. Finally, MRI appears to be useful in detecting occult clinically significant disease among active surveillance candidates whose initial biopsy demonstrates only Gleason 6 disease. If it is employed, mpMRI should be performed on at minimum a 1.5 Tesla magnet MRI and include diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) with apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), T2 weighted (T2W) imaging, and dynamic intravenous contrast enhanced (DCE) imaging.93,181,182 The interpretation and reporting of mpMRI information should be performed by a radiologist experienced in the interpretation of prostate mpMRI and conform to the the guidelines described in the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI RADS) v2.183 It should be noted that MRI as a single modality is not able to detect all Gleason 7 or higher tumors, potentially exposing a small subset of men to delayed treatment of clinically significant cancer. The Panel does not recommend the use of mpMRI in place of prostate biopsy at this time. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright ©