with COVID-19 in the NYU Langone Health system. The NIH adapted the protocol for that study as the basis for the larger trial. “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice.” International Collaboration Accelerates Results Another NYU Langone researcher, , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, was named study chair of ACTIV-4A. As a leader of complex international clinical trials such as OAT SHOCK , Dr. Hochman is known for her skills at developing and harmonizing protocols and data analysis plans, as well as fostering cooperation among researchers around the world. In addition to coordinating the work of over two dozen U.S. institutions, ACTIV-4A has collaborated with two multinational consortiums—Antithrombotic Therapy to Ameliorate Complications of COVID-19 (ATTACC, based in Canada), and Randomized, Embedded, Multifactorial Adaptive Platform Trial for Community-Acquired Pneumonia (REMAP-CAP, based in the United Kingdom). “During a pandemic, you need global collaboration,” Dr. Hochman explains. “By working with these partners, we’ve been able to get powerful datasets much more quickly than anyone could have done alone.” “We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active.” An Evolving Investigation In August 2021, the ACTIV-4A investigators and their global partners published initial findings in the New England Journal of Medicine— a pair of reports on prophylactic versus therapeutic heparin in patients moderately ill critically ill with COVID-19 Full-dose heparin, the studies showed, improved survival and other outcomes in the former group, but not the latter. The effects in critically ill patients tended toward harm. The following month, researchers led by Dr. Berger and , assistant professor of medicine and pathology, published a paper in Science Advances describing several pathways by which platelets amplify endotheliopathy in COVID-19. Although the study was not part of ACTIV-4A, its findings would influence the course of that trial. We hypothesized that one reason patients with COVID-19 do badly is that their platelets are making the endothelium very active ,” Dr. Berger explains. “We wanted to find out how that happens.” The team, including Dr. Hochman, identified two genes that are upregulated in the platelets of patients with COVID-19, leading to overproduction of proteins associated with increased clotting and vascular inflammation. The researchers also reported that medications known to block platelet activation via the P2Y12 receptor reduced inflammation in vessels related to COVID-19. And they showed that platelets from patients with COVID-19 alter endothelial cells largely via P-selectin, a cell adhesion molecule. These findings spurred new lines of inquiry in ACTIV-4A, beginning with a clinical trial of P2Y12 inhibitors combined with therapeutic heparin in 562 patients moderately ill with COVID-19. Directions for Further Research In November, at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions, the ACTIV-4A investigators reported disappointing initial results: P2Y12 inhibitors failed to improve survival or disease severity in the moderately ill cohort. These results were recently published in Nonetheless, ACTIV-4A is continuing to test these drugs in critically ill patients. In addition, enrollment has begun for trials of a P-selectin inhibitor, crizanlizumab. Another new arm will test SGLT2 inhibitors, which have been shown to improve cardiovascular outcomes in diabetes by promoting endothelial integrity. ACTIV-4A has already had an impact, Dr. Hochman emphasizes. Many medical centers have stopped using therapeutic-dose heparin in hospitalized patients critically ill with COVID-19. In December, the American Society of Hematology issued draft guidelines recommending therapeutic heparin for inpatients with moderate illness. And in January, the NIH also updated its heparin guidelines to reflect the trial’s findings.  “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice. I’m confident that we will continue to do so going forward,” Dr. Hochman says. Stay-At-Home Orders Lead to Cardiovascular Consequences Am J Prev Cardiol . 2021 Dec; 8: 100282. An analysis published in the American Journal of Preventive Cardiology found women and people of racial and ethnic minority groups experienced a substantial worsening of their lipid profiles during the early stay-at-home orders brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Stay-at-home orders drastically altered dietary and exercise patterns for most people and may have even affected medication access and use, says senior author and preventive cardiologist To understand whether these public health measures affected cardiovascular risk, Dr. Heffron and colleagues compared nonHDL cholesterol levels in blood samples collected before and after the strict stay-at-home order in New York City. As a control for seasonality, they performed an identical comparison for the same time periods one year prior. Serial samples from more than 30,000 patients revealed a dramatic increase in nonHDL cholesterol levels (≥38 mg/dL), particularly among women and people from racial and ethnic minority groups. “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups.” “The pandemic and subsequent public health measures may have produced unintended negative consequences for already at-risk groups—exacerbating disparities in cardiovascular health and serving to highlight the tenuous position of particular populations,” the authors concluded. The results remained consistent even when the researchers restricted their analyses to people with unchanged lipid-lowering medication prescriptions across the observation periods. In total, more than half (55 percent) of the study population experienced increases in nonHDL-C levels during the stay-at-home order as compared to the same period in 2019. Complex Hernia Repair & Abdominal Wall Reconstruction Surgeons at NYU Langone’s Abdominal Core Health and Hernia Program are recognized leaders in the field of repair and abdominal wall reconstruction using the most advanced robotic surgical techniques. Our team specializes in repairing all types of hernia, including complex hernias and those that have recurred after a prior surgery. Learn more about our expertise in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction and the surgeons who perform these procedures. The abdominal wall is made up of the muscles and other connective tissue that wrap around your body like a wide band. It extends from the bottom of your breastbone, or sternum, to your pelvis. These vital muscles and tissue, which protect the organs in your abdomen by holding them in place, are essential to your overall stability, balance, and ability to lead an active life. The most common abdominal wall condition is a hernia, which occurs when fat, tissue, or part of an organ protrudes through a weakened area or hole in the muscles or connective tissue of the abdominal wall. Our team treats all types of hernias, including the following: umbilical hernias, which occur near the navel incisional hernias, which happen when part of an organ or tissue protrudes through an incision or scar from previous abdominal surgery inguinal and femoral hernias, which occur in the groin area NYU Langone surgeons care for people with hiatal and paraesophageal hernias—which occur when a portion of the stomach bulges through the diaphragm and into the chest cavity—at our In addition to repairing simple and complex hernias, we also treat the following abdominal wall conditions: diastasis recti, a separation of the abdominal muscles that can occur during pregnancy athletic pubalgia—sometimes incorrectly called athletic hernia—a weakening or tearing of muscles in the abdominal wall that results in groin pain benign or malignant tumors of the abdominal wall and muscles Our Focus on Abdominal Core Health We take a holistic approach to your treatment, with a personalized plan that focuses not only on your surgical care, but also on helping you regain and maximize strength in the muscles of your core. Our care begins with your initial visit and addresses every facet of your treatment—surgery and recovery, pain management and wound care—as well as physical therapy provided by our physical therapists. When appropriate, we consult and collaborate with experts in other medical and surgical specialties at NYU Langone, including bariatric and plastic surgery. Experts at the Abdominal Core Health Program are active in clinical trials that test new technologies for abdominal surgery and in research on ways to improve its outcomes. In addition, our program participates in the Abdominal Core Health Quality Collaborative national database, which tracks the outcomes of abdominal surgery at medical institutions around the country. Our skilled surgeons use advanced techniques to treat hernias and all other conditions affecting the abdominal wall. David K. Halpern Fareed Cheema Advanced Robotic & Foregut Surgeon to Lead General Surgery Dr. Flavio Malcher to Lead Abdominal Core Health Program Accelerating Telehealth Research for Cancer Care The recent COVID-19 pandemic required oncologists across the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system to adopt telehealth services. While this revealed benefits, there continue to be challenges, including access to devices as well as understanding how to use the technology. To address these barriers, NYU Langone Health’s has launched the Telehealth Research and Innovation for Veterans with Cancer (THRIVE) Center. The effort is supported by a prestigious $5 million grant from the National Cancer Institute’s Telehealth Research Centers of Excellence (TRACE) initiative Cancer Moonshot initiative “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services,” says , an associate professor of urology and population health at NYU Langone. “Many veterans, especially in rural areas, are potentially vulnerable to a digital divide in accessing telehealth services.” As part of the new initiative, Dr. Makarov and co-director , plan to study how social factors such as race and ethnicity, poverty, and rural residence impact the delivery of telehealth for cancer care. Examining Telehealth’s True Impact Established barriers to delivering efficient healthcare include geographical restrictions as well as long wait times. But just as telehealth has helped to minimize these roadblocks, its implementation has brought to light new hurdles. Some veterans, especially in rural areas, may have access to telehealth technology but have unreliable internet or cellular service, while others may have access but won’t adopt telehealth due to personal or cultural factors. Dr. Makarov believes more research is needed to understand how to engage these groups successfully, and he anticipates that such research could help to inform future policies on the use of this technology in veteran populations. Working in collaboration with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), the THRIVE Center will focus on examining telehealth’s role in delivering cancer-related healthcare, providing support for diverse teams of researchers to conduct large-scale trials in real-world clinical settings. “The VHA is one of the largest integrated healthcare providers, delivering medical care to more than 9 million veterans in the United States, which makes it an ideal study setting,” Dr. Makarov says. Building Health Equity into Telehealth Services In addition to developing innovative ways to use telehealth in cancer care, the THRIVE center will focus on identifying and addressing telehealth-related disparities among underserved populations, including rural residents, racial and ethnic minorities, older adults, people with low socioeconomic status, and those with poor digital literacy. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Health systems like NYU Langone, with a mission to serve diverse communities, have a responsibility to research and establish best practices for patients, Dr. Makarov says. “We anticipate the lessons learned from this evaluation of the VA telehealth system for cancer care can be adopted and integrated into other health systems,” Dr. Makarov explains. “This work will pave the way for having healthcare delivery look significantly different over the next five years.” Urology, Urologic Oncology Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. He also serves as co-leader of the Epidemiology and Cancer Control Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy An expert on this promising nonsurgical technique discusses research into benefits and best practices. Nationally renowned as an expert on prostate cancer and radical prostatectomy, , is now convinced of the promise of focal ablation—an evolving nonsurgical approach to treating prostate cancers. Here, he discusses what spurred his interest in focal therapy and how the robust prospective registry at is helping to define best practices. Pinpointing Sites of Clinically Significant Cancer Physician Focus: What advancements have helped the ield of focal therapy evolve? Dr. Lepor: Accurate localization of the sites of clinically significant prostate cancers is key to successful focal ablation. The work that was done here at NYU Langone Health in imaging and targeted biopsies really set the stage for the field of focal therapy. Historically, when urologists nationwide would do a biopsy of the prostate, we randomly inserted 12 needles into the gland. Ultrasound was our imaging platform at the time, and it does not provide information on where we should be focusing to detect cancer. When advancements in imaging came along, NYU Langone was one of the first centers to do MRI and later MRI–ultrasound fusion guided biopsy for prostate cancer. Once we were confident in our ability to reliably identify clinically significant cancer, we were ready to investigate focal therapy. What early research convinced you that focal therapy is a promising treatment option for prostate cancer? In 2018, we published a study in showing that MRI was extremely accurate at identifying index tumors, or the tumors likely to grow and metastasize. Of 59 patients who underwent radical prostatectomy and who were also potential candidates for focal therapy, only a small proportion of low-volume cancers would have been missed if those patients had received focal therapy. For me, that was the first study that confirmed that if we can reliably destroy the index cancer, then it would be safe to follow the rest of the prostate for the development of significant disease. A Favorable Approach What patient groups are best suited for focal therapy and how many of your patients choose this treatment approach? We are treating patients with clinically localized, intermediate-risk prostate cancer who would also be candidates for whole gland treatment. If a patient has low-risk cancer, we’re likely not going to use focal therapy since these men are best managed with active surveillance. Maybe 30 percent of the patients referred to me with prostate cancer are candidates for focal therapy, and when I give them the option, two-thirds choose focal therapy and one-third choose radical prostatectomy. There are many reasons for this, including the fact that focal therapy is an outpatient procedure, it doesn’t require hormone therapy, and we’ve never had a patient report incontinence. While focal therapy can affect sexual function, it is much less than with a surgical procedure, even with a nerve-sparing surgical procedure. In addition, if the cancer recurs, we still have every option available to us—we can do radiation therapy, remove the prostate, or do another focal ablation. Establishing Best Practices At NYU Langone, urologists no longer recommend a six-month MRI or biopsy following focal ablation. What led to this decision to defer early follow-up? We already have a robust prospective database of roughly 400 patients that have undergone focal therapy at our center. Using that database, Dr. James S. Wysock and I recently published a study in Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases reporting that at six-month follow-up, when we aggressively biopsied for in-field disease, we detected residual cancer in only 2 percent of patients. In other words, we succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients. Therefore, at our high-volume center with our expertise and stringent patient selection, a six-month follow-up is not necessary. “We succeeded in destroying the index cancer in 98 percent of cases, confirming that focal ablation is an excellent treatment option for a subset of patients.” We’re now assessing whether follow-up biopsy is necessary at two years, which to my knowledge, no series has ever assessed oncological outcomes from mandatory two-year biopsy. A Commitment to Follow-Up You’ve mentioned a need for thorough commitment from both the patient and the provider regarding follow-up after focal therapy. Can you elaborate? This is really important. In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up. With focal therapy, there is a real chance of leaving cancer behind or cancer recurring because the majority of the prostate is untreated. But if we find any residual disease early, then we have all those salvage options available—focal ablation, radiation, and surgery. If the patient doesn’t come back for five years, that may give too much of a lead time for that residual cancer to become a big problem. “In my opinion, the greatest risk to focal therapy is patients not coming back for their follow-up.” Of course, getting patients to come in for follow-up can be a challenge. We are trying to minimize this burden on patients by determining how long follow-up can be safely deferred, or identifying the subset of patients that can defer early follow-up. Assessing Sexual Health After Partial Gland Cryoablation Herbert Lepor, MD, and James S. Wysock, MD Given the limitations associated with radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy, partial gland cryoablation (PGCA) has gained an increased role in patients with low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer. For those patients who choose PGCA to minimize quality of life adverse events, it is essential to set realistic expectations for sexual function after treatment. recent study published in , urologic oncologists , examined sexual function following primary PGCA over a two-year period to help providers have more informed discussions with patients concerning erectile function. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” “Our study uniquely stratifies sexual function outcomes according to baseline erectile function and examines factors associated with reduced sexual function,” says Dr. Wysock. “While all treatments for localized prostate cancer must balance oncological and functional outcomes, we hope this research equips providers with key information to better discuss expectations around sexual function following PGCA.” Evaluating Functional Outcomes In March 2017, the researchers initiated a prospective outcomes registry that captures both oncological and functional outcomes following PGCA. For the present study, they identified men who met the following eligibility criteria: a PIRADS 2-5 lesion concordant with unilateral GGG 1-3 disease, no gross extra-prostatic extension on multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), GGG >1 contralateral to the region of interest, or distal apical disease on mpMRI. In total, 106 patients met inclusion criteria and they completed the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) scale at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months. The ability to sustain erection (also known as “potency”) was defined as a score of 3 or greater on question 2 of the SHIM index, after which they measured median SHIM scores and the proportion of men reporting “potency” at baseline, 6 months, and 24 months, and compared erectile function at these respective timepoints. Erectile Function Improves Over Time The results showed a statistically significant decrease in SHIM scores between baseline and 6 months, and baseline and 24 months, for the entire cohort and for all subgroups stratified according to baseline erectile dysfunction (ED) severity. However, significant improvements in median SHIM scores were observed between 6 and 24 months for men with no ED or mild ED at baseline. In addition, for men with no ED at baseline, 93 percent regained potency at 24 months. “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.” “These sexual function outcomes following PGCA are far superior to those achieved following radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy,” says Dr. Lepor. “Many of my patients choose to undergo PGCA over radical prostatectomy due to superior quality of life outcomes.” Questions Still Remain In order to further optimize sexual function outcomes, initiating PDE5 inhibitors immediately after PGCA may be a reasonable strategy, adds Dr. Wysock. According to Dr. Lepor, all treatments for prostate cancer must balance oncological control and functional outcomes, noting that the three-year oncological outcomes are currently under review, with early observations suggesting that these encouraging sexual function outcomes are achieved equally with strong oncological outcomes. In future studies, the researchers will continue to evaluate whether PGCA preserves quality of life while maintaining long-term disease control. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 A study of New York City mothers enrolled in the NYU Children’s Health and Environment Study (NYU CHES) suggested the early months of the pandemic resulted in fewer women planning or attempting to become pregnant, which may have long-term effects on fertility rates. In the cross-sectional study of 1,179 mothers, published in JAMA Network Open , nearly half of women who had been trying to become pregnant reported that they had ceased attempting to conceive in the first few months of the city’s initial COVID-19 wave in April 2020. More than a third who had been contemplating trying for pregnancy pre-COVID reported they were no longer considering it. Further, fewer than half those women who ceased trying to become pregnant thought they would resume trying after the pandemic. Though early evidence drawn from vital statistics data has demonstrated a steeper decline in U.S. births since the onset of the pandemic, this is the first epidemiologic study of U.S. women in an area heavily impacted by COVID-19. Impact on Decision-making The pandemic appears to have exacerbated existing social and financial pressures that were already negatively impacting pregnancy intention and, consequently, the U.S. birth rate. The study’s findings indicated that women with higher stress levels, lower education, and greater financial insecurity were more likely to cease trying or planning to become pregnant. “Women’s decision-making when it comes to building families tends to track closely with financial and social dynamics,” notes Linda G. Kahn, PhD, MPH , assistant professor in pediatrics and population health. “The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed underlying weaknesses in our social support system for women and families, and appears to be accelerating a decline in the U.S. birth rate that began with the 2008 recession.” More Research Opportunities One of NYU Langone’s largest National Institutes of Health-funded studies, the NYU CHES database contains bio samples and exposure data from more than 3,500 New York City women enrolled during the first trimester of pregnancy. The cohort represents a diverse cross-section of race, ethnicity, education, and incomes. Data gathered are used to examine environmental impacts on pregnant women and their children. “It would be interesting to investigate whether similar declines in pregnancy intention followed outbreaks in other ‘hotspots’ across the nation, as well as whether the availability of vaccination has moderated this response.” According to Dr. Kahn and co-author , clinical associate professor in obstetrics and gynecology and site director for the Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn, geographic information in the database affords unique research opportunities. Considerations for Pregnancy Delay In addition to the broader economic and social ramifications of a declining birth rate in conjunction with an aging population, postponing pregnancy has consequences on the individual level. Older women may require costly fertility treatments when they are ready to conceive, an option that is out of reach for many and one that is not without risks to women and infants, the researchers say. “Delaying childbearing creates several downstream clinical risks for women, including pregnancy complications such as hypertension and cardiovascular conditions associated with advanced maternal age and fertility treatments,” notes Dr. Mehta-Lee. “Assisted reproduction is not always the panacea patients assume it is, so we need to keep these factors in mind when counseling patients about their ability to have children later in life.” Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD Linda G. Kahn, MPH, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Departments of Pediatrics and Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her research interests include the role of preconception and prenatal environmental exposures in pregnancy and postpartum maternal health; predictors of male and female reproductive development and fertility; and health outcomes of assisted reproduction in both women and children. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Dr. Herbert Lepor spotlights one of the 298 cases included in the landmark prospective study. Over the past decade, we have utilized laser, radio frequency, electroporation, high-intensity focused energy, and cryo-therapy at NYU Langone Health to ablate focal disease. Currently, the overwhelming majority of focal therapies (FTs) at NYU Langone are performed using cryo-therapy because of its superior oncological outcomes. Men undergoing FTs are at risk for developing in-field, out-of-field, or metastatic disease recurrences. In-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to completely eradicate the index focal lesion. Out-of-field disease recurrence develops due to failure to detect co-existing clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa), or the development of csPCa in the untreated gland. Metastatic disease develops due to pre-existing metastasis or the development of metastasis arising from local recurrences. In 2017, with , I initiated an IRB-approved prospective study to rigorously assess functional and oncological outcomes following primary partial gland cryoablation (PPGCA). Our published experience to date has demonstrated the following: the ability to reliably ablate the index lesion a low rate of in- and out-of-field disease recurrence at three years no urinary incontinence or rectal injuries an improvement in lower urinary symptoms less adverse impact on sexual function than radical prostatectomy (RP) We are presenting our five-year oncological outcomes on May 5, 2024, at the American Urological Association (AUA) Annual Meeting. The following case features one of the 298 subjects who met the eligibility criteria for this study. [See the results from the five-year study here The patient, in his mid-50s at the time of initial presentation in 2018, had a progressively rising PSA level—to 4.4 ng/ml—and a benign digital rectal exam (DRE). He underwent a multiparametric MRI (mpMRI), which showed a 10×5-mm Prostate Imaging–Reporting and Data System (PI-RADS) 4 region of interest in the left medial apical peripheral zone. An MRI targeted, 12 cores systematic biopsy (SB) demonstrated multiple Gleason Grade Group (GGG) 1 and 2 cancers in the targeted and left SB. We discussed RP, radiation therapy (RT), and FT for managing his focal intermediate risk prostate cancer. Preserving erectile and urinary function and avoiding androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) were the primary factors leading to a shared decision to proceed with PPGCA. The PPGCA was performed shortly thereafter under general anesthesia using four cryo-probes. The patient was discharged by early afternoon the same day, and the Foley catheter was removed three days post-operatively. The patient returned to unrestricted activities immediately after catheter removal. He never experienced any level of incontinence. The patient was one of our early PPGCA cases, and the surveillance protocol was the following: • PSA every six months • DRE annually • mpMRI at six months, then at two years, three years six months, and five years; a protocol biopsy, which included sampling the prior MRI target, and any new in- or out-of-field regions of interest suspicious for prostate cancer, and 12 SB. This table summarizes the functional and oncological outcomes at six months and five years post-treatment. Outcome Six-Month Results Five-Year Results IPSS SHIM 23 Semen Volume Markedly reduced Climacturia PSA (ng/mL) 0.81 1.2 mpMRI Left PIRADS 4 lesion no longer identified, replaced by an ablation cavity. PIRADS 1 atrophy of the left lobe, no evidence of in- or out-of-field disease. Biopsy Results Ablation cavity and 6 left SB showed only treatment effect. Benign The patient’s future surveillance protocol will be the following: • MRI at seven years six months, and 10 years • protocol biopsy at 10 years • for-cause biopsy as clinically indicated I have offered and performed FTs since 2012 based on the following observations and assumptions • the aggressiveness of prostate cancer, typically defined by an index tumor • MRI identifies the index cancer in candidates for PGA • candidates for FTs rarely have significant prostate cancer outside the ablation zone • majority of men undergoing RP do not have prostate cancer or metastasis-free survival compared to watchful waiting (WW) • low-risk and select cases of intermediate-low-risk disease candidates for active surveillance (AS) • PGA reliably destroys in-field prostate cancer • preserving quality of life is a high priority for men with clinically localized cancer There are many energy sources commercially available to ablate prostate cancer. Cryo-therapy is the most versatile energy source and, in our hands, achieves the highest level of oncological control, which is further supported by our five-year outcomes. A limitation of high-intensity-focused ultrasound (HIFU) is its inability to treat anterior tumors or glands with significant calcifications. We believe the inferior oncological outcomes of HIFU are attributed to failure to achieve confluence of energy in the ablative field, which may be rectified by delivering a second treatment as we do with cryoablation. The advantage of HIFU over cryoablation is the ability to develop a more precise treatment plan. If double treatment overcomes the inferior in-field recurrence rates, HIFU may become our preferred energy source for small peripheral zone lesions that abut the neurovascular bundle, or those immediately underneath the prostatic urethra. Our five-year oncological outcomes emphasize the need for active surveillance post-FT. Many of the csPCa recurrent cancers are low-volume Gleason pattern 4, which are amenable to AS based on the PROTECT trial. A salvage ablation is performed for the majority of in- and out-of-field csPCa recurrences requiring intervention. The majority of cases requiring whole-gland salvage treatment are managed with salvage RT. While the literature indicates salvage RP is safely performed, we believe it is slightly more technically challenging due to the peri-prostatic fibrosis. Unlike salvage RP after radiation therapy, surgical planes are often readily achieved contralateral to the ablation, which facilitates mobilization of the prostate. In our experience, over two-thirds of men with “focal” intermediate-risk disease will elect FTs over whole-gland treatments. Our patients make an informed decision based on my published functional and oncological outcomes for both RP and FT. The factors influencing the decision to elect FT are: • availability as an outpatient procedure, with expedited return to work and activities • avoidance of ADT • no cases of incontinence or rectal injury • a less significant impact on sexual function We now counsel patients with intermediate-risk disease that at five years, they have a 91 percent chance of avoiding the morbidity of whole-gland interventions, while the other nine percent undergo salvage treatments without greater risk than primary intervention. In 2012, I was confident that FTs would emerge as a reasonable option for intermediate risk disease, especially when preserving quality of life is a high priority. After a decade of critically evaluating both functional and oncological outcomes following FTs, and specifically cryo-therapy, we feel this option should be presented to men with focal intermediate risk disease. 1.           Wysock et al. (2021). Early oncological control following partial gland cryo-ablation: a prospective experience specifying reflex MRI-guided biopsy of the ablation zone. 2.           Wysock et al. (2023). Biopsy assessment of oncologic control 3 years following primary partial gland cryoablation: a prospective cohort study of men with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. The Journal of Urology 3.           Thakker et al. (2022). Early functional outcomes following partial gland cryo-ablation. 4.           Wysock et al. (2022). Two-year functional outcomes stratified according to baseline erectile function following partial gland cryo-ablation. 5.           Kenigsberg et al. (2018). The use of magnetic resonance imaging to predict oncological control among candidates for focal ablation of prostate cancer. Neurological Impacts of Long COVID: Finding Pathways Toward Treatment Jennifer Frontera, MD, and Andrea Troxel, ScD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff , a neurocritical care expert, and biostatistician , are leading NYU Langone Health’s participation in the NIH-funded COVID-19 NeuroDatabank and NeuroBiobank initiatives to centralize and expand availability of post-COVID neurological data. The initiatives offer access to aggregate outcomes information that could help researchers reveal the pathological mechanisms behind post-COVID neurological symptoms that impact some patients long after infection. The Heterogeneous Symptoms of “Long COVID” By now, we know that COVID-19 and post-COVID syndrome—“long COVID”—are frequently accompanied by neurological symptoms. What have we learned so far about the connection? Dr. Frontera: We’ve learned a lot in two years, but we’re still working to fully tease out the constellation of neurological sequelae in severe COVID and post-COVID syndrome, defined by persistent symptoms at least four weeks following infection onset. These post-acute symptoms are notably heterogenous, spanning everything from fatigue, depression, and , to brain fog, headache and dizziness. We’ve even found biomarkers in a subset of patients with COVID that we typically see in patients with Alzheimer’s disease, possibly due to brain injury triggered by inflammation. As we continue to gather patient data over time, we’re now working to better understand the specific mechanisms that would better define a post-COVID neurological syndrome. Symptoms Linger After Severe Disease What have you observed from that data in terms of improvement of COVID-related neurological symptoms over time? Dr. Troxel: In a recent study, we tracked outcomes data from patients at six and 12 months into their recovery. Notably, at 12 months post-hospitalization, we found that cognitive symptoms persisted in half of patients and nearly 90 percent had abnormal functional, cognitive, or Neuro-QoL metrics for anxiety, depression, fatigue, and sleep. We did find an improvement in patients’ cognitive and anxiety scores between the six and 12-month milestones. It’s not clear whether these results are generalizable to those patients who have more mild or moderate COVID cases. We’ve also seen that the omicron variant appears less likely to result in persistent neurological symptoms, specifically hypoxia and sepsis. Those are the types of findings we’re still working to tease out. Gathering Data to Better Target Treatment How does the NIH COVID-19 NeuroDatabank project fit in with those efforts? The databank was launched to develop a pool of COVID-related neurological data that is more granular than what we could glean from electronic health records alone. NYU Langone is one of 10 national sites contributing data, and as the one-time epicenter of the pandemic in New York City, we are an anchor of the database with the largest data component. The goal is to expand our understanding of neurologic phenotypes, risk factors, socioeconomic factors, and therapeutic responses among patients with COVID-related neurological syndromes. Data in the NeuroDatabank will also be compared with a NeuroBiobank created with clinically collected samples from these patients to align clinical findings with biological markers. Through another NIH-funded project, the RECOVER initiative , we’re also studying autopsy data to better understand the mechanisms of neurological inflammation in acute COVID—for example, whether it is caused by a breakdown of the blood–brain barrier. How do you hope this data will help inform treatment strategies going forward in patients with COVID-associated neurological sequelae? “The rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms.” We found that when physicians took a holistic approach to patient management, including addressing neuropsychiatric symptoms of anxiety, depression, and fatigue along with headache and cognitive symptoms, that most