drawings. PM to confirm with the GC/CM. 24. Do not locate IT room HVAC equipment in ceilings of the rooms. Locate outside the rooms and duct in. Or use a split system and hang the evaporator on the wall and drain outside the room. 25. Use only concealed sprinkler heads, not recessed. 26. Specify tamperproof receptacles in all waiting rooms, regardless of the clinical function of the practice. 27. For laboratory equipment rooms, provide exhaust registers directly above heat generating equipment. 28. Include UL approved pass thru sleeves for future use in all smoke/fire partitions to prevent non firestopped penetrations resulting from future cable pulls. 29. Thought must be given to redundancy for critical MEP systems. If a system loss will result in compromised patient safety or revenue loss to the institution, redundant systems need to be included in the design (i.e. emergency power, UPS, etc.) 30. DO NOT USE USG Sheetrock Acoustical Sealant at medical gas copper pipe penetrations. It corrodes the pipes. Use an alternate. 31. Include Hands on Training for maintenance staff for all MEP equipment. In the Manhattan main campus, two training sessions shall be provided, one early in the morning and one at night. For off site locations, contact RED+F for amount of sessions. 32. Indicate on drawings where high point vents and drains shall be required on pipework. 33. For phased projects that may have multiple contractors of the same trade, ensure that submitted equipment and components remain consistent throughout the project (i.e. same manufacturer, same model, etc.). 34. If existing services are to remain in a renovated space, those existing services are to be brought up to NYU Langone current standards. 35. Piping taps for pressure sensing devices shall be top tap only. Side or bottom taps are not allowed. 36. Medical gas takeoffs from riser shall be full size throughout floor loop. The piping size shall not be reduced on a floor loop. Takeoffs from floor loops shall be sized adequately. 37. Vacuum risers shall be full size. Do not reduce size at end of riser. 38. Pipe sleeves shall be provided for all piping wall penetrations NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines GENERAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 416 2024 39. Mechanical and plumbing piping shall be secured down with brackets or provided with saddles under the insulation 40. Provide means of hoisting equipment from floor to working level if maintainable equipment is above 6 feet above finished floor. Means of hoisting can include trolley I beams, eye hooks, winches, etc. 41. Balancing valves shall not be used as shutoff valves. Provide dedicated shutoff valve for system/equipment isolation. 42. Low voltage cable located in mechanical, electrical or equipment rooms shall be in conduit. Free air is not allowed. 43. Rooftop equipment that has access doors/areas that are above 34 feet above final roof line shall have dunnage installed around the entire unit per OSHA general industry standard fall exposure. Service platforms / catwalks shall be installed with a staircase. 44. Any rooftop equipment that is within 6 feet of the edge of a roof that has no parapet wall shall have guardrails. 45. All rooftop equipment shall have proper lighting, service outlets and hose bibs (with roof drains) for cleaning purposes. 46. Be sure that room numbering adheres to the final Room Numbering Plan issued by RED+F’s Space Planning and Management group. Device schedules need to match for Fire Alarm Programming. 47. Different trades shall not use same kindorf for support. Each trade shall have their own hanging apparatus. 48. Bottom taps on open hydronic systems are not permitted. 49. New mechanical rooms shall have flooring and walls up to 8” from floor waterproofed. Refer to architectural guidelines for further details as well as flood testing. 50. No wet piping to be routed through electrical room. Only pipes serving room dedicated equipment shall be permissible. These pipes will require drip pans and alarms. 51. Snow melt systems shall be considered for safe access to all rooftop equipment. 52. In real estate properties, provide means of heat dissipation of ceiling plenum cavity should permanent mechanical cooling equipment fail. This is required for hot air discharge of portable air conditioning units. This requirement only applies if the permanent mechanical cooling systems are not designed to N+1. 53. No wet piping to be routed through electrical room. Only pipes for equipment serving the electrical room are permissible. All piping in electrical rooms require drip pans and BMS alarms. 54. For off site locations that are managed by the NYULH Real Estate Portfolio team, include artificial intelligence leak detection systems to prevent catastrophic floods. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines GENERAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 417 2024 This technology shall analyze the typical usage of a water system and automatically close valves should an anomaly be detected. An instantaneous alarm shall be sent to the managers of said site. The AI type technology can be done through the BMS vendor or part of a separate system such as WINT. The technology shall not be used on the main water line nor shall it be used on a critical water line such as city water backup to an MRI. 55. All refrigerant piping shall be brazed. Press fittings are not allowed for refrigerant piping. 56. Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals. Dielectric unions are not allowed. Dielectric nipple location options of common installs based on material are shown below. The first bullet is the supply side from riser while second bullet of each option is the return side to the riser. Bronze Option: • Steel Bronze Dielectric Nipple Copper o Copper Dielectric Nipple Bronze Steel Brass Option: • Steel Dielectric Nipple Brass Copper o Copper Brass Dielectric Nipple Steel END OF GENERAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 418 2024 2. MECHANICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Mechanical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, and all other applicable Codes. Comply with all current New York City Building Codes, Joint Commission Standards, National Institutes of Health and all authorities having jurisdiction and applicable national, state and local codes, laws and regulations governing or relating to any portion of this work. Laboratory and Hospital environmental conditions, air filtration, air change rates and pressurization relationships will shall be in accordance with the requirements set forth in American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), American Institute of Architects (AIA), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and all other applicable governmental Codes. If any design standard within this document contradicts codes or regulations, the design engineer shall notify NYU Langone Health. B. Design Criteria I. Chilled Water a. General Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperatures: 45°F/57°F i. Manhattan Main campus primary chilled water shall be designed with a 48°F entering chilled water temperature b. Operating Room Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperatures: Contact Facilities Operations for proper values. c. If Chilled Water will be decoupled from main campusloop, Chilled Water system with a heat exchanger, higher design temperatures shall be used and approved by Facilities Operations d. 2 way control valves shall be used II. Condenser Water (campus) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 85°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 95°F c. 2 way control valves shall be used III. Condenser Water (process) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 80°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 90°F NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 419 2024 IV. Steam a. Working pressure of steam is 1) LPS 5 psi 2) MPS 25 80 psi 3) HPS operating: 150 180 psi, maximum: 200 psi 4) HHPS 600 psi b. On the Manhattan main campus, Cclean steam generation shall be used for humidification and for direct injection sterilization. V. Perimeter Heating a. Non potable hot water shall be designed to an Outside Air Temperature reset control scheme. VI. Outside Design Conditions a. The mechanical systems shall be selected to serve a facility as specified within the New York City local Building Code. VII. Internal Design Conditions a. Offices, Conference Rooms, Classrooms, Student Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68 74°F D.B. b) Cooling: 68 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Conference rooms, libraries, study halls and similar spaces shall have CO2 monitoring and demand ventilation control. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): 15 of design. Control shall be on a room by room basis with a local over ride at the respective temperature sensor. b. Laboratories, Lab Support Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68°F D.B. with a minimum of R.H ± b) Cooling: 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Air Change Rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instance shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): pressurization shall be maintained with reduced airflow. Methodology shall be reviewed with facilities operation prior to design. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 420 2024 d) Air Change rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instances shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. c. Health Care Facility Areas 1) Operating Rooms: 68 78°F D.B. depending on function of Operating Room. Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user. Minimum of R.H. and maximum of R.H. a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. 2) All other Health Care Facility Areas shall be designed to the data listed within the latest edition of the FGI Guidelines and ASHRAE 170 Ventilation for Health Care Facilities. 3) Procedure Rooms/Isolation Rooms/Protected Environment Rooms a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user c) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. d. Vivarium and Support Areas The data within this subsection shall be superseded by the most current version of NIH Guidelines. All temperature conditions shall be reviewed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. The final design shall be confirmed by all parties. 1) Unoccupied Setback: a) Areas with animal habitats shall not be allowed a temperature or airflow setback. b) Any rooms that are designed with an unoccupied schedule shall be confirmed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. e. Electrical Closets 1) Ventilated to 80°F D.B. average, 85°F D.B. maximum. f. Switchgear Rooms 1) Air Conditioned to 78°F D.B. The design shall be an N+1 configuration. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 421 2024 g. Communication ClosetsTechnology spaces (IDF/BDF/TER) 1) BDF shall have two separate sources of cooling (example one unit on building chilled water and other unit on air cooled DX) 1)2) Heating: 65°F D.B. minimum (if room is on perimeter of building) Cooling: 78°F D.B. average, 83°F D.B. maximum. h. Storage/mechanical areas: 1) Ventilated i. Elevator machine rooms: 1) Air conditioned to 78°F dry bulb minimum. j. Sterilizers: Calculation for heat gain from a sterilizer shall be the skin loss of the sterilizer plus cooling load required during cooling of cleaned/sterilized items. Engineers shall note on a design drawing what the skin loss of the sterilizer is as well as what the cooling load for sterilized/cleaned items is. k. Toilets: Ventilate to New York City local Mechanical Code requirement. VIII. Internal Load Criteria Refer to ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. IX. Lighting and Equipment Heat Gains a. Base design on data listed within ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. X. Hours of Operation a. Offices: 12hrs/day, 5 days/week b. Laboratories/Support Areas: case by case basis to be discussed with end user. c. Health Care Facility/Support Areas: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week d. Vivarium: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 422 2024 C. Mechanical Naming Convention I. Equipment Naming Scheme Example: AHU TH 1 2 AHU TH 1 2 Unit Type Building Name (Location of Unit) Floor # Unit # AC Air Conditioning Unit (cooling only) ALH Alumni Hall ACB Active Chilled Beams BRK Brooklyn Lutheran ACC Air Cooled Condenser BRG Berg ACCH Air Cooled Chiller EB Energy Building AF Air Filter GBH Greenberg Hall AHU Air Handling Unit HCC Health Care Center B Boiler KP Kimmel Pavilion CAV Constant Air Volume Unit MSB Medical Science Building CH Chiller SB Science Building CP Condensate Pump SKB Skirball CSG Clean Steam Generator SRC Smilow Research Center CT Cooling Tower TH Tisch Hospital CWP Condenser Water Pump ET Expansion Tank For all offsite locations, confirm EX Exhaust Fan Building name with RED+F FCU Fan Coil Unit Space Planning division. FOP Fuel Oil Pump GX General Exhaust Fan HWP Hot Water Pump KEF Kitchen Exhaust Fan PCHP Primary CHW Pump PFHX Plate and Frame Heat Exchanger PRV Pressure Reducing Station RAF Return Fan SAF Supply Fan SCHP Secondary CHW Pump STHX Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger SX Smoke Exhaust Fan TX Toilet Exhaust Fan UH Unit Heater VAVS Variable Air Volume Supply Box VAVR Variable Air Volume Return Box VAVX Variable Air Volume Exhaust Box VFD Variable Frequency Drive WSHP Water Source Heat Pump NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 423 2024 *NOTE: for renovation projects the engineer shall inquire what the existing labelling scheme is on the floor and continue with the last number using the labeling scheme above. Example: if the floor has VAV’s on the 2nd floor of MSB labelled as VAV 1 through VAV 11, engineer shall start new labeling as VAVS MSB 2 12 II. FSD/FD labeling scheme: Example: HCC 1 FD 2 D. Various I. Testing and Balancing a. Aeroseal shall not be used to seal new ductwork. Aeroseal may be used only in existing inaccessible exhaust risers with proven air leakage. The use of Aeroseal on any other type of ductwork shall not be used unless discussed and approved by NYULH Facilities. b. Duct foil tape is not allowed to be used to seal ductwork. a.c. Only duct mastic is allowed for sealing ducts. b.d. All projects shall have a TAB baseline taken of space prior to design/demo to confirm existing conditions. c.e. All Testing and Balancing values shall be within / + of design values on a per outlet basis. d.f. Duct Leakage Testing Standards: Duct ClassPressureSeal ClassLeakage ClassMedium Pressure Horizontal3” 6” A4Medium Pressure Risers3” 6” A4Low Pressure2” and belowA6*Note: Low Pressure testing only applicable to sections greater than 100 square feet of duct surface area. Low pressure testing is not applicable for VRF designs. g. All hydronic piping shall be hydrostatically tested to 1.5 working pressure but not less than 100psi for a minimum of 2 hours. Temperature readings of the piping being tested shall be taken prior to the test and at the conclusion of the test. All tests to be witnessed by owner. h. Refer to Water Treatment/Cleaning section for further requirements for pipe flushing. e.i. Permanent bypasses shall not be designed or installed. Install two shut off valves with hose attachment for flushing purposes. Include requirement in Testing and Balancing section for a flushing procedure to indicate the location of all hose bypasses or permanent piped bypasses on a drawing and attached to the report. After flushing is completed there shall be a sign off sheet indicating the flushing contractor, CM/GC and the CxA have walked every bypass location and HCC 1 FD 2 See building labeling scheme Floor #FD Fire DamperFSD #in previous tableFSD Fire Smoke DamperSD Smoke DamperNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 424 2024 confirmed the hose has been removed and the valves are closed. This sign off sheet shall also be attached to the report. f.j. All refrigerant piping shall be tested per the following: Pressure Testing for leaks • Charge system with regulated dry nitrogen and the appropriate tracer gas to pressure defined by engineer of record (EOR) or Manufacturer. • Branches may be tested in segments to reduce the time needed to locate leaks. However, for the final test, entire system must be tested as one. • When all leaks have been repaired and sections have been retested, the system must stand, unaltered, for 24 hours with no more than a +/ 1 pound pressure change. • If system does not drop below specified pressure within 24 hours, the system is then ready to be evacuated. Evacuation Procedure • Pull a system vacuum down to at least 1000 microns (+/ 50 microns) and close the vacuum header valves. If the system cannot pull a vacuum at any step and returns to atmospheric pressure, which is an indication of a leak, test for and repair the leak using the previously described procedure with tracer gas. • If the 1000 micron vacuum holds for 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), break the vacuum with dry nitrogen to a pressure of 2 psig • Install system suction and liquid drier cores. • Pull a second vacuum to a minimum of 500 microns and hold for 30 minutes. • Close vacuum header valves. • If the 500 micron vacuum holds for a minimum of 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), then break the vacuum with the refrigerant to be used in the system to a pressure of 2 psig. • Pull a third vacuum to a minimum of 300 microns (+/ 50 microns). • Close vacuum header valves and allow system to stand for a minimum of 24 hours k. All pressure sensitive rooms shall have pressure relationship between room and outside space shown on report. l. System Static and Differential Pressure setpoints shall be set by the TAB contractor and indicated on the TAB report. These values shall be provided to the BMS contractor to input into the BMS. g.m. Spaces that are pressure sensitive but do not have a required pressure value (i.e. soiled utility closets) a value of 0.003” or 0.003” shall be required. h.n. Pressure sensitive rooms shall be tested prior to ceiling being installed to confirm design pressure relationships between pressurized room and adjacent spaces. i.o. Article 28 space balancing reports shall show pressure in and pressure out per FGI Guidelines. j.p. Balancing reports for any rooms designed to be positive or negative pressure must include the room’s pressure on the report. Report cannot be approved unless .01”wc/.01”wc is obtained while also meeting design flow CFM +/ or +. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 425 2024 k.q. Testing and Balancing contractors shall be NEBB, TABB or AABC certified. Non certified TAB contractors are not allowed. II. All equipment shall be cleaned prior to starting/turnover. III. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup IV. Heat Recovery systems shall be enthalpy wheels, hydronic glycol based systems, or air to air heat exchangers or run around coils. These shall be designed on a case by case basis and will need to be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. V. Pressure dependent rooms shall always have a schedule shown on drawings indicating location, room name, room use and pressures required to meet code criteria. Testing and Balancing reports for these rooms shall always indicate design pressure and actual pressure of room. VI. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. 1) Air Handling Units 2) Chillers 3) Boilers that are designed for co generation VII. Field Testing a. The following equipment shall be field witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. 1) Field Assembled Air Handling Units VIII. Flexible ductwork is not allowed in healthcare projects. IX. Slip and Drive connections for ductwork are only permitted when space in ceiling is limited. X. Provide futures when tapping off piping risers. XI. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 426 2024 E. Pandemic Upgrades I. All upgrades shall be discussed with Facilities Management. The HVAC systems shall have the following upgrades: a. Minimum MERV 13 filters i. For clinical areas: Ability to add HEPA filtration when needed b. Ability to operate spaces at a humidity level of when needed c. Ability to operate with OA when needed with OA intake of unit minimum 50 feet from the exhaust of any system and street level i. Base design to be return air (or enthalpy recovery) F. Equipment 1. Access Doors Access doors shall be provided in any spaces where maintenance of any system (air or water) will need to be provided. A minimum size of 24x24 shall be provided, if smaller size is requested, obtain permission from Facilities Operations. Access shall be provided to all piping trim, dampers, actuators, shut off valves, BMS Sensors, equipment both sides of reheat preheat and cooling coils and any other equipment required maintenance access. The doors shall not be blocked by piping, electrical conduit, ceiling support iron or hangers. Per NYS Mechanical Code requirements, all FSD/SD/FD access doors shall be labeled “Fire/Smoke Damper Access Door”. Access door shall also be tagged per the NYULH naming convention. Approved Manufacturers: a. Finished Construction: 1) Karp 2) Mil Cor 3) Ruskin b. Sheetmetal (doors): 1) Duct Mate 2) Flexmaster 3) Ruskin c. Sheetmetal (hardware): 1) Arlan 2) Duro Dyne 3) Ventlok NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 427 2024 2. Air Compressors Medical air compressors see plumbing design guidelines. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sullair b. Quincy c. Ingersoll Rand 3. Air Conditioning Units ECM fan technology is preferred If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Refer to “Cooling/Heating Coil” section for further details. a. Packaged Self Contained Computer Room Air Conditioning Units Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) APC 3) Stulz 4) Trane b. Packaged Self Contained Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Enviro Tec 2) Liebert 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin 5) Climatemaster c. Packaged Self Contained DX Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) Mammoth 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin 5) Climatemaster d. Spot Coolers (Data Closets) 1) Movin Cool NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 428 2024 e. Air Conditioning Water Source Heat Pumps 1) AAON 2) Carrier 3) Mitsubishi 4) Climatemaster 5) Bosch (Florida Heat Pump) 3.4. Air Curtains Air curtains shall be provided with a door switch to operate only when doors are open. Approved Manufacturers: a. Berner International Corp. b. King c. Mars Air Door d. Powered Aire Inc. 4. Air Filters Approved Manufacturers: a. Viledon b. Flanders c. Fiber Bond 5. Air Handling/Conditioning Units If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Units shall be furnished with unit controls to comply with the requirements of the most current New York City Energy Conservation Code (NYCECC). ECM fan technology is preferred. In lieu of ECM fans, Ffan array technology shall can be used on all Air Handling Units. Provide one VFD per fan array and one VFD as backup, total of two VFDs per fan array. Do not provide bypass on VFDs. The VFDs shall be programmed to operate all fans simultaneously and at the same ramp speeds. Each fan motor in the fan array shall have its own local disconnect. The VFDs shall swap at a determined time interval to equal out run time. Manufacturer fan array control can be used only for monitoring purposes. Speed control/safety resets shall be controlled through the BMS or local to the AHU (i.e. static pressure trips). All fans in a fan array system shall be provided with low pressure drop backdraft dampers that will prevent recirculating air when a fan is down due to maintenance or failure. Do not provide blank off plates in lieu of backdraft dampers. Include trolly beam in motor section for motor removal and replacement. Non Ducted filter boxes shall have a minimum of 1 foot clearance. Ducted intake filter boxes shall have removable panels. This applies to V Cube type Mamoth condenser water type units. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 429 2024 If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. Motor section shall have doors or removable panels that are larger than the motor for maintenance access. All floor plating inside each compartment shall be sheetmetal. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. If a unit is a double stack unit with access doors/panels on an upper level of the unit, the unit shall be provided with a permanent walkway/catwalk for maintenance access. Ladders without a walkway/catwalk are not allowed. Units are to be provided with access windows for each unit section. Lighting shall also be provided in each section. If unit is outdoors, lighting suitable for outdoor use (flood light type) shall be provided to illuminate all walkways/catwalks and access points. Pre assembled units 15,000 CFM and above shall be factory witness tested. Units under 15,000 CFM shall be reviewed with facilities on a case by case basis for specialty practice applications. Tests shall consist of: Unit walkthrough/punchlist, Leakage, Airflow, Coil Leakage, Deflection, Fan Vibration, and Acoustical. Field assembled units shall have the same test criteria as factory witness test but shall be field tested by manufacturer. Duct seal putty shall be used in all AHU conduit connections to VFDs, control enclosures, and other sensitive electronics. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. On units that require UV lighting, AHU UV light sections shall be provided with UV protected glass so that personnel can look into unit section without damaging eyes. UV lighting requirement also applies to packaged rooftop units. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Stainless steel welded pans shall be installed under all AHU’s and floor mounted CRAC/CRAH units that are inside of a building above the lowest floor. Pans are not required if flooring is waterproofed and floor is pitched to floor drains. Air blenders shall be used in all mixed air units. Air blenders shall be designed with low pressure drop. Discuss need of air blenders with facilities if design engineer is choosing to design a dual purpose heating/cooling coil as described in Cooling/Heating Coil section. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 430 2024 For an AHU that serves Operating Rooms; the unit shall be designed to have a pre filter (intake of unit) of MERV 8. The final filter (discharge of unit) shall be MERV 15. HEPA filtration shall be installed in the modular OR ceiling. If a modular ceiling is not being designed inside the operating room, discuss with facilities where HEPA filtration shall be installed. Service platforms / catwalks shall be provided to service doors / maintainable equipment that are 4 feet above roof per OSHA general industry standard fall exposure. Service platforms / catwalks shall be installed with a staircase. Foam wall insulation is preferred over fiberglass to reduce overall product dimensions. Refer to “Cooling/Heating Coil” section for further details. Approved Manufacturers: a. Factory Assembled Custom Air Handling Units 1) Air Enterprise 2) Buffalo Air Handling 3) Temtrol 4) Ventrol 5) Carrier 6) Ingenia 7) Alliance Air Products 8) Haakon 8)9) Scott Springfield b. Packaged Roof Mounted Air Handling Units 1) Enviro Tec 2) Trane 3) York/Johnson Controls 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth c. Packaged Roof Mounted DX Air Handling Units 1) Trane 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Liebert 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth d. Packaged Self Contained Chilled Water Air Handling Units 1) Buffalo Air Handling 2) Trane 3) Ventrol 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 431 2024 e. Air Handling air source heat pumps All air source heat pumps shall be reviewed and approved with facilities management prior to any design. e. Packaged Self Contained Computer Room Air Conditioning Units Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) APC 3) Stulz 4) Trane f. Packaged Self Contained Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Enviro Tec 2) Liebert 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin g. Packaged Self Contained DX Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) Mammoth 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin h. Spot Coolers (Data Closets) 1) Movin Cool 6. Air Outlets Any outlets that are to be installed in labs, Operating Rooms or any specialized medical space shall be specific to the usage of the room. Standard outlets are not allowed in these areas. Plenum box connections to linear diffusers need to be clearly shown in details. Details shall clearly describe how connections shall be air sealed. Design engineer shall ensure detail is physically buildable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus e. Ruskin NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 432 2024 7. Air Source Heat This section applies to central plant chilled and hot water production systems. Equipment and accessories shall be certified to the latest version of ARI Standard 550/590 and meet ARI Standard 370 noise criteria. All components that require maintenance or manipulation such as valves shall have clear unobstructed access. Panel enclosures (control and electrical) shall be NEMA 4. Exposed power wiring shall be routed through liquid tight, non metallic conduit. The unit shall divert melted water and mitigate ice buildup during defrost cycle away from unit components. Provide single point of connections for mechanical piping (separate heating and cooling) and electrical power. Single modules shall be capable of operating in cooling only, heating only, or simultaneous operation. The modules shall have the ability to be fully isolated from the system electrically and mechanically for service and maintenance. For maintenance requirements provide with at minimum one convenience outlet, lighting and water spigot with heat tracing. Coordinate with other roof equipment. Provide with an integral or separate heat exchanger to allow for heat transfer between hot/chilled water loops without the use of compressors. Evaporators shall be insulated with polyurethane insulation. Paddle type water flow switches are not acceptable. Fan motors shall be electronically commutated (EC) motors. Condenser coils shall be constructed of marine coated aluminum or copper fins with coppers tubes. Field testing with manufacturer representative shall occur two (2) times, one (1) during summer, one (1) during winter. Approved Manufacturers: Reach out to Facilities Operations for Approved Vendor list 7. Air Volume Regulators Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 433 2024 8. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) Approved Manufacturers: a. Rittling b. Slantfin c. Sterling Radiator d. Vulcan Radiator 9. Boilers Approved Manufacturers: a. Condensing Modular 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless