to Virtual Urgent Care? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Mobile Device? How Do I Access Virtual Urgent Care with a Computer? How Do I Cancel a Virtual Urgent Care Video Visit? What If I Experience Technical Issues? Follow-Up Care What If I Need Blood Work, Imaging Services, or Follow-Up Care After My Visit? What If I Have a Question After My Visit? You can make an appointment online through our website’s scheduling portal or through your or your child’s NYU Langone’s Virtual Urgent Care services are available to patients who are physically located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Florida, and Nevada at the time of the visit. Anyone age 5 years or older can use Virtual Urgent Care. Adults must sign in using their own NYU Langone Health MyChart account. For children’s video visits, the parent or legal guardian’s NYU Langone Health MyChart account must be set up with healthcare proxy access to the child’s health record. If a parent or legal guardian does not already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, they receive an email or text with instructions on how to create an account after they have scheduled the appointment. If the parent or legal guardian does not already have healthcare proxy access to their child’s NYU Langone health record, they receive temporary access to complete the Virtual Urgent Care video visit. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider can prescribe medications as needed. Controlled substances and certain other medications cannot be prescribed during video visits. During your visit, let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know you need a note. After your visit, you can access the note from your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you already have an NYU Langone Health MyChart account, sign in to begin the check-in process. If you do not already have an account, you must create one. You will be prompted to create an account when you schedule your video visit. Having an NYU Langone Health MyChart account allows you to save time when scheduling your appointments with NYU Langone providers by securely storing your personal information, such as your medical history and current medication, in your NYU Langone health record. If you need a doctor’s note for your employer or school, NYU Langone Health MyChart allows you to print one at your convenience. We can also help you reset your username and password . For technical questions, please call us at If you want to use a mobile phone or tablet to access Virtual Urgent Care, first download the NYU Langone Health mobile app from the App Store . With the app installed, you can then log in to NYU Langone Health MyChart and grant access to your microphone and camera. Although it’s not required, we recommend that you connect to Wi-Fi for a better video visit experience and to limit your data usage. If you do not have access to Wi-Fi, you can connect to the Virtual Urgent Care video visit through your wireless carrier. You need a desktop or laptop computer with a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection to access Virtual Urgent Care with a computer. Recent versions of Google Chrome, Apple Safari, and Mozilla Firefox web browsers are compatible with this service. If you have trouble connecting, please call us at To cancel a visit, go to the appointment details page in your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are late to a Virtual Urgent Care visit, we recommend that you cancel and reschedule for a later time. If your Virtual Urgent Care video gets disconnected, attempt to reconnect by logging back in to NYU Langone Health MyChart. For more information on troubleshooting your Virtual Urgent Care visit, please call us at If your Virtual Urgent Care provider recommends laboratory testing or an imaging exam, your provider enters an order into your . You can then schedule your test for a location of your choice. Your results can be found in your MyChart account, and we will contact you about any abnormal results. Learn more about scheduling imaging exams Appointments for and other respiratory tests—such as , strep, and throat culture—can be scheduled through the NYU Langone Health app. You can also complete your blood, urine, or stool laboratory tests at an NYU Langone location. If you prefer to use a non–NYU Langone location, please let your Virtual Urgent Care provider know. Your Virtual Urgent Care provider may refer you to your primary care doctor for follow-up care, or to your local emergency department if you need more immediate care. If you need a specialist, our providers can help you find an NYU Langone doctor in the New York area or in Florida. You can send a message to your Virtual Urgent Care provider through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account or call us at We have doctors in Manhattan and Queens. 877-615-4477 Our orthopedic specialists provide an integrated team approach to the evaluation and treatment of a wide range of hip disorders occurring in adults and children. At NYU Langone’s Hip Center, part of , our team includes pediatric and adult orthopedic surgeons with different subspecialty backgrounds, as well as therapists and radiologists who share a specific interest in disorders of the hip. This unique collaborative approach allows us to provide care for all hip conditions, whether they are developmental, traumatic, or degenerative, and to take a collaborative approach to each person’s situation. Patients with complex conditions affecting the hip and those who are candidates for surgery may be discussed in a team conference, during which we plan personalized treatment for each patient. Our services for children are provided through Our Specialties and Services Our specialists have vast experience diagnosing and treating a broad range of conditions affecting the hip, including the following: hip dysplasia , or shallow hip socket femoral–acetabular impingement (FAI) hip labrum tears osteoarthritis, including hip arthritis in young adults and post-traumatic arthritis sports hip and groin injuries sports hernias avascular necrosis of the hip fractures of the hip and pelvis , including fractures that are slow to heal snapping hip syndrome In recent years, many innovative surgical and nonsurgical options have become available for the treatment of hip disorders in adults and children. Our surgical and nonsurgical treatment options include the following: hip injections, including platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections hip arthroscopy procedures for labrum tears and hip impingement hip and pelvis osteotomy, including Ganz Bernese osteotomy, also known as periacetabular osteotomy (PAO), for hip dysplasia core decompression and bone grafting for avascular necrosis of the hip We also specialize in minimally invasive, single-incision total hip replacements, such as anterior total hip replacement and robotic-assisted total hip replacement, which for many patients can be performed as an outpatient procedure. To schedule an appointment or to arrange a hospital transfer, call . You can also email us with any questions at nyhipcenter@nyulangone.org . Please allow 24 to 48 hours for a response from one of our physicians. Our skilled surgeons and radiologists provide specialized surgical and nonsurgical care for the treatment of all hip conditions. Thomas Youm Same-Day Hip Replacements May Offer Recovery at Home Hip Replacements Not Just for Grandparents Anymore Same Day Hip Replacement at NYU Langone Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone We have locations in Brooklyn and Manhattan. 347-377-3520 Community Medicine Program The care team at Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides healthcare to adults through several New York City homeless services locations. We meet the healthcare needs of the entire family through programs that focus on primary and specialized medical care, dentistry, and social support services. View All Family Health Centers , reaches people who otherwise would have limited access to healthcare. We provide primary and urgent care as well as vaccinations, women’s health services , and health education. We also offer behavioral health services including psychotherapy and psychiatric evaluation. In addition to our primary care services, we can connect our patients with doctors from more than 25 medical and surgical specialties substance use is available to residents of the shelter system and those who are formerly homeless and living in the city’s supportive housing. Services include group therapy, supportive therapy, and medication. We also provide referrals and navigation services to help people enter detox programs and addiction rehabilitation. Our care team includes doctors, psychiatrists, nurse practitioners, registered nurses, psychiatric nurses, social workers, HIV counselors, care managers, and substance abuse counselors. Community Medicine Locations Our clinics can be found at the following residential shelters for people who are experiencing housing issues, transitional living, or homelessness. Except where noted, services are available to residents only. Atlantic House Men’s Shelter, 2402 Atlantic Avenue, 347-377-4230 Barbara S. Kleiman Shelter for Men, 300 Skillman Avenue, 718-302-7366 (community health services available to anyone in need, regardless of housing status) Bedford Atlantic Shelter, 1322 Bedford Avenue, 929-457-5671 Magnolia House Women’s Shelter, 1424 Herkimer Street, 347-377-4231 Park Slope Women’s Shelter, 1402 Eighth Avenue (health navigation and support services only) Bowery Residents Committee at 317 Bowery, 718-210-5293 Bowery Residents Committee at 127 West 25th Street, 212-533-3281 , extension 8624 Keener Men’s Shelter, 64 Sunken Garden Loop, Wards Island, 347-377-4243 Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corporation, 120 East 32nd Street, 347-377-3254 (care available to anyone who is homeless) Project Find—Woodstock Hotel, 127 West 43rd Street, 212-221-5748 For general information about our community medicine services, please call Our doctors and nurse practitioners provide annual checkups, immunizations, and urgent care. Kristoffersen A. Acoba Ramin Asgary Mirabai K. Batra Carolina E. Braginsky GD Geraldine Dufort SG Seeta Ganpat CJ Cynthia Jean-Baptiste Teineicia Knights UM Ursina A. Mercado MO Marlene Othoniel ES Erica Scher Jennifer D. Silverberg Alicia Stivala Derrick J. Tolbert-Walker Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Find a Dentist & Schedule We have locations across New York City. 718-630-6875 Dental Medicine—Family Health Centers Dental care for adults, children, and people with special needs is available through locations as well as dental sites at our school-based centers. Our staff includes general dentists, pediatric dentists, dental specialists, and oral surgeons, as well as dental hygienists. We are the largest dental resident teaching facility in the United States. Dental school graduates work alongside our experienced faculty as they further their training. We provide preventive dental care to keep your teeth and gums clean and healthy. We treat cavities and perform dental procedures such as root canals, gum surgery, and dental implants. We also provide specialty dental care when it is needed, fit patients for crowns, bridges, and dentures, and provide treatment for oral–facial pain. Orthodontic care is available, as are cosmetic procedures such as tooth whitening and veneers. To ease the stress of dental treatment, sedation is available to our patients. Complex cases that require surgery and anesthesia can be treated at To make an appointment at any of these Family Health Center clinic locations, please call : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Hindi, Mandarin, Russian, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Arabic, French Creole, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Evening and Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Arabic, Cantonese, Polish, and Spanish. : Saturday appointments are available. Staff members are fluent in Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Mandarin. : Sunday appointments are available, and staff members are fluent in Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish. : Staff members are fluent in Spanish. We provide a full spectrum of dental care, including orthodontics and cosmetic dentistry, at Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice . Dental care for children is available at schools throughout New York City through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s Our Team of Dentists Our dentists treat adults and children. JA John F. Albano DMD Dentist Charles D. Azzaretti DDS CB Craig Berry Peggy L. Budhu John P. Celona Pediatric Dentist Julie A. Cernigliaro Luzmarina Coffey GC Gina M. Cucchiara Marina Fainberg MF Michael J. Feldman Danielle H. Fridline BG Beeren Gajjar Lynn Gargano Robert S. Goldberger Barry S. Goodman Betty Greenspan Meeta Grewal SH Sol D. Haber Plastic Surgery Dentist Bethany P. Harris DDS, MPH Susan Hernandez Jonathan M. Kamen Daniel J. Kane NK Nicholas S. Katchen View All 46 Doctors & 46 COVID-19 Pandemic Triggers Pediatric Dental Health Crisis Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Webinar Series at NYU Langone hosts hour-long webinars throughout the year. In the webinars, our experts discuss topics including the latest treatments for , research advances in the field, and managing life with the condition. MSWebinars@NYULangone.org 646-501-4797 Social Work Services at the Fresco Institute Providing multifaceted support for patients and families is part of what we do every day at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone. Social workers help us make that happen. As part of our patient-centered care model, the Fresco Institute offers integrated, –specific social work support and wellness services for patients and their caregivers and families, with onsite social workers who are part of the care team. Our social workers are specialized and uniquely qualified to help you, your loved ones, and your care partners adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s and other . We provide comprehensive assessments and develop support plans that fit your needs and goals, and address how these may change over time. We target your strengths, identify areas of concern, and tap into a broad range of resources for referral to help you to cope, adapt, and live well. We also provide disease-specific education and lead support groups for patients and care partners onsite and in the community. Our social work team members are leaders in the field and are national innovators in the development of Parkinson’s disease–specific support and wellness programs for patients and families in the clinic, in the community, and in home. All patients at the Fresco Institute can access our social work services. If you are interested in learning more about our social work program or to schedule an appointment, please contact our social worker at Parkinson’s Disease Support Group The Fresco Institute offers two support group programs—one for active people with Parkinson’s disease, and another for care partners of people with Parkinson’s disease. Trained and experienced professionals from our social work team lead the psychosocial groups, which are offered at no charge. An intake interview is required for support group participation. For more information or to schedule an intake interview, please contact our support and community services team at Social work support services are made possible through the generous support of the Parkinson’s Foundation and the Paolo and Marlene Fresco Foundation. Parkinson’s Disease Group Seminars We offer monthly educational group seminars that provide holistic education and resources for people who have been diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease and their caregivers. Skilled and experienced professional nurses facilitate the groups, which are open to the community. Discussion topics include current research about Parkinson’s disease, falls prevention, pain management, healthy sleep hygiene, maintaining relationships and sexual health, and how physical, occupational, and speech therapy can help you. To RSVP, or to learn more about our monthly educational group seminars, please contact our registered nurse at Our Fresco Institute Care Team At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, we believe that patients are best cared for by an expert and dedicated team of healthcare professionals who work together to enhance your quality of life. The team attends to your physical, emotional, and social needs. We are committed to providing comprehensive and compassionate care through every stage of the disease. Your core care team consists of neurologists, nurses, and social workers. We also collaborate with occupational therapists, physical therapists, speech–language pathologists, and palliative care providers who help focus on quality-of-life issues. Neurologists are physicians who specialize in disorders of the brain and nervous system. A specialist is a neurologist who has completed additional training in movement disorders, such as . These doctors assess your medical status, prescribe and monitor medications, and make referrals and recommendations for care. The social worker at the Fresco Institute is a healthcare specialist who help patients, care partners, and families adapt to the emotional, physical, and practical concerns of living with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. Our social worker is uniquely qualified to assess psychosocial needs, provide psychological counseling, help patients to understand and implement their treatment plans, assist in long-term planning, and make referrals to support and wellness resources in the community and in the home. Learn more about our Nurses The team at the Fresco Institute includes a registered nurse who assesses individual concerns and difficulties, educate patients and their caregivers, and provide referrals to recommended programs and services. Our nurse assists in the assessment of patients’ physical and psychological status and monitors the effects and side effects of medications. Services Available at Rusk Rehabilitation Many of our services are available through , where people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders can receive the physical rehabilitation that is an important part of the treatment plan. Physiatry Physiatrists are physicians who specialize in physical medicine and rehabilitation. They oversee your treatment team and coordinate your physical and medical care. A physiatrist can monitor your response to therapy and make adjustments in medications or your treatment plan to promote optimum functioning and enhance your quality of life. Occupational therapists use exercise, adaptive devices, and modifications to your usual routines to help you preserve motor function and retain your independence for as long as possible. Our therapies help people perform activities of daily living, including feeding, bathing, grooming, toileting, dressing, bed and chair transfers, writing, and workplace activities. We can also help you with issues such as balance and coordination, as well as work with you to make sure you have the skills and adaptations necessary to live safely at home. When Parkinson’s disease affects gait and mobility, our physical therapists can help. We create individual and goal-specific exercise programs and therapies that focus on improving balance, strength, posture, flexibility, and endurance. Physical therapists also help families by teaching safe, effective, and efficient ways to provide a loved one with the physical assistance he or she needs. If you develop issues related to speech, voice, memory, and swallowing, our speech–language pathologists can help. The speech–language pathology program at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation provides treatment. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Swallowing Disorders Program provides evaluation and treatment focused on improving swallowing function. Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center Community Events hosts regular educational and community events throughout the year for people who have , as well as their partners, family, and friends. For more information, please call or email Kathy-An Glynn at Kathyan.Glynn@NYULangone.org The team at the MS Palliative Care Center, part of NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, provides supportive care to improve the lives of people who have MS and their families. Working in an outpatient setting, our palliative care specialists are dedicated to helping people at any age or stage of the condition. Palliative care can help relieve pain and other MS symptoms and address the side effects of treatment. Our goal is to enhance quality of life through individualized care. We specialize in caring for people with MS who experience high levels of distress, difficult-to-manage symptoms, or disease progression. Working with your neurologist, we provide personalized, goal-oriented care matching your goals and values, and we also assist with treatment decisions. Our team works with you and your family to support physical, emotional, and social needs related to your condition. We address common MS symptoms and side effects, including anxiety, depression, and fatigue. People experiencing fatigue or coping with the stress of MS may benefit from integrative care and services. We refer patients to NYU Langone’s for psychological, physical, occupational, speech, and pelvic floor therapies. Additionally, we assist with gaining access to social resources and spiritual support. Patients and families may receive guidance to navigate difficult decisions. As specialists in advanced care planning, we empower patients to express their values and care preferences, with the goal of honoring their decisions. We can assist with healthcare proxy forms medical orders for life-sustaining treatment Our MS-Support Team We are a special team of board-certified nurse practitioners (NPs) . Working with members of each patient’s care team, our NPs provide an extra layer of support and care coordination. A referral from your doctor is required to schedule an appointment with the MS-Support team. After receiving the referral, a member of our team will reach out to you to schedule an appointment. We offer same-day, next-day, and telemedicine appointments. Experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, part of NYU Langone’s , provide treatment, counseling, and education for people with this condition and their families. Neuromyelitis optica, also known as neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), is an autoimmune condition in which the immune system mistakenly damages healthy nervous system tissue. In most cases of NMOSD, aquaporin-4 antibody, also known as NMO antibody, can be detected in the blood. NMO antibodies can damage the optic nerves, spinal cord, and sometimes the brain. Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody associated disorder (MOGAD) is a recently described autoimmune disease that may resemble NMOSD, but requires a different treatment. NMOSD is a rare disorder, affecting approximately 16,000 people in the United States. MOGAD is similarly rare. Our doctors provide treatment for people with NMOSD and MOGAD in children and adults. Our center has evaluated more than 350 people with these rare conditions. NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes are often mistaken for , a more common central nervous system autoimmune disorder that has similar symptoms. Standard MS treatments can worsen NMOSD and MOG antibody syndromes, so accurate diagnosis is very important. If proper treatment is started soon after symptom onset, prolonged remission that stops the disease from progressing is realistic. The Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program is led by Ilya Kister, MD , who has extensive experience treating NMOSD and MOG antibody disorder, and is a leader in research into these conditions. Lauren B. Krupp, MD , and her fellow clinicians see pediatric patients who have these conditions. Diagnosing NMOSD Diagnosing NMOSD starts with a detailed history of the person’s symptoms. During an NMOSD attack, or relapse, people with the condition might experience eye pain; vision loss; numbness, weakness, or paralysis in the arms and legs; and loss of bladder and bowel control. A neurological examination is performed to determine whether relapse has occurred. If NMOSD relapse is suspected, an of the brain, optic nerve, and spinal cord might be performed to look for the hallmark lesions of the disease. NMO and MOG antibodies will be tested with blood tests that are usually sent out to a specialized laboratory. Treatment for NMOSD and MOGAD Care for people with NMOSD and MOGAD is provided by our dedicated team, which includes neurologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, a neuro-urologist, nurse coordinators, social workers, occupational therapists, and psychologists. The key to preventing disability in NMOSD and MOGAD is in preventing relapses. Currently there are three U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapies for NMOSD—satralizumab (brand name: Enspryng), eculizumab (Soliris), and inebilizumab (Uplizna). In addition, our doctors have extensive experience with off-label therapies that are highly effective such as rituximab (Rituxan) and tocilizumab (Actemra). For MOGAD relapse prevention, there are no FDA-approved treatments. Several medications are used off label, including intravenous immunoglobulins, subcutaneous immunoglobulins, and oral immunosuppressant drugs such as mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept). Our center is currently participating in a clinical trial, which, if successful, could lead to approval of the first drug for MOGAD. During relapse, we prescribe intravenous steroids to help speed recovery. This may be combined with plasmapheresis, which is a way to remove disease-triggering antibodies from the blood. People with NMOSD and MOGAD may experience symptoms caused by damage to the nervous tissue. A variety of medications, as well as non-medication approaches, are available to alleviate common symptoms of these diseases. Infusion therapies can be provided at the infusion centers at , and other NYU Langone-affiliated infusion sites. For relapses requiring inpatient care, specialized care is provided at Tisch Hospital. Expert inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation therapy is available at Clinical Research in NMOSD and MOGAD NYU Langone doctors are among the leaders in clinical research into better treatments for this rare disorder, and have published widely on the subject of NMOSD. Our patients can contribute to research into NMOSD through clinical trials. We are currently participating in Meteoroid , clinical trial into a promising new treatment for MOGAD called satralizumab. To learn more about our research program, please email Dr. Kister at Ilya.Kister@NYULangone.org To make an appointment for an evaluation by one of our experts at the Neuromyelitis Optica and MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment and Research Program, please call . To learn more about our research or for other questions, please contact Dr. Kister at Waiting: It’s one of the hardest jobs of someone in need of a lung transplant. At NYU Langone, we get people off the waitlist five-times faster than other hospitals. This, along with our commitment to providing the highest standard of care, makes us the No. 1 lung transplant program in the United States. , part of the Two million brain cells are lost every minute a stroke goes untreated. So, we deliver lifesaving treatment 10 minutes faster than other New York hospitals. Our team of neurologists, neuroradiologists, nurses, and EMTs move with unparalleled efficiency from the second you arrive at the hospital. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to ’s “Best Hospitals” 2024–25. Learn more about our Comprehensive Stroke Center Read about our No. 1 ranking Read about our High Standards of Care In brain surgery, every millimeter matters. So, we use VR to rehearse your exact procedure before you enter the operating room, and AI to inform real-time decisions during surgery—to deliver the highest survival rates in the nation. It’s why we’re the No. 1 hospital in the nation for neurology and neurosurgery, according to Learn more about our Department of Neurosurgery Military Family Center Team The care team at the NYU Langone Military Family Center offers support and treatment for veterans and their families experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) substance use disorder , and other mental health conditions. Directors Charles R. Marmar, MD Chair of Psychiatry | Psychiatry Internationally recognized for his expertise in post-traumatic stress, Dr. Marmar treats veterans, including those who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, who have combat-related conditions. He also works with refugees and earthquake survivors. J. David Stiffler, MD Medical Director | Psychiatry Dr. Stiffler is medical director of the Military Family Center. Ariane Ling, PhD Assistant Director | Psychology Dr. Ling is assistant director of the Military Family Center, a clinical psychologist, and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. Dr. Ling provides integrative, culturally attuned, and individually tailored evidence-based psychotherapy to individuals and couples experiencing substance use difficulties, PTSD, depression, anxiety, and adjustment and psychosocial stressors. Clinical Staff William Folberth, PsyD Dr. Folberth is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in working with children, adolescents, and families who have been impacted by trauma and has extensive experience providing cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) to address a wide range of anxiety and mood disorders. He has presented at the annual convention of the Anxiety and Depression Association of America on the implementation of evidence-based treatments to treat PTSD in children and adolescents. BJ Brittney S. Jordan, PsyD Dr. Jordan is a clinical psychologist. AP Amy P. Palfrey, PhD Dr. Palfrey is a clinical psychologist. Justin R. Pomerenke, PhD Dr. Pomerenke is a clinical psychologist and clinical assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His training emphasized the treatment and research of PTSD and co-occurring conditions such as substance use disorder and insomnia. Dr. Pomerenke provides individually tailored cognitive behavioral treatments for PTSD, anxiety, substance use disorders, and depression. He has specialized training in a variety of evidence-based therapies, including exposure therapies such as exposure and response prevention for obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) and prolonged exposure for PTSD, cognitive processing therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, and dialectical behavior therapy. Amanda M. Spray, PhD Clinic Director | Psychology Dr. Spray is a clinical psychologist and clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry. At the center, Dr. Spray provides individual cognitive behavioral psychotherapy to adults and specializes in trauma, health psychology, and adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Anne G. Torell, PhD Training Director | Psychiatry Dr. Torell is a clinical psychologist. Support Staff RM RoviSta Maria, MA Program Coordinator Ms. Sta. Maria is the clinic’s program associate, responsible for providing administrative and program support for staff, in addition to being one of the initial points of contact for incoming and existing clients. She holds a master’s degree in industrial/organizational psychology from the CUNY School of Professional Studies. JZ Jun Zhang Database Analyst Ms. Zhang is the clinic’s database analyst. She provides comprehensive data management support for all initiatives at the clinic. She holds a master’s degree in information systems from NYU. Complete the form below to create your NYU Langone Health MyChart account and get started with your orthopedic second opinion. Confirm Eligibility You must be age 18 or older to be eligible for NYU Langone’s online second opinion service. We arenot currently able to offer this online service outside of the U.S., or in the following states: Alabama,Alaska, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, Nevada, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Carolina, and Wyoming. If you would prefer an in-person visit with an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon,you can browse our I live in the U.S. and am not currently located in one of the following states: AL, AK, IA, ME, MD, MI, NM,NV, ND, RI, SC, and WY. Personal Information Date of Birth Month (MM) Day (DD) Year (YYYY) Legal Sex Why do we ask for this? We are committed to making sure all patients feel safe and respected. We understand that not everyone’s legal sex is the same as their gender identity. We ask about legal sex because it is necessary for insurance billing, and assists us in linking this visit to prior visits. Please select the sex listed on your State ID and/or Insurance Card. You will have the opportunity to provide more detailed information on your Gender Identity and Pronouns later in the registration process. Female Male State Phone Type Mobile Work At NYU Langone we provide care for the tiniest of hearts, and we have the highest success rates for pediatric heart surgery in New York. After surgery, we get children home four weeks sooner than other hospitals. and how our heart surgery program is No. 1 in the state, according to ’s “Best Children’s Hospitals” 2023–24. Watch Video The Highest Standard of Care. For You. We strive for excellence in everything we do. Expect more every