have lupus themselves could never imagine.” “I have some insights that I think rheumatologists who don’t have lupus themselves could never imagine.” The study will also measure the burden of lupus on patients’ quality of life, and develop and evaluate a home-based strategy to identify early lupus nephritis in high-risk patients. “These research ideas start with seeing patients and listening to what they have to say,” says Dr. Izmirly. “The home monitoring idea, for instance, is a way to empower them to help manage their own disease.” A Broader View of Lupus As part of the first aim to study frequency and prevalence of lupus and non-lupus comorbidities, the researchers will use electronic health record information as well as hospitalization and emergency use data from New York’s Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System . Including data on social and structural determinants of health will help clarify nonclinical associations affecting patients’ health and healthcare utilization. The study’s second aim will assess patient-reported outcomes related to pain, anxiety, depression, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and other factors in combination with disease activity, and social determinants of health. The collaborators have piloted a set of questions that they are administering twice a year to patients with lupus, including versions translated into Mandarin and Spanish. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus… I think that would be pretty exciting.” “Clinically, patients may have phenotypes based on blood work and other tests, but that doesn’t measure the patient experience at all,” Dr. Gold says. “Someone might feel really lousy, but their blood work looks normal.” In addition to supporting the goals of improving clinical management of lupus and co-management of related health conditions, the study will gather novel molecular data to determine whether any biomarkers map to patterns uncovered by the quality-of-life analysis. “If we could get a handle, for the first time, on some of the molecular signatures that might relate to fatigue and pain in lupus that go beyond traditional markers, I think that would be pretty exciting,” Dr. Buyon says. Empowering Patients Through At-Home Testing For the study’s third aim, the researchers are assessing a home-based urine testing protocol for patients at high risk of lupus nephritis. “We always worry about kidney disease in patients with lupus, and many times they aren’t aware that they have it until they have really swollen legs or other complications,” Dr. Izmirly says. The home-based option may also reduce the burden on patients who would otherwise need to make frequent lab visits. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes.” An initial pilot project will involve 20 high-risk patients who are instructed how to use urine dipsticks at home to measure their protein levels. “The patients will be sent a training video on how to do the home urinalysis,” Dr. Izmirly says. “Once a week, they’ll get a text message prompting them to do one and send us the results.” Abnormal test results will prompt a more formal laboratory analysis. “Our goal is to identify a way for patients to help detect kidney disease earlier and, hopefully in the long term, improve outcomes,” he says. Jill P. Buyon, MD, is the Sir Deryck and Lady Va Maughan Professor of Rheumatology, director of the Division of Rheumatology, co-director of the Colton Center for Autoimmunity, and director of the Lupus Center. Her research and clinical work focus on lupus, lupus-like conditions, pre-lupus, and Sjogren’s syndrome. Heather T. Gold, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her research focuses on socioeconomic, racial and ethnic, geographic, and clinical determinants of health and economic outcomes. Peter M. Izmirly, MD, is a professor of medicine and a member of the Division of Rheumatology. His clinical and research interests include the epidemiology of lupus and related autoimmune diseases, lupus nephritis, and neonatal lupus. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease NYU Langone Health’s internationally known has forged strong collaborations with researchers in the Middle East, Japan, France, and elsewhere to help understand, diagnose, and treat the condition. The center’s leader, Johannes Nowatzky, MD , the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease and Ocular Rheumatology Programs in the , also recently secured two R01 grants from the NIH to support new investigations into the mechanisms underlying this relatively rare but life-altering disease. Here, Dr. Nowatzky discusses his goals in expanding the program’s reach. A Hub for Expertise and Innovation What makes the Behçet’s Disease Center so unique? Dr. Nowatzky: We are building a truly comprehensive program with notable expansions across our three clinical, research, and educational components. In the clinical area, I have many years of experience with the disease in the Middle East, where it is most common. I’ve also recruited some of the very best rheumatologists, who can really think deeply about a patient referred with Behçet’s disease, or labeled as having it, and revise a diagnosis if necessary. This label is, many times, incorrect. My laboratory supports the research part of the center. We conduct both basic and translational research. We have two R01 grants focused on Behçet’s disease—that’s quite unique because the NIH hadn’t previously awarded those types of grants for Behçet’s research in more than three decades. On the teaching side, we train at all levels from fellows to continuing medical education. Much of the Behçet’s disease training that is directed to clinicians is traditionally considered to be in the rheumatology domain. However, conventional rheumatology training does not cover many of the skills needed to diagnostically deal with Behçet’s disease and the conditions that mimic it. For instance, developing a differential diagnosis of mucosal lesions or of subtle ocular findings that help determine whether a certain form of uveitis makes or breaks a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. Where do you see the program further expanding? One priority in the clinical sector is diagnostic accuracy and precision. That is a huge problem in Behçet’s disease because it doesn’t have seromarkers or other biomarkers, and no truly pathognomonic findings. There is a serious overdiagnosis in the United States, which has to do mostly with the understandable lack of familiarity of many providers with this rare disorder. At the same time, critically ill patients with Behçet’s disease sometimes do not get diagnosed, which can have serious consequences. Here, our consult service can help. We see patients who have been labeled as having Behçet’s disease by their referring providers. When sending these patients to us, doctors need to state a reason for the consult. In more than 80% of cases, it is uncertainty regarding the accuracy of a Behçet’s disease diagnosis. The other important direction of expansion is understanding disease mechanisms. Understanding the biology of this complex polygenic disease with its many different clinical phenotypes is a difficult, slow, and expensive process, but the clinical and scientific rewards are high. There simply is no real long-term progress without it. I feel privileged to finally have a real shot at doing this through the funding we secured recently, our combined clinical and scientific expertise in immunology, and our network of collaborators around the globe. A New View of Immune Changes How is your research clarifying the disease biology? One of our R01 grants, Unraveling the role of HLA-B*51/ERAP1 in Behçet’s eye disease , deals with the disease directly. What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease or an HLA class I–restricted disease. “What has become clearer from our work over the last few years is that in a subset of patients with Behçet’s disease who carry not only HLA-B*51 but a haplotype that we study, ERAP1 Hap10, the disease is not just an HLA-B*51–associated disease. It may also be an HLA-B*51–restricted disease.” What this means is there is likely a true mechanism here that alters presentation of peptides to CD8 T cells via HLA-B*51—or perhaps changes the interaction with other cells, such as natural killer cells. We recently published data that there is a change in the immune response if you genetically alter activity of ERAP1 in an HLA-B*51 restriction context. We also showed that the alterations in the immune phenotypes with this kind of genotype fall into the CD8 T cell compartment, and that there are changes in the frequency of CD8 T cells that have seen antigen versus those that have not. These findings have implications for how we view this disease immunologically and how we may want to design treatments. We have targets now such as ERAP1 for which there are already compounds that can alter the activity of this enzyme, as well as other strategies. Mapping Connections with Uveitis What about your second major line of research? The second R01 grant, Modulation of immunodominance in HLA class I associated uveitides , is delving into certain types of uveitis that have HLA class I associations but look profoundly different clinically, such as Behçet’s uveitis and HLA-B27-associated acute anterior uveitis. HLA class I/ERAP1 epistasis has relevance to other, more common diseases. In the context of Behçet’s disease with ERAP1 Hap10, for instance, when you also carry HLA-B*51, it increases the risk for Behçet’s disease to a level we have never seen before. That same enzyme haplotype or allotype, ERAP1 Hap10, actually protects from HLA-B27–associated ankylosing spondylitis and acute anterior uveitis. We’re trying to figure out how this inverse relationship works. On a public health level, this is important because psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis and acute interior uveitis are much more common than Behçet’s disease. If you identify mechanisms in the same pathway that are relevant to all of those diseases, it may be much easier to profit in the Behçet’s disease area from downstream clinical trials and pharmacological research testing new compounds for the treatment of those other diseases. Johannes Nowatzky, MD, is the Saul J. Farber Assistant Professor of Medicine and Pathology and director of the Behçet’s Disease Center and the Ocular Rheumatology Program. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers Current techniques for evaluating small bronchoscopic biopsies on-site are resource intensive and may compromise the integrity of samples for later analysis. , an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery, is working to incorporate stimulated Raman histology (SRH) microscopy, a novel optical imaging modality, into clinical workflows as a means of facilitating real-time tissue assessment. Invenio Imaging , Dr. Bessich and colleagues are evaluating the feasibility and utility of SRH microscopy in assessing small bronchoscopic biopsy specimens “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” “We want to be able to analyze lung tissue intraoperatively without losing the sample for downstream analysis,” says Dr. Bessich. “The beauty of SRH is that it renders tissue reusable, allowing thoracic pathologists to conduct additional studies with the sample.” Putting the Tech to the Test Raman spectroscopy is a common nondestructive imaging technique with several biosensing applications. Investigators at NYU Langone are also applying the approach to improve brain tumor diagnosis The application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis has many potential benefits, including reduced procedure time, decreased total biopsies, and improved yield, and could allow for intraprocedural therapeutics to be applied, especially in cases of peripheral nodules. “Before our study, the use of SRH was not assesed in lung biopsies,” says Dr. Bessich. “We wanted to know if this technology could enhance the role of the pulmonologist or thoracic pathologist in the diagnosis or characterization of primary lung cancers.” Dr. Bessich and colleagues imaged specimens using SRH in the procedure room and then submitted them to pathology for fixation and sectioning. After collection, they created a training set of 50 cases from bronchoscopic and surgical lung biopsies. Subsequently, a thoracic pathologist used this training set to interpret the SRH images, referenced against a surgical pathology hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) image with the final diagnosis. In a prospective validation, the researchers acquired SRH images from 19 cases. “The samples were imaged sequentially, first with SRH, followed by conventional H&E microscopy,” explains Dr. Bessich. “The 19 prospective cases included a wide range of diagnoses and sample types common in clinical practice, including 6 benign cases and 13 lung malignancies. The thoracic pathologist evaluated each of the 19 SRH case images and provided a diagnosis.” Promising Results For the presence of diagnostic, neoplastic tissue, there was strong case accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, says Dr. Bessich. Furthermore, almost all of the images were considered adequate for diagnosis and downstream analysis. “These results are a testament to the expertise of the thoracic pathologist who is trained to interpret SRH images, confirming that they have high fidelity for what was observed in the actual specimen,” says Dr. Bessich. “Importantly, however, these data are based on a very small number of cases, and future studies need to be conducted to assess the feasibility of the system on a larger scale.” While the application of this technology to intraprocedural diagnosis is promising, Dr. Bessich and her team believe that clinical use of SRH microscopy could also aid in the selection and prompt delivery of therapy for patients. “In the clinic, we’re often waiting for weeks to receive molecular results from tissue,” says Dr. Bessich. “If we could obtain these results in real time, we could initiate appropriate therapy sooner.” Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Can trauma be inherited? Research says yes—but until now, less was understood about the mechanism of intergenerational trauma and its impact on specific neuropsychiatric outcomes. New and ongoing studies led by NYU Langone Health neuroscientist Moriah E. Thomason, PhD , are untangling how various biological and environmental factors characterize typical and atypical neurodevelopmental trajectories in children. “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally. The question is, does this happen even before birth?” “We know that trauma can be transmitted intergenerationally, from parents who experienced maltreatment in childhood to their own children,” explains Dr. Thomason. “The question is, does this happen biologically, even before birth, and if so, what does that actually look like in the brain’s circuitry?” Mapping Trauma’s Roots, Before Birth Building on earlier research using resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) to create a blueprint of fetal brain connectivity, Dr. Thomason studied the fetal amygdala–cortical function —critical to the regulation of emotion and fear—in scans of 89 healthy pregnant women between the late second trimester and birth. The women were primarily from households with low resources and socioeconomic status, who themselves had relatively high childhood maltreatment as measured by the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. “Earlier studies have found an association between mothers who reported emotional neglect during childhood and infants with stronger connectivity between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex,” Dr. Thomason explains. “We sought to eliminate the potential influences of the postnatal environment by examining these brain regions before birth, when biological influences contribute maximally to our measures.” A positive coupling was found between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex and premotor areas of the developing brains scanned in utero, confirming an association between the mothers’ experiences of childhood maltreatment and the circuitry of their babies’ brains before birth. Further, higher amygdala connectivity between the amygdala and the left prefrontal cortex was observed in fetuses of mothers who experienced greater childhood trauma. Brain Differences: Biological Adaptation? It is well understood that positive amygdala–prefrontal cortex connectivity is associated with higher threat sensitivity and anxiety disorders in children and adults; in this pattern, healthy response regulation is interrupted by irregularities in the limbic circuitry. Through longitudinal studies, Dr. Thomason and her team will probe whether sensitization of that circuitry beginning in utero leads to lasting developmental and neuropsychological differences. “We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” “Biology is evolutionarily intelligent,” she explains. “It may be that we are born with brains adapted and optimized for the environment we grow into. We can’t assume this change in the pattern of association between these brain regions is necessarily a disadvantage.” With increased understanding of the role of both genetics and environment on inherited trauma–associated outcomes, researchers hope to pinpoint the interrelationship between those developmental inputs and specific neuropsychiatric outcomes—and target early interventions accordingly. Pooling Data to Mitigate Generational Trauma NYU Langone is one of 25 sites involved in the HEALthy Brain and Child Development Study national consortium following pregnant women and children from birth through early childhood, to observe the impact of various biological and environmental exposures on behavior and development. With a five-year grant from the NIH, Dr. Thomason and colleagues from the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry will contribute to the most comprehensive dataset to date on early development based on biospecimens, brain imaging, patient-reported history, and other inputs. Data collected will enable researchers to analyze the factors that contribute to children’s brain development, and identify exposures to trauma, substance use, and other environmental influences that may either increase their risk of problems or increase their capacity for resilience. “We are only just beginning to understand the breadth of neurodevelopmental consequences stemming from trauma in all its forms,” says Dr. Thomason. “From micronutrients in developing teeth to toxins in urine, we are uncovering biological clues to lead us toward interventions that can help mitigate the negative effects of intergenerational trauma.” Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Population Health Moriah E. Thomason, PhD, is the Barakett Associate Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and program director of the Neurodevelopmental Early Childhood Research Program. Her research focuses on how social and environmental factors impact early human neurodevelopment. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Preventive health is a mainstay of modern pediatrics, yet preventive strategies targeting early child development and school readiness—essential to overall health outcomes—can be underutilized, particularly in children who face adversity. New strategies developed by Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD Erin M. Roby, PhD , together with colleagues at NYU Langone Health and its , are helping parents build skills in reading aloud and play that support early child development and school readiness, while helping physicians and researchers identify families at risk for disparities. “Early relational health greatly impacts resilience. Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty and racism with preventive interventions.” “We know that early relational health—how children engage with parents and other caregivers—greatly impacts resilience,” notes Dr. Mendelsohn. “Our work aims to mitigate the developmental impact of poverty, racism, and trauma by equipping parents and care providers to implement preventive interventions.” An estimated two in five children in the United States live in low-income households, says Dr. Roby; half of these children lack the skills needed for learning when they enter school, she adds. These poverty-related achievement gaps begin in infancy, widening over time in the absence of intervention. Cognitive stimulation and parent–child interactions—including talking, teaching, playing, and reading—are associated with a reduction in these gaps. However, measuring the frequency and quality of these interactions has been limited to resource-intensive professional assessments that often take place in the home. Funded by seven NIH grants, the methods developed by Dr. Mendelsohn, Dr. Roby, and colleagues are designed to increase the adoption of both comprehensive developmental promotion strategies and assessment tools that can be used during pediatric well-child visits. Capturing a Picture of Cognition in the Home Recently, the research team evaluated and updated the StimQ , a measure of the cognitive home environment that has informed at least 93 research studies worldwide—29 at NYU Langone alone—since its creation in 1996. The tool assesses parents’ verbal responsivity, teaching, reading behaviors, and availability of home learning materials. The revised version, StimQ , is updated to reflect developments in both available technology and the field’s understanding of cognitive stimulation and its impact on outcomes. The interviewer-administered questionnaire takes approximately 20 minutes to complete; it is freely available online in several languages and has been used by early childhood programs to measure the effectiveness of interventions. “The use of this tool over the past 25 years has dramatically expedited our understanding of the value of developmental interventions while building the capacity of individual programs to measure their impact on a given child and family,” says Dr. Roby. The Well Exam: A Ready Intervention Opportunity To identify opportunities for intervention at the point of pediatric primary care, the research team developed the Video Interaction Project (VIP) . The parent education program is designed to be delivered at the time of every pediatric well visit from birth through 5 years. Within each session, a VIP coach leads a development-focused discussion with parents, then creates a three-minute video of the parents interacting with their children during reading or play. The coach then watches the video with the parent, reinforcing strengths and discussing opportunities to enhance interactions that stimulate early brain development and provide children with the cognitive, language, and social–emotional capacities critical for learning. “Our family-centered, culturally aligned approach empowers parents to build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” “The elegance of this solution is in its simplicity and low cost at just $250 per child per year,” says Dr. Mendelsohn. Studies of the impact of VIP have found that the intervention enhances parent–child relationships, improves child literacy and social–emotional development, and measurably reduces behavior problems that interfere with learning, such as hyperactivity. Expanding Access to Strengths-Based Tools Currently implemented across 10 locations in the New York area, the VIP program, supported by the team at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, is also available in Hudson County, New Jersey; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; and Flint, Michigan, where it was implemented to support families impacted by the city’s water crisis. The team is also working on global implementation, with work underway in Brazil and plans for expansion in Singapore. Over the next five years, the researchers aim to reach 20,000 families by expanding the VIP program to 50 sites nationally. “The success of this intervention is its family-centered, culturally aligned approach,” says Dr. Roby. “It recognizes the enormous pressures families face—from poverty, trauma, racism, and the global pandemic—and empowers parents to see where they can build on their strengths and have agency over their children’s healthy development.” Pediatrics, Population Health Alan L. Mendelsohn, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and population health, and co-director of research for the Divisions of General Pediatrics and Developmental–Behavioral Pediatrics. His research interests include poverty-related disparities in early child development and school readiness, and the promotion of positive child experiences as a buffer to trauma and adversity. Pediatrics, Psychology Erin M. Roby, PhD, is a developmental psychologist and an assistant professor of pediatrics. Her research focuses on early child development and behavior, parent–child interactions, and interventions to promote positive parenting and outcomes for children who face adversity. A National Roadmap to Meet the Emotional Health Needs of Pediatric Patients NYU Langone physicians and researchers design a go-to model for educating providers and supporting patients and families. Interventional Pulmonology Comes of Age A veteran researcher and clinician discusses landmark advances ahead in diagnostics, therapeutics, and ICU care. Microbial Signatures May Predict Respiratory Failure in COVID-19 Secondary infections not associated with worse clinical outcomes but rather poor viral control is the critical event. Could Direct Injection Improve Tumor Response Rates? A landmark trial assesses injected biologics for patients with refractory non-small cell lung cancer. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Evidence is increasing for music-based cognitive interventions, says Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH , director of the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program and a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. For decades, Dr. Mittelman has designed and studied psychosocial interventions to evaluate their benefits for family caregivers and their relatives with dementia. Her work has shown older adults with dementia and their family members both benefit from arts-based activities . Her earlier randomized controlled trials demonstrated that caregivers across demographics benefit from comprehensive counseling and support, which improves their own emotional and physical well-being and thereby helps them to keep their relatives at home. The evidence from this research has spurred New York state funding for similar programs that include counseling and support, including the one at NYU Langone Health directed by Dr. Mittelman. Her team recently earned an additional five years of state funding to support these efforts through the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program “Psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers.” “There is no drug yet available that can prevent or cure dementia, but psychosocial interventions have proven to have a significant positive impact on persons with dementia and their caregivers,” says Dr. Mittelman. With her colleague, Kendra Ray, PhD , a research assistant professor of rehabilitative medicine, Dr. Mittelman has shown that music can reduce agitation and depression symptoms among people with dementia living in nursing homes. Additionally, Dr. Ray has found patients with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders benefit from music-based interventions. The Unforgettables Chorus In 2011, Dr. Mittelman launched The Unforgettables chorus as an intervention and social outlet for people with dementia together with their caregivers. The project reflected emerging evidence that music-related memories and abilities remain accessible even after dementia onset, Dr. Mittelman says. “Many people have the prejudice that people with dementia won’t be able learn anything. In a situation in which they are producing music for the enjoyment of other people, our participants with dementia in the early to middle stages were able to learn 18 new songs for every performance.” pilot study of the chorus , published in 2018, found significant quality of life improvements for both people with dementia and their caregivers following participation. Participants stated that benefits included belonging to a group, having a normal activity together and learning new skills. Since the pandemic started, chorus practice has been held online where it draws an even larger crowd—an average of 75 participants each week, Dr. Mittelman says. She notes the chorus has also served as a model for others around the United States and elsewhere. Looking Beyond Alzheimer’s and Dementia Prevalence of cognitive disorders among people with HIV/AIDS has increased over the past few decades due to extended lifespans afforded by antiretrovirals, Dr. Ray explains, which has increased the burden on certified nursing assistants (CNAs). As part of her dissertation, Dr. Ray developed a 4-week musical intervention specifically for people with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders and their CNAs. Among 12 affected nursing home residents and five CNAs in the study, Dr. Ray found significant decreases in depressive symptoms among residents and personal achievement improvements among CNAs over the course of the intervention. “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions.” “Medicine should include more than a prescription for drugs. Good care for people with dementia and their family members should also include psychosocial interventions such as counseling and support, as well as arts-based interventions that can improve quality of life,” Dr. Mittelman says. Moving Toward Standard Practice Drs. Mittelman and Ray’s studies are supported by many others touting the benefits of music-based interventions to alleviate neuropsychiatric symptoms . A long-term goal is to standardize approaches and study designs to analyze benefits more deeply. This includes assessing and quantifying psychosocial benefits between patients and caregivers. Still, Dr. Mittelman says the work to date provides clear evidence for the value of integrating music and other arts into the lives of people with dementia and their family members. Additionally, tailored interventions that include caregivers keep more patients living in the community, rather than nursing homes, saving millions of dollars in direct care costs Mary S. Mittelman, DrPH, is a research professor of psychiatry and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Mittelman’s work centers on interventions to improve the lives of caregivers and people living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules Diagnosing suspicious peripheral pulmonary lesions seen on CT scan has often required bronchoscopy and an additional thoracic surgery to retrieve the tissue needed for biopsy. Vivek Murthy, MD , are using robotic bronchoscopy to improve minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules, reducing the need for more invasive procedures. NYU Langone Health was involved in testing the robotic equipment and was one of the first clinical sites in the U.S. to use the technology. “The paradigm has shifted in interventional pulmonology,” says Dr. Bessich. “With CT scans emitting less radiation than before and lung cancer screening widely available, the incidence of finding lung lesions is a lot higher. As a result, we’re seeing more patients needing biopsies and need a really accurate way to get to these lesions.” Increasing Diagnostic Yield Robotic bronchoscopy builds on technical and procedural advances for minimally invasive diagnosis of lung nodules developed since the introduction of endobronchial ultrasound in the 1990s. It allows for fine control of bronchoscopic navigation by replacing hand-directed movements with electronic control mechanisms. An ultrathin, ultra-flexible catheter allows navigation far into the periphery of the lung, enabling the precision needed for biopsy. “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin.” “The robotic software generates a high-resolution map of a patient’s lungs and helps us direct the minimally invasive tools to target and biopsy lung nodules without making any cuts in the skin,” Dr. Murthy explains. Once a target is identified, the three-dimensional image displays airway trees and automatically generates a path and anatomic borders to maximize safety. Dr. Bessich says the robot has a much better yield than all prior navigational software in finding, accessing and biopsying suspicious nodules. “It used to be that if a patient needed biopsy of a lymph node, we would do that procedure separately, and the nodule would often be accessed via CT-guided biopsy, coming from the outside of the chest. Now, with the improved yield from robotic bronchoscopy, we’re doing them both together and potentially eliminating the need for a second procedure.” Enhancing Cancer Diagnosis The interventional pulmonology team is working with NYU Langone neurology colleague Daniel Orringer, MD , to combine robotic bronchoscopy with in evaluating nodules they suspect are cancerous—without destroying any more tissue than necessary. Raman spectroscopy is a light scattering technique that stimulates cells and tissue and captures a high-fidelity graphic image, which is colored to resemble a hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) pathologic stain. “Because of the quality, SRH (stimulated Raman histology) allows pathologists to look for signature cancer cells. They feel more comfortable because it looks like the familiar H&E stain,” Dr. Bessich says. “When we do forceps biopsies, we need to take eight to 10 samples; we are giving them one or two samples from SRH to analyze.” Currently, pathologists aren’t reviewing the images in real time; the pulmonologists are saving the images and sending to them. The hope moving forward is that with robotic bronchoscopy, they will eventually have real time, on-site confirmation that peripheral pulmonary lesions need ablation or resection. Future Directions As they employ robotic bronchoscopy for more and more cases, Drs. Bessich and Murthy are using the artificial intelligence features of the equipment, teaching it to distinguish cancerous lesions from noncancerous. “The more airways we go into and the more pictures we get, the more accurate it gets,” Dr. Bessich says. Their goal is to identify the minimum volume of tissue needed for any molecular or genetic testing an oncologist wants completed. Their eventual hope is to be able to apply therapeutics using the robotic bronchoscope. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” “Robotic bronchoscopy has revolutionized our approach,” Dr. Bessich says. “The beauty of doing everything via bronchoscopy is that we spare the patient multiple procedures, while at the same time getting better outcomes.” Vivek Murthy, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the associate director of the Interventional Pulmonary Program. His research focuses on immune system responses to lung cancer and cancer-directed immunotherapy, as well as the development of novel minimally invasive treatment approaches. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? The cost over one year of ranibizumab PDS with refills pro re nata (PRN) versus the cost of real-world regimens of ranibizumab, aflibercept, and bevacizumab injections. ADAPTED FROM: JAMA Ophthalmol . 2022;140(7):716-723. A mean number of 9.3 aflibercept injections, 10.8 ranibizumab injections, or 58.1 bevacizumab injections would be needed to break even with the cost of ranibizumab PDS with 1 refill. ADAPTED FROM: While neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) only represents 10 to 15 percent of AMD cases , it was responsible for 90 percent of AMD-related visual impairment before the introduction of injectable anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents. However, increasing use of these agents contributes significantly to costs, and frequent (e.g., monthly) intravitreal injections can cause problems for some patients, due to factors such as location, drug access, health literacy, and fear of injections. In 2022, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first port delivery system (PDS) with sustained delivery of ranibizumab through implantation, which requires initial surgery with office refills as often as every 6 months. “The negative aspect of intravitreal injections is that they need to be administered roughly every 1 to 3 months, depending on the patient,” says , retina specialist and director of healthcare delivery research for the Department of Ophthalmology. “The purpose of this new device is to act as a drug reservoir, which is surgically implanted into the eye and refilled every 6 months or longer.” A recent study in JAMA Ophthalmology led by Dr. Parikh and colleagues at NYU Langone Health investigated costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections versus ranibizumab PDS for patients with nAMD. The team found that in most clinical scenarios, ranibizumab PDS costs more than bevacizumab in all scenarios studied. For ranibizumab and aflibercept injections, ranibizumab PDS may confer cost savings if monthly injection regimens