oncologist , and AI expert Daniel A. Orringer, MD . Dr. Orringer, a neurosurgeon at NYU Langone’s , is also pioneering the methodology for use in brain tumor imaging and diagnosis molecular classification of glioma “The possible applications are numerous.” “This approach marks an important step forward in prostate cancer diagnostics,” Dr. Taneja says. “The possible applications are numerous.” Pairing SRH and AI Dr. Taneja and his team, including former fellow Miles Mannas, MD, now at the Vancouver Prostate Center, hypothesized that an AI convolutional neural network (CNN), in combination with SRH, could address the existing challenges with real-time pathologic analysis of prostate tissues, including lengthy processing times and a shortage of pathologists with specialized training. In the recent study, the researchers developed a workflow for SRH CNN model development and testing, training the model on 303 prostate biopsies from 100 participants. The performance of the AI was then evaluated on an independent 113-biopsy test set. A previous report from the team confirmed that SRH images allow for the accurate identification of prostate cancer by pathologists. Remarkably, prostate biopsy images obtained through SRH could be generated within 2 to 2.75 minutes, and the AI system achieved a rapid classification of biopsies with cancer, with a potential identification time of 1 to 2.5 minutes. Moreover, the system demonstrated an overall accuracy of 96.5 percent in detecting prostate cancer, with a sensitivity of 96.3 percent and a specificity of 96.6 percent. The CNN’s accuracy matched that of four genitourinary pathologists interpreting the SRH images. Broad Applicability Future studies will focus on the ability of the SRH CNN model to inform prostate cancer grading, an area not addressed in the current work. With ongoing validation studies and collaborations, Dr. Taneja expects the system to have broad applicability in prostate cancer settings. For example, the approach could improve biopsy targeting and reduce the number of biopsies required to establish a diagnosis. The technology could also be applied to intraoperative margin assessment for both radical prostatectomy and partial gland cryoablation. “We’ve already started testing the system in cryosurgery,” says Dr. Taneja. “In these settings,” the authors write, “the identification of prostate cancer adjacent to treatment margin may guide further treatment, making the identification of prostate cancer within one minute invaluable.” Samir Taneja, MD, is the James M. Neissa and Janet Riha Neissa Professor of Urologic Oncology, a professor of radiology, and vice chair of the Department of Urology. He specializes in the detection and treatment of prostate cancer. Latest in Urology Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Histotripsy, first developed two decades ago, has emerged as a groundbreaking tissue ablation technology with diverse potential applications , from benign prostatic hyperplasia to cardiovascular disease and cancer treatment. This noninvasive, non-ionizing, and non-thermal ablation method is guided by real-time imaging. Using short pulses of focused ultrasound, it mechanically destroys tissue through cavitation. A cloud of rapidly oscillating microbubbles pulverizes the target into acellular debris, which is eventually reabsorbed into the body. In a milestone decision in October 2023, the FDA approved the first clinical use of histotripsy for the treatment of primary and metastatic liver tumors. NYU Langone Health’s is the first facility in New York City to offer the technique, which has several advantages over previous methods. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH Unlike surgical ablation, histotripsy causes no bleeding, and minimal pain or scarring. It eliminates the “heat-sink” effect that limits thermal techniques near delicate structures such as bile ducts or blood vessels. Precision is further enhanced by dose-related tissue selectivity, and by continuous monitoring via ultrasound. “Histotripsy enables us to treat patients who are ineligible for surgery and who would not generally be candidates for ablation because their tumors are in locations that are unsafe to target with thermal techniques,” says surgical oncologist , who co-leads the histotripsy team at Perlmutter with interventional radiologist Mikhail Silk, MD . “This method has the potential to be first-line therapy for smaller tumors in the liver, though clinical trials for that application have not yet begun.” A Surprising Immunological Effect The FDA’s approval of histotripsy was informed by the multicenter, international #HOPE4LIVER trial, with a primary endpoint of technical success within 36 hours of treatment. The study found a primary efficacy of 95.5 percent in the 44 tumors treated, with a complication rate of 6.8 percent (comparable to other focal liver therapies). Results at six-month follow-up are expected to be published soon. Evidence suggests the technique can also have a more surprising effect: training the immune system to destroy tumors elsewhere in the liver, by revealing antigens normally hidden behind cancer cells’ outer membranes. This mechanism could also potentially prevent recurrence. “Histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment.” “In preclinical studies, histotripsy has been shown to have abscopal effects in subjects with additional disease not targeted by the treatment,” says Dr. Silk. “The data on these potential benefits is preliminary, but it provides a promising avenue for further research.” A Precise, Streamlined Procedure Hepatic histotripsy is delivered using a system that includes an imaging probe, a programming station, and a focused ultrasound transducer attached to a robotic arm. At NYU Langone, treatment is administered in the interventional radiology suite. After the patient is placed under anesthesia and intubated, the team performs a diagnostic ultrasound. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure,” says Dr. Hewitt. “We can treat 50 to 60 percent of the liver, including areas behind the ribs.” Once the target zone is visualized, the device is programmed to guide the transducer, working in increments of 3 to 6 millimeters. To minimize respiratory movement that could interfere with accuracy, patients receive jet ventilation. The bubble cloud acts as a natural contrast agent, allowing clinicians to calibrate and assess the treatment as they work. “If we can see the lesion, and it’s no larger than 4 centimeters, we can perform the procedure.” Dr. Hewitt The procedure, which takes about two hours from start to finish, requires little recovery time. And because histotripsy enables the body to reabsorb the targeted tissue, rather than leaving a necrotized remnant, long-term complications are rare. Improving Outcomes and the Patient Experience These benefits help explain why NYU Langone became one of the first health systems in the nation to deploy the new technique. “We have a longstanding commitment to leveraging innovative technology, and we’re fortunate to have the institutional resources to make that possible,” says Dr. Hewitt, who also leads Perlmutter’s robotic pancreatic surgery program—the highest-volume practice of its kind in the city. “Our adoption of histotripsy reflects our central mission: to improve outcomes, and to optimize the overall experience for the patient.” Brock Hewitt, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor in the Department of Surgery. His research interests focus on improving outcomes in surgical oncology. Vascular and Interventional Radiology Mikhail Silk, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Radiology. His research centers on improving diagnosis and treatment of hepatobiliary cancers. Latest in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Robotic Liver Resection Matches Open Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma In a large study, both methods showed similar efficacy—with an edge for robotics in LOS and complications. Reevaluating the Routine Use of Open Colon Resection Study shows minimally invasive surgery has clear benefits in morbidity, mortality, and cost. Our Orthopedic Areas of Expertise we know that when it comes to orthopedic health, everyone is unique. That’s why we tailor our programs, services, and centers to match our focused expertise with your own, unique orthopedic health needs. Brachial Plexus Care Concussion, Fractures, and Trauma Dance Injuries Hand Care Joint Care Limb Salvage and Reconstruction Orthopedic Centers and Hospitals NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center NYU Langone Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center Orthopedic Care for Children Regenerative Care Orthobiologics and Regenerative Medicine Physical and Occupational Therapy Physical Medicine Services Second Opinion Surgical Specialties Reconstructive Surgery Thank you for your interest in contacting NYU Langone Health. We look forward to addressing your question or concern. Please use one of the resources below to get more information, based on the nature of your inquiry. 646-929-7870 For help finding a doctor, please call 646-929-7875 search for a specific doctor . If you’re trying to reach a specific location, please browse our list of locations for direct contact information. 646-929-7880 Patient Relations at 646-929-7885 Medical Education Information 646-929-7890 admissions@med.nyu.edu Vilcek Institute of Graduate Biomedical Sciences (MD/PhD program) 212-263-5648 vilcek-info@nyulangone.org Residency and Fellowship Programs 646-929-7900 Continuing Medical Education (CME) 646-929-7905 Office of Alumni Relations 646-929-7910 alumni@med.nyu.edu Media Information Office of Communications and Marketing Fundraising Information 646-929-7955 Career Opportunities Human Resources 212-404-3618 (Recruitment and staffing) 800-367-5690 or theworknumber.com (Employment verification; our employer code is 13600) Faculty Group Practice NYU Langone’s Faculty Group Practice (FGP) members are a group of more than 3,000 doctors employed by NYU Langone. Other doctors on our website may be affiliated with NYU Langone, but be in private practice. The FGP office provides support to FGP practices throughout the tri-state area to keep them running smoothly for patients, physicians, and office administrators. Real Estate Development and Facilities askRED+F@nyulangone.org How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health adult neurology residency program , one of the country’s largest, is expanding to meet growing demand. In the next recruitment cycle, the program anticipates accepting 13 residents to train in Manhattan, 5 in Brooklyn, and 3 on Long Island Here, program director Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD discusses the distinctive program features—shaped by NYU Langone’s location and approach to patient care—that position it as a top choice for neurologists-in-training. She also details how the program’s innovative curriculum prepares trainees for telehealth, leadership, and other essential skills. The Lure of Diverse Cases and Cutting-Edge Tech Dr. Kurzweil, NYU Langone’s adult neurology residency program attracts trainees from across the globe. What stands out about the program? Dr. Kurzweil: One big draw is the diversity—of New York City’s population and of the unparalleled diversity of cases we see, from simple to highly complex neurological disorders. Our residents regularly encounter the kind of “unicorn” cases that a practicing neurologist might never see in their career, while also gaining exposure to our subspecialty programs, such as neurosurgical and stroke care. Another draw is our institutional knowledge and innovative approach to care. Put simply, the same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training. “The same reasons patients seek care here—our high degree of expertise and access to the latest research and diagnostic and treatment tools—also draws neurologists-in-training.” Arielle Kurzweil, MD By nature of our approach, our residents develop familiarity with advanced tools such as neuromodulation and high intensity focused ultrasound for movement disorders, and transcranial direct current stimulation for multiple sclerosis. They also observe procedures that are unique to NYU Langone, such as complex epilepsy surgeries through our —one of the country’s largest centers for focused epilepsy care. Exploring Unique Interests The program also offers electives and specific ‘tracks’ to residents interested in focusing their training. Can you tell us about those? For residents with a particular interest in global health or who just want to understand the specialty in a global context, we offer specialty training through the Division of Global Health . Two residents per year accompany division director Jaydeep M. Bhatt, MD , to resource-constrained countries such as Ghana and Uganda. Since neurology is a rare specialty in those areas, the residents gain the experience of both providing patient care with limited resources and educating fellow clinicians to do the same. Additionally, we offer both an education and a research track, with one resident per class in each track. In the education track, a resident interested in a career that incorporates medical education can further develop their teaching skills and work on an education-related project with a mentor. In the new research track, a resident takes on research more expansively, with dedicated time and mentoring to develop a project and scholarly publication. All of our trainees gain exposure to applied research through our patient-oriented research curriculum. That curriculum is integrated into our training throughout the year, providing residents with an overview of the basic principles of neurology research—and how they apply to clinical care. Practicing the Science—and Art—of Patient Care Neurologic disease can present with a wide range of symptoms, and many rare diseases fall within the specialty as well. How do you prepare residents to pinpoint a diagnosis and then manage often-complex cases? The multidisciplinary nature of NYU Langone yields the type of collaboration that is often needed to reach a diagnosis, particularly in rare or unsolved cases, and we come together quarterly to discuss those cases. We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills. “We also emphasize to our residents that they need more than procedural skills in neurology to manage challenging cases and situations, they also need communication and interpersonal skills.” New York Simulation Center for the Health Sciences (NYSIM) is a valuable resource that helps our residents develop these communication skills, ensuring they are well prepared for both the science and art of neurology practice. In addition to learning to run stroke codes or perform lumbar punctures in the center, they get to practice patient encounters and interactions with nurses and emergency department doctors. For example, residents interact with an actor playing the role of a patient whose workup indicates amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In a live simulation, a resident experiences what it’s like to deliver that difficult diagnosis and discuss next steps, refining their delivery as needed to ensure sensitivity and compassion along with medical accuracy. The need for these complementary skills has also grown with the increased use of telemedicine, particularly since the pandemic. Our teleneurology training guides residents through the nuances of a virtual exam, which they also practice through simulation center sessions. Fostering a Supportive Environment What about the residents themselves—what initiatives help to make the experience of training at NYU Langone resident-centric? It’s important to us that residents to feel supported and engaged throughout their training here. Our chief resident leadership curriculum supports residents transitioning to chief resident roles. These residents work alongside program leadership to manage various aspects of the program, and they serve as role models for junior trainees. The one-day curriculum for rising chief residents includes discussion of key leadership topics, followed by a simulation activity in which residents navigate challenging hypothetical situations with junior trainees and faculty. We were asked to present on this unique program at the American Academy of Neurology’s annual meeting earlier this year. We also take a deliberate approach to mentorship, fostering connections between faculty and residents, as well as between senior and junior residents. It’s part of our proactive approach to enhance the residency experience and prevent burnout. We even have a simulation on this topic, in which residents are challenged to identify signs of burnout in colleagues What is one of the most important lessons you’ve learned as program director? Overall, in my eight years as program director, I have learned that running a training program is a real team effort. Recruiting team-oriented trainees—and cultivating that team spirit—is crucial to success. Importantly, we work to balance inpatient and outpatient neurology training and optimize trainee education, emphasizing flexibility and openness to feedback and change. As a result, residents who graduate from our program tend to embody that sense of openness and adaptability as they move forward into their careers. Neurology, Neuromuscular Medicine Arielle M. Kurzweil, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Neurology Residency. Her research interests include medical education and innovations in medical training, with an emphasis on utilizing simulation and teleneurology. Latest in Neurology Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Mary Pat Gallagher, MD. Source: Hassenfeld Children's Hospital at NYU Langone is a leader in diabetes care nationwide. One of 33 pediatric programs in the T1D Exchange Quality Improvement Collaborative , the center’s success in achieving excellent glycemic outcomes is the result of deliberate planning, hard work, and collaboration. Here, pediatric endocrinologist and center director , who is also director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes , discusses the distinctive features—shaped by Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital child- and family-centered approach to care—that position it as a top choice and model for pediatric diabetes management. You’ve led the Pediatric Diabetes Center since 2016. What keeps you motivated today? Dr. Gallagher: Managing diabetes in children and adolescents presents unique challenges compared with adults. Things like family dynamics, developmental stages, self-care skills, and supervision in educational environments are among the unique factors that must be considered. What keeps me going after more than two decades of practice is helping patients and families navigate the complexities of care. “What I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team.” Along with that, what I find most rewarding is when a family expresses their relief and reduced stress after interacting with our team. We have a unique collaboration with our KiDS of NYU Foundation Integrated Behavioral Health Program, which provides on-site mental health services within the center. We want to provide families with support and education as part of their care in a field that is rapidly changing. That’s why the quest to improve the quality of the care we deliver never ends. The center has achieved outstanding glycemic outcomes for patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D). What actions are driving these results? First and foremost, we strongly support the use of the latest diabetes technology. We recommend that all of our patients with T1D use a continuous glucose monitoring device and hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. In New York State, public insurance has covered diabetes devices for years We are in a fortunate position to have this benefit, unlike many other states. Measure T1D Collaborative Goal Outcome Measures HbA1c < 7% 25% 44% Median HbA1c <8 % 7.3% Time in Range     >70% >25% 34% Process Measures CGM use >70% 94% Pump Use >65% 85% The T1D Collaborative set specific goals for outcomes and process measures. The performance metrics for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital are listed in the far-right column, with all four measures achieved. Under our protocols, patients are placed on sensors right after diagnosis. Within six weeks of diagnosis, most patients will be using a hybrid closed-loop insulin pump. By making the use of technology standard, we have been able to help families achieve excellent glycemic outcomes. There is still ample opportunity to enhance patient outcomes. My expectation is that outcome measures will continue to improve as we develop new interventions and refine technologies, in addition to sharing best practices with each other through efforts like the T1D Collaborative. Education and patient support are also central to the center’s success. Can you tell us about these efforts? Our education and training start at the time of diagnosis and continue over the course of our relationship with the person with diabetes. The goal is to equip patients and their families with the necessary self-management skills. Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system. We also focus on identifying and addressing differences in learning styles and neurocognitive challenges. This allows us to modify education and management tools based on the needs of each individual. “Our team personalizes diabetes education based on the patient’s age, language, family dynamics, and support system.” We also have the Helping Schools Care for Children with Type 1 Diabetes program, which equips school nurses and staff with the knowledge and training they need to support students with T1D. Our certified diabetes care and education specialists visit our patients’ schools to deliver this crucial education, ensuring children and adolescents with T1D can succeed during the school day. To date, the team has provided education and support for over 280 schools and daycare facilities throughout New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. Last, we aim to be easily accessible to patients and their families, offering various communication channels to reach us, including text messaging during daytime hours. Research indicates that providing accessible care and timely responses to questions enhances a patient’s self-efficacy and ability to manage their condition independently. Regarding new interventions, the Pediatric Diabetes Center is among the few pediatric centers nationwide offering teplizumab. What has the center’s experience been in treating patients with this drug? FDA recently approved teplizumab , the first disease-modifying treatment for T1D—it’s truly a milestone in both research and clinical practice. While it’s not a cure, the CD3-directed antibody was shown to delay progression to stage 3 T1D in both adults and children age 8 years and older who had stage 2 preclinical T1D—defined as two positive antibodies and dysglycemia. The antibody is infused once daily for 14 consecutive days. Close supervision is required for people receiving this therapy, and given the specifics around dosing and administration, not all centers possess the specialized expertise to offer the treatment. Patients have been referred to us by many hospitals in the local area. Side effects are usually mild but can be significant, and consist of cytokine release syndrome, low white blood cell counts, and liver enzyme elevations. Anecdotally, most patients who have received the therapy seem to have tolerated it well. Finally, what does the open discussion and support from the T1D Collaborative mean to you and your peers? We are truly grateful for the continued support of the collaborative. From every part of the country, participating clinics are focused on one thing—improving the quality of life and overall health of youth and adults living with T1D. In a brief span of time, the learning collaborative has grown tremendously and is proving its ability to positively impact the lives of people living with diabetes. Mary Pat Gallagher, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics, director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, and director of the Pediatric Diabetes Center. Her research and clinical interests center on children and adolescents with diabetes. To refer a patient, browse our Latest in Diabetes & Endocrinology Sleep Center Leads in Primary Aldosteronism Screening A screening protocol deployed in sleep centers boosts the detection of primary aldosteronism. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries A recent study by researchers at NYU Langone Health provides some of the first evidence that SARS-CoV-2 can directly infect coronary tissue, including coronary immune cells. Their findings, published in Nature Cardiovascular Research , shed mechanistic insight into how COVID-19 infection contributes to elevated risk of ischemic cardiac events in individuals with atherosclerosis. “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events.” Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD “This is the first evidence of a possible direct linkage between SARS-CoV-2 infection, the inflammatory response, and cardiovascular events,” says study senior author and cardiologist COVID-19 and Cardiac Risk SARS-CoV-2 infection increases the risk of acute myocardial infarction and stroke for up to a year after the initial infection. Cytokine storms—an extreme inflammatory response arising from infection—are presumed to be a factor. But what happens at the cellular level in the vasculature? The new study was designed to uncover any direct impacts on the coronary vasculature, and researchers hypothesized that immune cells, such as macrophages, could be involved. Artificial Intelligence Amps Up Viral Detection Their analysis detected the virus within the arteries of eight men and women with a history of atherosclerosis who had died of COVID-19. The authors trained a neural network artificial intelligence program to measure viral RNA levels, specifically in cells infiltrating the arterial wall. In addition to infecting arterial tissue, viral RNA was also detected in infiltrating macrophages. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “This study definitively shows that SARS-CoV-2 can infect and replicate in macrophages in the coronary vasculature of individuals with COVID-19.” Viral replication levels were highest in samples classified as “pathological intimal thickening with macrophage infiltration”—believed to be the precursor phase to atherosclerotic plaque formation Preferential Infection of Foam Cells Not all macrophages appear to be equally susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study findings revealed that macrophages rich in engulfed fat, called foam cells, were infected more frequently and for longer periods than typical macrophages. According to the researchers, this suggests that the coronavirus may persist more easily in people with large amounts of plaque buildup in their arteries, partly explaining why those with atherosclerosis are more susceptible to COVID-19. Provoking an Inflammatory Response The experiments showed that in response to infection, the macrophages release cytokines known to promote a chronic immune response. The researchers note that two identified cytokines, interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6, are tied to heart attacks. This heightened state of inflammation may facilitate the formation and rupture of arterial plaques, impeding blood flow, explains Dr. Giannarelli. Understanding of Long COVID “These results shed light on a possible connection between preexisting heart issues and long COVID symptoms,” says Dr. Giannarelli. “It appears that the immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” “The immune cells most involved in atherosclerosis may serve as a reservoir for the virus, allowing it to persist in the body over time.” As a result, the research team next plans to explore more closely this potential link between the coronavirus’s behavior during atherosclerosis and long COVID, whose symptoms may include heart palpitations, chest pain, and fatigue. Dr. Giannarelli adds that because the current study analyzed tissue infected with viral strains that spread throughout New York City early in the pandemic, the authors are investigating any differences after exposure to newer variants and the protective effects of vaccination. Cardiology, Pathology Chiara Giannarelli, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and pathology. Her research interests include immune mechanisms of atherosclerosis and treatment of atherosclerosis. 646-987-3538 Latest in Cardiology NYU Langone Health Presenters at the AHA 2024 Scientific Sessions See the NYU Langone Health experts who are joining colleagues in Chicago, November 16 to 18. Reassuring News on GLP-1 Agonists & Suicide First-of-its-kind meta-analysis finds no evidence of heightened risk in patients treated for weight loss or diabetes management. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Aaron M. Johnson, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health Treatment decisions for voice disorders are largely based on either-or thinking: Is the problem due to injury to the outer vibratory layers of the mucosa or dysfunction of the underlying muscle? But , co-director of NYU Langone’s , suspects complex interactions between the mucosa and muscle may be in play that could inform new targeted therapies. “What we’re proposing is that there are mechanistic reactions of the muscle itself in response to chronic phonotrauma of the outer vibratory layers that may lead to functional deficits,” Dr. Johnson says. “So even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper, problem.” “What we’re proposing is that … even when we think the cause of the voice problem is superficial injury, targeting the muscle may help treat an underlying, unseen, deeper problem.” To test this hypothesis and others, Dr. Johnson was recently awarded a prestigious five-year grant of $3.2 million from the NIH When Phonotrauma Persists Injuries to the vocal folds may occur the morning after a night of cheering at a concert, baseball game, or other event, when people often wake up with a sore throat and raspy voice. “All of us experience what we call phonotrauma, which is when we use our voice with a lot of intensity or over a long period of time,” Dr. Johnson explains. In many cases, the symptoms of phonotrauma resolve with rest. “The fact that we don’t have voice disorders all the time is amazing to me,” Dr. Johnson says, “given our vocal folds collide with each other hundreds of thousands of times each day.” However, repeated phonotrauma can lead to phonotraumatic dysphonia, a specific voice disorder that causes an abnormal or hoarse voice. The disorder often affects those who rely heavily on their voice for their profession, such as teachers, singers, lawyers, and politicians. If left unaddressed, phonotraumatic dysphonia can further progress into vocal hyperfunction, which involves the dysfunction and tensing of the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle, the primary muscle of the vocal fold, as well as the surrounding musculature in the neck. Vocal hyperfunction has long been viewed as a natural behavioral response to phonotrauma. “But it can also exacerbate the problem,” Dr. Johnson says, “and create a vicious cycle of people straining more, which causes more phonotrauma, which creates more vocal hyperfunction.” Mucosa–Muscle Interactions To look more closely at a bidirectional relationship between the mucosal tissue and muscle layers of the vocal fold, Dr. Johnson is collaborating with Ryan Branski, PhD , vice chair of research for otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. The team’s initial in vitro cell–cell interaction studies focused on what might happen when fibroblasts from the mucosa and myoblasts from the muscle commingle. Published in the Annals of Otology, Rhinology & Laryngology their findings revealed that fibroblasts have a largely negative impact on myoblasts, potentially leading to a delay in the growth and regeneration of muscle. Conversely, the impact of myoblasts on fibroblasts was positive. “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the laryngeal muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa,” Dr. Johnson says. “On the other hand, when there is muscle dysfunction, that may lead to a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” “That study demonstrated that laryngeal myoblasts have a favorable effect on fibroblasts, suggesting that when the muscle is healthy it may support a healthy mucosa.” To clarify the mechanisms involved and identify potential therapeutic targets, the team aims to conduct follow-up studies characterizing unique fibroblast–myoblast signals and their interaction with inflammatory cells from the vocal folds. Elsewhere in the body, researchers have long known that muscle, such as skeletal muscle, is involved in an inflammatory response to injury. But Dr. Johnson says that “really nobody, up until our work, has looked at the response of laryngeal muscle to similar types of injury elicited by phonotrauma.” A Focus on Vocal Trauma Depth In another line of experiments, the team aims to compare how the thyroarytenoid muscle responds to both shallow vocal fold injuries and deep injuries that extend into the thyroarytenoid muscle itself. For this work, he and colleagues are leveraging Dr. Johnson’s experience with a unique behavioral model, rodent vocalizations Rats communicate via whistles in the ultrasonic range. The vocalizations, which resemble sped-up birdcalls, don’t rely on vibrating vocal folds but rather an air jet that resonates through a hole to create whistling noises. Although not a perfect approximation, the whistling uses the same muscles as human vocalizations, making the system a useful model for looking at neuromuscular changes within the larynx. Three rat ultrasonic vocalizations recorded in Dr. Johnson’s lab, combined and slowed down to a range audible to humans. Source: NYU Langone Health In their rat model, the researchers create a superficial injury to the outer vibratory layers of the vocal folds to approximate phonotrauma in humans. A second, deeper injury extends into the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle. The researchers then record the rodents’ vocalizations before and at multiple points after each type of injury to see how depth of injury affects recovery of the vocalizations. The team suspects that in both conditions, the frequency complexity of the vocalizations will be reduced because of changes in the muscle. They will confirm their vocalization findings with direct ex vivo measurements of the contractile properties of the thyroarytenoid muscle. Additionally, the researchers plan to compile and compare the full proteome of the thyroarytenoid muscle in both healthy and injured states. In a previous proteomic characterization of laryngeal muscles from rats , Dr. Johnson and collaborators analyzed the relative abundance of roughly 1,000 proteins, demonstrating how the same technique could be applied to do a deeper dive into the extent and nature of muscle changes after vocal trauma. “Collectively, these studies will help us understand the complex interplay between vocal fold mucosal injuries and the underlying thyroarytenoid muscle and hopefully lead to improved diagnosis and treatment of voice disorders,” says Dr. Johnson. Speech Pathology, Otolaryngology, Laryngology & Voice Aaron M. Johnson, PhD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery and rehabilitation medicine who works as a clinical speech–language pathologist. He is co-director of the Voice Center and conducts research on phonotrauma, vocal training, and aging on the muscles of the larynx. Latest in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Gene Therapy for Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy Shows Promising Results BB-301 is the first experimental gene therapy for OPMD to reach clinical trials. The first two patients treated exhibit improved symptoms. Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Referral Notes: The Platelet Reactivity ExpresSion Score (PRESS) is the first tool to assess platelet reactivity using genetic signatures. In one study to validate the tool, PRESS was higher in women who had a heart attack than those with stable heart disease. In another study, patients with atherosclerosis and a PRESS above the median were 90 percent more likely to experience a major cardiovascular event. The PRESS tool could enable more personalized treatment decisions, such as prescribing anti-platelet therapies like aspirin, based on individual platelet function. Cardiologists have long known that increased platelet reactivity is a risk factor for cardiovascular events, yet limited tools exist to identify individuals with a hyperreactive platelet phenotype. In a study recently published in Nature Communications , researchers at NYU Langone Health developed the first