Breast Surgical Oncology Acclaimed breast surgeon Dr. Mary Gemignani discusses her approach to leadership, education, and holistic care. Enhancing the Hospital Experience with Midwifery Care Eugenia Montesinos, CNM. Source: NYU Langone Health. Midwives’ natural approach to care was the most prevalent method to childbirth until the 18th century, when clinical institutions began challenging their approach. They regained their strength in the 1960s, during the consumer childbirth revolution, and continue to fulfill an important role in women’s healthcare. Research shows that outcomes improve for parents and their babies when they have access to midwifery care, including reduced rates of preterm birth, low birth weight, cesarean birth, and neonatal death. To address growing demand, the division of midwifery services is rapidly ramping up throughout NYU Langone Health’s Brooklyn and Manhattan campuses. Here, Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, discusses her new role as director of . She also highlights the importance of having the midwifery option for pregnant patients and the impact on maternal outcomes. Offering Pregnant Patients Another Option You are NYU Langone’s first director of midwifery services. What is your new role, and why has this position been created? Montesinos: I will be overseeing the hospital-based midwifery program at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, leading a team of seven board-certified midwives (both certified nurse midwives, CNMs, and certified midwives, CMs). We will cover labor and delivery in the hospital 24/7, seven days per week. As midwives, which means “with woman,” we advocate for physiological birth whenever possible and the judicious use of intervention only when medically necessary. We offer holistic support, empowering women to make informed choices while ensuring their physical, emotional, and social needs are met through every step of this transformative journey. As in-house care providers, we care for low-risk pregnant patients with a completely holistic approach. For high-risk patients seeking care from a midwife, we provide co-managed, collaborative care in partnership with our physician team, including general obstetricians and maternal–fetal medicine physicians. Andrew F. Rubenstein, MD , director of the Division of General Obstetrics and Gynecology, saw the necessity to provide hospital-based midwifery care. More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. My role was created because we wanted to offer the option to low-risk pregnant patients. “More women are starting to know what midwifery is, and they’re asking for it. We wanted to offer that option to low-risk pregnant patients.” Eugenia Montesinos, CNM Patients Seek a Trusted Confidant What do patients tell you they want and need from midwifery care? Montesinos Midwifery care emphasizes pregnancy as a natural physiologic process, and women are driving the demand of this kind of care. What truly defines midwifery care is the individualized approach. Midwives are more than providers. We are supporters, confidants, and advocates for the women we serve. Women tell us they want the personalized labor and delivery approach we provide, but they also like knowing an obstetrician team is available in the hospital in case they need medical intervention. Support Through Pregnancy and Beyond How will these services fit in with the broader OB/GYN healthcare structure? In addition to managing labor and deliveries at Tisch Hospital in collaboration with the OB/GYN team, we provide routine obstetric and gynecologic care to women at the . Midwives can provide prenatal care and conduct wellness visits and pelvic exams, diagnose and treat gynecologic conditions, and provide contraception and preventive care and screenings through all phases of life, from adolescence to the postreproductive years. Expanding Exemplary Maternal Care What are your top priorities for your role and the department? I aspire to set new standards of excellence in care. I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey. “I envision NYU Langone as a beacon of exemplary maternal care, where each woman receives compassionate, evidence-based, and culturally sensitive care tailored to her unique journey.” As midwives, we strive to empower and nurture women through one of life’s most significant experiences, ensuring they feel supported, informed, and cherished every step of the way. My top priority is to provide the midwifery care model to every woman seeking this form of care and to introduce this model to those seeking alternative options, such as first-time mothers and mothers seeking care after a cesarean birth. Midwifery, Obstetrics and Gynecology Eugenia Montesinos, CNM, is the director of midwifery services at NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital. She has provided midwifery care for over 23 years in private practices and hospitals across various New York City boroughs, including NYC Health + Hospitals, the largest municipal healthcare delivery system in the United States. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors The minimally invasive approach offers a promising, nonsurgical alternative for benign and cancerous nodules. PHOTO: Getty Images In use for over a decade in Europe and Asia, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) was FDA approved in 2018 for treatment of soft tissue tumors, paving the way for use in the thyroid. In the thyroid, it is most commonly used for benign nodules or nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. Benefits include elimination or reduction of the nodule and associated symptoms, enabling patients to discontinue medications otherwise necessary to control hyperthyroidism, via a minimally invasive outpatient procedure typically performed in under an hour. Additionally, there is accumulating evidence supporting RFA’s efficacy for small intrathyroidal cancers that otherwise would be treated with surgery, says , a professor of medicine in endocrinology. Both Dr. Hodak and , chief of the Division of Endocrine Surgery, are founding members of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, a newly established group advocating for the use and evolution of such minimally invasive methods as RFA. “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases.” “We’re just beginning to realize how RFA can be applied to transform outcomes in complex thyroid tumor cases,” says Dr. Hodak. “It can offer clear benefits as an alternative to standard surgery in appropriately selected patients.” Precisely Targeted Treatment NYU Langone Health is an early adopter of RFA for thyroid tumors, among the first in a growing number of centers offering the approach in and beyond New York. The ablation procedure involves a seven inch needle with an active electrode at the tip used to deliver high-frequency energy. The patient is usually lightly sedated. Using continous ultrasound visualization, the physician positions the needle in the thyroid nodule, where the energy is applied in a targeted manner to destroy tumor tissue without damaging surrounding structures. “The key to success in RFA is being skilled enough to completely destroy the nodule, whether a benign symptomatic nodule, a hyperfunctioning nodule that causes hyperthyroidism, or a small cancer,” says Dr. Patel. “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “Completeness of treatment is the key to a good outcome.” “We use something called the moving shot technique,” notes Dr. Hodak. “This involves repositioning the needle within the nodule with almost stereotactic precision, so that energy is delivered throughout the entire volume of the nodule until most or all of the tumor tissue has been destroyed.” Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel work in collaboration with Chelsey K. Baldwin, MD . During a procedure, one physician delivers the therapy while another physician and a medical assistant support any needs that arise during treatment. A Promising Option for Complex Cases The team’s first RFA case was a uniquely complex one involving a 60-year-old female patient with thyroid cancer. The patient had near complete vocal cord paralysis and a severely compromised airway. As she was considered high-risk for complete vocal cord paralysis with further surgery, her slow-growing thyroid cancer had been followed without treatment. When the patient developed kidney failure, the active thyroid cancer precluded eligibility for the transplant waitlist. With surgery contraindicated, Dr. Hodak and Dr. Patel recommended RFA. The successful procedure completely extirpated the thyroid cancer and the patient became eligible for a renal transplant. “It was one of the most complicated cases we’ve ever done, and it was the first,” says Dr. Hodak. “Among all patients we’ve ever treated with RFA, it illustrated the power of this approach. RFA allowed the patient to have a life-sustaining kidney transplant.” Dr. Hodaks says that, in general, patients who have RFA report symptomatic improvement within one to two weeks. Incremental tumor reduction is typically as high as 50 percent at six months and 90 percent within one year. Envisioning Future Applications The team expresses confidence that RFA will continue to gain traction for a range of thyroid applications. “RFA is exploding in the U.S. because the need for it is so appreciated,” says Dr. Hodak. “Once the reimbursement is established as we generate more outcomes data, this is going to be commonplace, broadly available and transformative.” Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The ICF-CY provides a common language and holistic clinical reasoning framework for interdisciplinary care of children and youth with disabilities. SOURCE: WHO, 2001, 2007. A diagram of the components of the ICF-CY, illustrating how a health condition is comprised of both function and dysfunction with interactions of environmental and personal factors. ADAPTED FROM: WHO, 2001, 2007 A diagram exemplifying the ICF-CY framework applied to pre- and post-amputation care for an adolescent with a rare cancer necessitating limb amputation. ADAPTED FROM: J Pediatr Rehabil Med . 2023 May 8. Over the past several decades, chronic health conditions and disabilities among children and youth have steadily risen . Despite this, the adoption and utilization of interdisciplinary models of rehabilitation care have been slow In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) published the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health for Children and Youth (ICF-CY), a biopsychosocial framework for interdisciplinary care of children and adolescents with disabilities. “Even though ICF-CY was published roughly two decades ago and there are evidence-based recommendations in regard to its implementation, it has yet to be fully implemented in medical education and practice within the United States,” says , a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients.” According to Dr. Sukhov, adherence to WHO principles can help facilitate comprehensive, multidisciplinary rehabilitation care, noting that these principles, when applied correctly, are useful for managing medically complex pediatric patients. His team has published several case reports detailing the successful implementation of the ICF-CY in complex cases, including an 18-year-old with osteosarcoma in the setting of Li-Fraumeni syndrome necessitating amputation, a 14-year-old with congenital heart disease who experienced sudden cardiac arrest, and a 13-year-old with a spinal cord injury as a complication of an aneurysmal bone cyst. In clinical settings, implementation of the model has been shown to optimize child participation, improve quality of life assessments and value-based care delivery systems, and streamline medical management, Dr. Sukhov says. Given prolonged hospitalization, for example, some patients report feeling psychologically drained and a desire to go home to be with their family. However, environmental barriers may preclude safe discharge. By applying the framework, environmental and psychological factors can be prioritized, facilitating patients’ return home, fully functional, both quickly and safely. “Interdisciplinary adoption of the ICF-CY common language is not only feasible but beneficial for complex pediatric patients,” says Dr. Sukhov. For best outcomes, pediatric physiatrists should be consulted as early as possible, and while a physiatrist is likely the most qualified to introduce, implement, and guide the use of ICF principles, Dr. Sukhov explains that they can be tailored and applied by the entire medical team for better patient care. Renat R. Sukhov, MD, is a pediatric physiatrist and a clinical associate professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for children and adolescents with complex injuries. Recipient of a landmark transplant performed up to five hours of rehabilitation daily—and was constantly pushing for more. Intensive Rehabilitation: A Key to Success Following a devastating car accident, 22-year-old Joe DiMeo underwent the world’s first full face and bilateral forearm transplantation, regaining significant improvement in both his function and quality of life. The pioneering surgical team was led by , chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. Central to Mr. DiMeo’s recovery and success was intensive rehabilitation at the Rusk Rehabilitation inpatient unit , a world-renowned expert in rehabilitation medicine. “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily.” “The patient underwent several weeks of demanding rehabilitation activities, often up to five hours daily,” Dr. Cohen says. “For example, he completed therapeutic exercises involving his hands to improve his grip strength, as well as activities designed to improve his fine motor dexterity. Overall, the results were spectacular.” Upon discharge,Mr. DiMeo continued outpatient rehabilitation with NYU Langone Health’s partner organization, myFace , which provides individuals who have craniofacialdeficits with comprehensive care by funding medical, surgical, dental, psychosocial support, travel, and housing. His outpatient rehabilitation included speech therapy Remarkably, Mr. DiMeo experienced significant improvement in several clinical and functional outcomes, including psychological status, vision, grip strength, fine motor dexterity, upper extremity strength, and range of motion, as well as sitting balance and basic self-care skills. “Some of his personal goals were to be able to cook and throw a ball to his dog, both of which he accomplished,” Dr. Cohen says. “He also successfully relearned to smile—the team used imagery of a happy thought, which improved his buccal movement.” This work was supported by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs through the Reconstructive Transplantation Research Award Program under award no. W81XWH-15-2-0036. Opinions, interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations are those of the author and are not necessarily endorsed by the Department of Defense. Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, is the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery. He is also director of the Face Transplant Program. Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD, is a clinical professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is also director of the Cardiopulmonary/Medically Complex Service at Rusk Rehabilitation. Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Critical Presentation Yields Discovery of Life-Threatening Clot A 15-year-old girl with a family history of clotting disorders, a history of hormonal supplementation treatment for irregular menses, and recent complaints of chest pain was diagnosed with a pulmonary embolism in another hospital’s emergency department after the patient lost consciousness at home. Though the care team immediately stabilized the patient with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO), they were not equipped to manage ECMO in pediatric patients. , surgical director of NYU Langone Health’s , was contacted to transfer the patient’s care to , where a multidisciplinary team mobilized. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work.” “We quickly choreographed the specialists, timing, and an operating room’s worth of equipment needed to safely transport this patient to our care,” says Dr. Fisher. The first step was to transfer her from the other hospital’s ECMO circuit to NYU Langone’s mobile ECMO unit. “She had a near complete occlusion of cardiac output,” notes , director of pediatric critical care, so the team carefully titrated medications to keep the patient stable during the transfer, then managed her on the new machine until arriving safely at that Pediatric Intensive Care Unit There, Frederic J. Bertino, MD , director of pediatric interventional radiology, planned endovascular treatment of the emboli. When further imaging revealed blood vessel damage and bleeding from the femoral artery from the initial, emergent ECMO placement—contraindicating thrombolytic treatment—Dr. Bertino elected to apply mechanical thrombectomy. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry. It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Using the approach, rarely performed in pediatric patients, Dr. Bertino guided a flexible catheter through an incision in the patient’s neck into the pulmonary artery, using a syringe to create suction that removed the clots. “The nuance was in ensuring we didn’t compete with the suction also created by ECMO circuitry, which could introduce air embolism,” explains Dr. Bertino. “It required experienced, careful coordination with the perfusionist.” Following further collaboration with the vascular surgery team to repair the prior vessel injury from the patient’s groin to the retroperitoneal space, the patient stabilized quickly, coming off ECMO within 24 hours of her arrival. “This case was our multidisciplinary system at work—experienced coordination, combining our expertise in pediatric critical care and a novel interventional approach to deliver a good outcome for a critically ill patient,” says Dr. Fisher. Vascular & Interventional Radiology Frederic J. Bertino, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of radiology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of pediatric interventional radiology at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on minimally invasive pediatric procedures, adult and pediatric venous thromboembolic disease (PE and DVT), chronic venous occlusion, vascular malformations, and lymphatic disorders. Arun Chopra, MD, is an associate professor of pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and director of the division of pediatric critical care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. His clinical interests focus on extracorporeal circuits and pharmacokinetics of therapeutic medications. Jason C. Fisher, MD, is a pediatric surgeon, director of children’s surgical services for Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He conducts clinical research focused on congenital diaphragmatic hernia and pediatric ECMO. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting See the neurosurgeons from NYU Langone Health who joined international colleagues in Chicago, May 3 to 6. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Combining natural language processing with EHR data allowed researchers to automate a clinical registry for spine surgery. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma Study offers a long-term view of middle meningeal artery embolization for chronic subdural hematoma. Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor Jason C. Fisher, MD, and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA Seamless collaboration between pediatric specialists at and adult providers at NYU Langone Health enabled an 11-year-old patient’s tracheal tumor, blocking 85 percent of the airway, to successfully be resected in less than 2 hours using robotic surgery The outcome demonstrates the pivotal strengths that come with having continuity between children’s and adult services. “This procedure could not have been done at any other children’s hospital,” says , surgical director of the . Dr. Fisher managed heparin-free extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support during the operation, minimizing the risk of surgical bleeding. “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half.” “Because we had the expertise to do it robotically, the tumor was removed with only four small incisions, and it took less than an hour and a half,” says Dr. Fisher. Making All the Right Moves The patient was admitted to the pediatric ICU for difficulty breathing, hypoxia, and other symptoms initially attributed to COVID-19. Although she responded to treatment, a chest CT was performed to understand the cause of a pneumothorax leaking air into the space between the lungs and the chest wall and up into the neck. That’s when the care team saw that a mass located close to the carina was causing a near-complete obstruction of the trachea. To collect a biopsy and debulk the tumor, pediatric pulmonologist Eleanor Muise, MD Jamie L. Bessich, MD , an interventional pulmonologist with the adult hospital, performed a rigid bronchoscopy. “That was a very elegant procedure. It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” “That was a very elegant procedure,” says Dr. Muise. “It enabled us to not only collect a tissue sample to direct definitive treatment but also ablate part of the tumor so that airway obstruction was no longer an imminent concern.” During the procedure, Dr. Fisher was ready with ECMO support in case the airway became occluded. “We didn’t need to put her on, but we had a pump and a team on standby,” he says. ECMO without Heparin Biopsy confirmed the tumor to be a soft tissue mass requiring tracheal resection and reconstruction, and world-renowned thoracic surgeon , performed the operation using a minimally invasive robotic approach. “There are no pediatric surgical specialists who can do what Dr. Cerfolio can do,” says Dr. Fisher. “The type of robotic surgery he does is in a league of its own. And he is right next door.” To optimize exposure and eliminate the need to ventilate the lungs during surgery, Dr. Fisher put the patient on ECMO. He and his team managed ECMO support without an anticoagulant, having deemed the risk of bleeding during the operation to be higher than the risk of clotting. “We have a very successful pediatric ECMO program, and we made the calculation that, based on the patient’s size, we could flow through the pump fast enough and that Dr. Cerfolio could operate with such efficiency that we could run ECMO without heparin,” says Dr. Fisher. “We were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” An Excellent Prognosis The patient will only require close follow-up as staging confirmed the cancer had not spread. Dr. Muise also completed a repeat bronchoscopy after the procedure, stating the tracheal anastomosis to be “beautiful and widely patent,” with no visual indication of abnormal mucosa in the area. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice, and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do. We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” The tumor was ultimately determined to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma, a type of salivary gland tumor more commonly seen in adults. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test revealed the specific gene fusion, CRTC3-MAML2 , that helped confirm the diagnosis. Colleagues in pediatric hematology–oncology Nicole Mallory, MD , consulted on the case, which was also presented to adult specialists at a tumor board. “That’s what we customarily do when we see more of an adult type of tumor in a child, ask for advice and work collaboratively with our adult partners who see these far more often than we do,” says Dr. Raetz. “We’re so fortunate that we have the capabilities of doing that here at the medical center.” Eleanor Muise, MD, is an assistant professor of pediatrics. She specializes in pediatric pulmonary medicine and lung transplant, and her clinical and research interests focus on tracheobronchomalacia, vaping-related lung injury, and aerodigestive disorders. Pediatric Hematology–Oncology Elizabeth A. Raetz, MD, is director of the Division of Pediatric Hematology–Oncology and the KiDS of NYU Foundation Professor of Pediatric Medicine. She specializes in the treatment of leukemia. A unique program trains local specialists to tackle unmet need among children with hearing loss. , is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and recently ended a nearly 14-year tenure as chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery . Here, Dr. Roland discusses how he and his team built a sustainable program for ENT care in Uganda, a first of its kind for the region. Developed with NYU Langone colleagues including Sean O. McMenomey, MD , the now-18-year collaboration with trainees and faculty at Makerere University has provided the support to increase education, equipment and surgical expertise . As described by Ugandan colleagues Dr. Chris Ndoleriire , chair of the department at Makerere University Dr. Amina Seguya , attending otologist, “This project is all about capacity building in our country and it has proven to be highly successful.” Dr. Roland continues to advocate for children with hearing loss by promoting awareness, providing education, and conducting research both abroad and in the diverse communities of New York City Hearing Loss: A Challenge in Uganda You’ve noted hearing impairment is a “silent epidemic” affecting millions in developing countries. As an otolaryngologist, how did you get started working in Uganda? Dr. Roland: Many years ago, my wife was working in adolescent medicine for an organization that helped to rehabilitate rescued child soldiers in Northern Uganda and provide them with housing, food, and medical care, as well as an education. While that organization no longer exists, it led me to connect with a local ENT specialist who had an interest in hearing. He knew a lot about the ears but lacked the resources to really treat ear disease and most hearing loss, and although he did have the ability to do limited testing for hearing impairment in his patients, screening on a large level was nearly impossible. I committed to help set up a program and during that initial time did not stop working—organizing the clinic, setting up equipment, reviewing cases, and performing surgery. “Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults.” Since then, I’ve gone back numerous times. Education is a key objective, so we focus on training local doctors to conduct hearing screenings and to perform ear surgery including cochlear implant surgery in children and adults. I bring teams of NYU Langone faculty, residents, and fellows to assist with the work. Designing a Sustainable Care Model Building a sustainable hearing loss screening and treatment program in a developing nation like Uganda is a formidable endeavour. How did you come up with the care model? The care and training model was designed in accordance with our local residency program’s goals and objectives. At regular intervals, clinical teams from NYU Langone will fly over to give lectures, see patients, and perform surgeries with the local physicians. Moreover, we partner with the local organizations to carry out health promotion activities. To be clear, it’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity. Over the years, our footprint has grown tremendously and we’ve established infrastructure including a temporal bone laboratory and hearing rehabilitation center , as well as an outpatient surgery center. It’s astonishing to see how far we’ve come. “It’s not about us flying over to provide treatment ourselves—we aspire to create sustainable capacity.” In fact, the program has been such a success that we’ve begun to publish findings (for example about feasibility implementation ). We omitted our own names from the publications to keep the focus on the doctors in Uganda. Breaking the Cycle of Dependency You’ve noted that your philosophy toward the unmet global need for hearing loss care is different than some nonprofits or nongovernmental organizations. Is the difference your focus on education and training? Yes, our focus is on equipping local doctors to succeed in the clinic. In most cases, the Ugandan doctors are treating the patients and performing the operations—we’re essentially there to educate and supervise. When I bring teams of young trainees from NYU Langone, I want them to realize that you don’t have to give a lot—all you have to do is give what you do each day. The Ugandan residents and fellows are exceptionally smart. All they need are competent teachers and equipment. Looking ahead, what are your plans for the future? We plan to start a year-long fellowship, in which a resident from Uganda with an interest in otology will spend 1 month here to learn our processes and organization and 11 months in Uganda learning with supervision under the direction of a U.S.-trained neurotologist and two Ugandan otologists. They will go through a board exam, present cases, and carry out a research project. It’s another exciting opportunity for collaboration that has evolved out of our relationships with Ugandan peers. Otology & Neurotology, Skull Base Surgery, Otolaryngology J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, is the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, a professor of neurosurgery, and served for nearly 14 years as the chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research interests include enhancing outcomes in cochlear and auditory brain stem implantation, skull base and acoustic tumor surgery, and neurofibromatosis. Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy Since its introduction in the United States in the mid-2010s, Descemet stripping only (DSO) has revolutionized the surgical management of Fuchs dystrophy. Although similar procedures were originally explored in the 1950s and for some time after, these met with little success. The current technique—pioneered in the United States by , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine—involves removal of the diseased endothelium and mound-shaped aggregates, known as guttae, without the need for a donor graft. Further advancing the treatment, Dr. Colby currently serves as the U.S. chair for two ongoing phase 3 trials evaluating whether a topical Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor administered in the weeks following DSO surgery simultaneous cataract and DSO surgery may enhance the efficacy of the procedures for treating Fuchs dystrophy. Early studies report the topical agent aids corneal restoration following DSO. NYU Langone enrolled the first patient in the world to one of the two phase 3 trials last summer. If successful, the trials may lead to FDA approval of topical ROCK inhibitor administration as an adjuvant therapy to DSO. “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period.” “Adjuvant ROCK inhibitor eye drop use could become standard practice following DSO cases in the early postoperative period,” Dr. Colby says. “New evidence suggests these agents can enhance final endothelial cell count after a tissue corneal transplantation as well.” Success with DSO As an alternative to corneal transplantation, DSO boasts no risk of graft rejection and eliminates the need for long-term immunosuppression with topical steroids, making it a highly attractive option. While the procedure has a high rate of success, it warrants careful patient selection, Dr. Colby explains. “Candidates must have Fuchs that is severe enough to cause symptoms, but not so severe that they don’t have any remaining peripheral endothelium,” she says. “They should also be comfortable with experiencing blurred vision for several weeks after the procedure and must be willing to proceed with a corneal transplant if necessary.” VIDEO: Dr. Colby performing the DSO procedure. From a surgical perspective, Dr. Colby adds that it is crucial to ensure a smooth edge and prevent leftover tags when removing the diseased tissue. “It’s clear that a smooth edge tear makes it easier for cells to migrate and repopulate the corneal endothelium.” Mounting Evidence for ROCK Inhibitors Interest in ROCK inhibitors for DSO has been growing since a 2017 study found that ripasudil, a ROCK inhibitor approved as a therapy for glaucoma in Japan, rescued two patients who had Fuchs dystrophy that was slow to clear. Additional research has shown that administration of topical ripasudil after DSO for Fuchs dystrophy results in earlier corneal restoration. As a result, Dr. Colby helped lead a recently completed phase 2 trial that evaluated ripasudil (K-321) in 65 patients undergoing DSO for Fuchs dystrophy. “Preliminary data from the phase 2 trial indicates improvements in the speed of healing and the final endothelial cell count, and a reduction in the failure rate for DSO,” she says. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population.” The ongoing phase 3 trials will each evaluate an additional 100 participants. The patients will follow a 12-week administration protocol, with a 2-week dose taper phase, and be followed for a total of 38 weeks. “We’re optimistic that the trial results will make DSO available to an even larger patient population,” Dr. Colby says. NYU Langone has a research contract with Kowa Inc. for Dr. Colby’s role as the U.S. chair for the K-321 development program. Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD, is the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. She specializes in managing the most complex corneal disease in children and adults, and has pioneered novel therapies for Fuchs corneal dystrophy, the most common cause for corneal transplant in the United States. Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight While technologies for imaging the cornea have significantly improved through advances in specular microscopy, there are still no commercially available tools capable of imaging the entire corneal endothelium, including its peripheral regions. Gaining a more complete view of the cornea can provide insight into how the outermost edges respond to treatments and infections, potentially translating to improvements in care for those with vision loss secondary to corneal damage or disease. At NYU Langone Health, a breakthrough imaging device debuted in 2023: Konan Medical’s CellChek® C . The state-of-the-art, wide-field scanning specular microscope is capable of providing near-complete visualization of the cornea, says , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor of Ophthalmology in and chair of the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Her team is currently leading studies under IRB approval to test its utility. CellChek C is not yet available for commercial sale in the United States. “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide.” “Only a handful of these microscopes exist worldwide,” Dr. Colby says. “We are the first institution in North America to acquire the microscope.” Visualizing the Entire Corneal Endothelium Most commercially available specular microscopes are capable of imaging the central and paracentral corneal endothelium, yet they fall short in their ability to image cells in the peripheral endothelium. According to Dr. Colby, the CellChek C microscope offers the ability to view any portion of the cornea, even the typically hard-to-see periphery, from endothelium to epithelium. The microscope’s slit-scanning technology enables high-resolution and high-contrast imaging of the corneal layers, she adds. “The images from the CellChek C are breathtaking. Instead of only seeing several hundred central endothelial cells, we can now see tens of thousands of cells throughout the entire