Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 1 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To ensure the safety of building occupants, staff, contractor personnel and members of the public during construction, demolition, and abatement at NYU Langone facilities. To comply with: federal, state and local regulations applicable National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, including NFPA 101: Life Safety Code (2012) and NFPA 241: Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations (2009), in NYS Article 28 facilities and similarly regulated facilities in other jurisdictions. all safety, health and equipment requirements set forth in the contract and NYU Langone design guidelines all referenced NYU Langone safety policies all safety and security requirements of the building owner/manager where NYU Langone leases space POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to:  All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities.  All employees, contractors, vendors and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Definitions 2.1 ACSP: Authorized Construction Safety Professional. A construction safety professional from, or authorized by, Environmental Health and Safety’s (EH&S) Construction Safety group. 2.2 Competent person: A person who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings, or working conditions which are Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 2 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous to workers, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. 2.3 Complex task: Any potentially hazardous task that requires specific competencies, such as structural engineering expertise, complex crane hoist/lift expertise, or industrial hygiene expertise, for safe and successful completion. Examples include, but are not limited to:  confined space entry  crane and rigging operations  structural demolition  excavation  hazardous substance abatement 2.4 Construction: Includes abatement, alteration, demolition, erection and renovation work, but excludes operations and maintenance (O&M) work. 2.5 Controlling contractor (Contractor): A prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for construction of the project (e.g. planning, quality, and completion). 2.6 Facilities trade staff: Includes forepersons, mechanics, helpers, maintenance workers, etc. 2.7 Manager: The Facilities/Engineering manager or Real Estate manager. 2.8 Occupant impact task: Any task that presents a probability of negative impact to building occupants, infrastructure or NYULH operations, without appropriate coordination and controls. This includes, but is not limited to, tasks that could:  create noise or vibration above ambient levels  impact occupant life safety, e.g. by modifying egress or impairing fire protection systems  impact occupant utilities, e.g. through shutdowns  release air contaminants, e.g. dust, mold, gases, or vapors, outside of the work area 2.9 PM: The NYULH construction project manager. 2.10 Potentially hazardous task: Any task that presents a substantial probability of death, serious physical harm, or significant impairment to health without appropriate safety or health protective measures. Examples include, but are not limited to, tasks that could result in:  being caught in an excavation cave in Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 3 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  being exposed to energized equipment  being overexposed to health hazards  being struck by an object  falling to a lower level  working on routine tasks that have become non routine due to unexpected occurrences such as equipment breakdowns, weather conditions, or changes in the project specific safety plan. 3.0 Responsibilities 3.1 EH&S is responsible for:  Developing the Construction Safety program (the program) and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Training relevant groups, including Facilities, Real Estate and RED+F Design and Construction, on the requirements of the program.  Issuing Construction Safety permits and Interim Life Safety plans.  Functioning as a consultant on an as needed basis for construction safety issues.  Conducting quality assurance (QA) inspections of construction sites to verify that appropriate measures have been implemented.  Maintaining a list of third party ACSPs. 3.2 Vice Presidents (VPs) and Senior Directors of Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, as applicable, are responsible for:  Implementing the Program within their divisions.  Ensuring all requirements of the policy are followed.  Ensuring personnel who are covered by this program are trained on its requirements. 3.3 PMs and Managers are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 4 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  Incorporating the requirements of the policy into the contract or work specifications.  Obtaining necessary environmental surveys (e.g. asbestos, lead, soil) prior to the start of work and performing any necessary abatement.  Reviewing the safety requirements for the work with employees and contractors and ensuring they comply with this policy.  Requesting all necessary NYULH permits and shutdowns in advance of the work.  Planning and coordinating work with Facilities Management, the building manager, management of impacted occupied areas and other necessary departments (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC), EH&S, Security) 3.4 PMs are also responsible for:  Conducting daily inspections of the work area unless otherwise approved by RED+F leadership. 3.5 Facilities Forepersons and Contractors are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Ensuring employees and contractor personnel have the required training and certifications.  Planning the work, regularly inspecting the work area and directly supervising potentially hazardous work, to ensure it is performed in a safe manner.  Verifying necessary shutdowns are in place prior to the start of work.  Stopping work to address an unsafe condition.  Immediately notifying the PM or manager of any unsafe conditions or incidents. 3.6 Contractors are also responsible for:  Providing employees and subcontractor personnel with a site specific orientation prior to their starting work. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 5 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021  Complying with building management requirements at leased sites. 3.7 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Only undertaking work that they are trained and qualified to perform.  Performing work in a safe and prudent manner.  Stopping work that poses an imminent danger to themselves or others and notifying their foreperson.  Immediately notifying their foreperson of an unsafe condition or incident. 4.0 General Requirements and Orientation 4.1 The PM or manager shall verify that the contractor superintendent responsible for on site supervision of the work has completed the NYULH required American Society of Healthcare Engineers (ASHE) Health Care Construction and OSHA 30 hour construction courses. 4.2 On applicable construction projects in New York City (NYC), the contractor shall ensure that all construction personnel working on the site submit completion documentation for the safety training required under section 3321 of the New York City Building Code. 4.3 Contractor shall provide all personnel with an orientation prior to the start of work. This orientation shall cover all items in the NYULH Safety Orientation for Contractor Personnel (see Appendix A), site specific conditions (e.g. status of fire protection systems, etc.), rules established by the contractor, any building management safety and security requirements, and the emergency evacuation procedures for the work site (e.g., an explanation of RACE and PASS, the location of fire alarm pull stations, and evacuation routes). 4.4 The contractor shall maintain a daily log containing the name and contact number for each worker on site. 5.0 Pre project and Pre task Safety and Health Planning 5.1 Managers, contractors and forepersons shall incorporate pre project and pre task health and safety planning into its planning process, consistent with American National Standards Institute/American Society of Safety Professionals Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 6 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 (ANSI/ASSP) Standard A10.1 2011, Pre Project and Pre task Safety and Health Planning.  Note: NYULH may grant exceptions to the literal requirements for pre project and pre task planning, e.g., in cases of practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships. These exceptions may permit use of other methods, but only when it is clearly indicated and documented that the chosen alternative methods provide adequate safety and health protection. 5.2 As part of the pre project planning process, contractor shall submit to the PM a project specific plan which addresses the impact of safety and health on applicable critical topics, including, but not limited to:  Isolation of construction areas from occupied areas, including fire protection and infection control measures  Site access/egress, material delivery and waste out routes  Site security and illumination  Protection of NYULH facilities and adjacent buildings and property from construction operations  Public protection (e.g., temporary walkways, ramps, sidewalk bridges, lighting, signage, and traffic control)  Fall prevention and protection (of persons and material)  Site shanties and offices  Worker sanitary, washroom, and changing facilities  Onsite first aid, emergency eye wash and shower facilities  Decontamination facilities  Storage of combustibles, chemicals, flammable liquids, and compressed gas cylinders  Protection of existing site utilities  Materials handling  Control of environmental hazards  Location of crane(s), hoist(s), powered mobile and stationary equipment  Inclement weather protection plan  Emergency evacuation plan The PM will solicit input from an ACSP as needed. 5.3 Contractor shall develop a project specific health and safety plan, which includes provisions for addressing complex tasks, occupant impact tasks, and potentially hazardous tasks. Contractor shall submit the plan to the PM, who will solicit input from an ACSP as needed. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 7 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 5.4 Managers, forepersons and contractors shall conduct pre task safety and health planning for complex tasks, occupant impact tasks, and potentially hazardous tasks. They shall solicit input from an ACSP as needed. 5.4.1 A written task hazard analysis shall be completed in advance of work on any complex or potentially hazardous task. All task hazard analyses shall occur as close to the time the task will begin as is feasible. 5.4.2 The competent person responsible for supervising and performing each complex, potentially hazardous, and occupant impact task shall be identified. 5.4.3 Responsibility for implementation of safety and health control measures established for each complex, potentially hazardous, and occupant impact task shall be assigned. 5.4.4 Each affected supervisor and all affected workers shall be informed about the task hazard analysis and required to participate in the process. Participation shall include discussion on accomplishing the task step by step with appropriate work activities, communication, and personal protective equipment. 5.4.5 All workers shall be informed of how to contact the supervisor or competent person overseeing the complex, potentially hazardous, or occupant impact task. 5.4.6 Each individual responsible for performing any part of a complex, potentially hazardous, or occupant impact task shall be properly trained to perform the task safely. 5.4.7 All affected workers shall receive the safety and/or health equipment identified in the task hazard analysis and the appropriate training necessary to perform the task safely. 6.0 NYULH Permits 6.1 Before performing any work, the PM or manager shall obtain all required NYULH permits, such as those listed below. The PM or manager shall review these permits with the contractor or Facilities foreperson and ensure they are laminated or placed in plastic sheet protectors and neatly posted at the entrance to the work area. The contractor or Facilities foreperson shall monitor personnel Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 8 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 performing the work to ensure that it is conducted in accordance with permit requirements. Environmental Health and Safety  Construction Safety Permit  Interim Life Safety and Evacuation Plan (if applicable) Facilities Operations and Real Estate  Confined Space Entry Permit  Hot Work Permit  Above Ceiling and Barrier Integrity (Penetrations) Permit  Pre Demolition Validation Permit  Roof Access/Work Permit Infection Prevention and Control  Infection Control Risk Assessment (ICRA) Permit 7.0 Pre commencement Conference 7.1 A pre commencement conference shall be held, attended by the contractor’s supervisory personnel, the PM, representatives of all affected operating department(s), and an ACSP. If the project impacts an NYULH patient care or other occupied areas, a representative from IPC shall also be present. 7.2 The pre commencement conference shall acquaint the contractor’s representatives with NYULH safety procedures, and any special safety equipment that shall be required due to the hazards of the project. 8.0 Security 8.1 The PM and contractor shall ensure all personnel receive an I.D. badge issued by the NYULH Security Department or the building manager and wear it at all times. 8.2 The contractor or Facilities foreperson shall post an NYULH “Under Construction” sign on each work area door or partition. 8.3 Prior to the start of construction, the contractor shall install a keypad lock on each construction site entrance door (note: an ACSP shall assess securing of site doors in occupant egress pathways) to prevent unauthorized access. Unless the entrance door is to be replaced as part of the project, the access control hardware chosen shall not damage the door or impact its fire rating. The contractor shall program Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 9 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 an entry code approved by the facility or building manager. Weak codes (e.g. 0000, 12345) shall not be used. 8.4 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that work area, roof, mechanical room, and electric room doors are kept closed and locked. 8.5 Contractor shall enclose outdoor work areas with a solid, 8 foot fence constructed of flame retardant or non combustible materials (unless an ACSP approves alternate protection) to keep unauthorized personnel out. Doors or gates in the fence shall not swing outward and shall be kept locked when not actively manned by a security officer or contractor supervisory personnel. 8.6 The PM or manager shall provide the NYULH Security Department or building manager advanced notice of all work: 1) to be performed after hours, 2) that needs to be performed in controlled or restricted areas, and 3) that may adversely affect NYULH occupants or operations. 8.7 Where required (NYC Building Code section 3303.3, NYS Building Code section 3314.1), the contractor shall provide a watchperson/fire watch during non working hours. 9.0 Fire/Incident Notification and First Aid 9.1 Contractor personnel and Facilities trade staff shall immediately report any smoke or fire incident, regardless of severity, as follows: 9.1.1 On sites with an active fire alarm system:  Activate the nearest pull station  Call 33911 (212 263 3911) at NYU Langone Hospitals and locations with Cisco phone systems or 911 at all other locations, and provide the address and exact location of the incident  Contact their foreperson 9.1.2 On sites which lack a fire alarm system, personnel shall call 911, provide the address and exact location of the incident, and then contact their foreperson. 9.2 Contractor shall be responsible for providing first aid treatment for its personnel. In case of severe injury, personnel shall use the closest Emergency Department or call 911. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 10 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 9.3 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall immediately report any incident which impacts building occupants or the public, NYULH operations/infrastructure or involves treatment of an injury beyond first aid, to their foreperson. 10.0 Public Protection 10.1 Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall ensure personnel restrict use of cell phones and 2 way radios in accordance with the following NYULH Safety Policy:  212: Use of Cellular, Mobile Phones, Personal Computers and Laptops 10.2 Facilities trade staff and contractor personnel shall not perform work in an occupied patient room except in an emergency and with prior permission from nursing leadership. 10.3 Facilities trade staff and contractor personnel shall not perform work in an occupied area without an approved barrier in place (see sections 11.4, 11.5, 13.3). 10.4 The PM or manager shall plan and coordinate work to be performed in an occupied area with the affected clinical, research, school or administrative manager. 10.5 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall minimize, to the fullest extent possible, interactions with building occupants and members of the public. Where feasible: 1) an elevator shall be dedicated to the demolition/construction work and programmed to stop only on floors where the work is occurring, and 2) passenger elevators shall be programmed not to stop on construction/demolition/abatement floors. Elevator dispatching and programming shall be coordinated by the PM or manager with Facilities or the building manager. 10.6 Where feasible, contractor and Facilities trade staff shall use a service entrance for material deliveries and debris removal. If no separate entrance is available, contractor shall schedule debris removal and material deliveries for times when there is minimal interaction with building occupants, factoring in the noise these activities create. Contractor and Facilities foreperson shall assign an escort for all material deliveries and debris removal to protect building occupants. The PM and contractor shall review any exterior hoisting or removal of material and debris with an ACSP (see section 18). 10.7 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall protect the building against water intrusion, freezing temperatures, dust, odors, and other hazards. Contractor and Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 11 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 Facilities trade staff shall also protect windows against physical damage. The materials used to accomplish this shall be flame retardant or non combustible. 10.8 Contractor shall protect building occupants and members of the public from construction, demolition, and abatement operations through the use of appropriate construction partitions, fences, barricades, sidewalk bridges, controlled access (safety) zones, and other protective measures. Posting of proper warning and directional signage is required. 10.9 Contractor shall ensure that temporary pedestrian walkways are at least 5 feet in width, kept free of tripping and other hazards and illuminated as needed. Where pedestrians are directed into a roadway, concrete jersey barriers shall be used to separate this walkway from vehicular traffic. The barriers shall have reflectors at 15 foot intervals. All sidewalk, walkway and lane changes/closures shall be set up in accordance with a plan approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). Ramps and curb cuts shall be constructed in accordance with a NYS registered design professional’s drawing to ensure compliance with applicable codes (e.g., ADA). 10.10 Contractor shall install sidewalk bridges and/or other protective measures for the benefit of the public, workers and adjacent property where required by code (e.g. NYC/NYS Building Code chapter 33) or otherwise deemed necessary by NYULH. All protection shall be installed in accordance with a NYS registered design professional’s stamped drawing reviewed in advance by EH&S. Bridges shall not obstruct any building exits or fire department connections. An adequate number of four foot vandal resistant fluorescent or LED fixtures shall be installed by a licensed electrical contractor. The top of the sidewalk bridge shall be accessed from the building. Where this is not feasible, the means of accessing the bridge shall be secured or removed at the end of each work day. 10.11 Installation and removal of sidewalk bridges, temporary pedestrian walkways and other public protection shall be performed at times where there is limited interaction with the public or the area is closed. 10.12 Contractor shall protect elevated leading edges and work platforms against falling objects by installing toe boards and vertical netting. 10.13 Contractor shall provide an adequate number of flag persons to direct pedestrian and vehicular traffic wherever construction operations, trucks, and equipment traverse public areas. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 12 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 10.14 Contractor shall not pick loads over people or occupied vehicles. Where loads must be picked into or over an occupied building, at a minimum, the two floors below shall be vacated unless specifically authorized by the AHJs (e.g. building department, NYS Department of Health). 10.15 Contractor shall ensure that workers performing tasks while elevated above grade or floor level tether their tools to prevent them from falling. 10.16 Contractor shall secure construction materials and debris against displacement by winds. 10.17 In New York City, the PM shall ensure that an occupant or tenant (residential) protection plan is created and reviewed by an ACSP prior to the start of work. Such plans shall comply with NYC Administrative and Building Code requirements. Outside of New York City, the ACSP shall incorporate occupant/tenant protection measures into the Construction Safety Permit and any Interim Life Safety and Evacuation Plan. 11.0 Fire Safety and Egress 11.1 PM or manager and contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  104: Tobacco Free Facilities  115: Fire Alarm and Water based Fire Protection Systems: Inspection, Testing, Maintenance, and Impairments  122: Fire Prevention  126: Fire Safety Requirements for Interior Finish Materials  143: Hot Work Program  145: Interim Life Safety Program  NYU Langone Facilities Operations, Preventative Maintenance and Inspection Program Policy T.01 Penetrations in Smoke/Fire Walls/Slabs and Repair of Structural Steel Fireproofing 11.2 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall not obstruct corridor egress, access to stairs, or exit signage in an occupied area unless planned with the PM or manager, and an ACSP (see NYULH Interim Life Safety Program policy). Tools, material, equipment and debris shall not be staged or stored in occupied areas (e.g., corridors, stairs, elevator lobbies). Stairwell and fire/smoke doors shall be kept closed. 11.3 Where proposed construction work will obstruct the exits or designated egress paths for a place of assembly occupancy, the PM shall ensure that an occupant Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 13 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 protection plan showing the alternate means of egress is submitted to, and approved by, the AHJ with a copy of the plan provided to the Facilities office or Real Estate department representative. 11.4 The PM shall ensure that walls separating construction from occupied areas have a one hour fire resistance rating, unless there is an active, automatic fire sprinkler system throughout the site which complies with the NFPA 13 standard (see NFPA 241 section 8.6.2). The door and frame in a one hour fire rated wall shall have a 45 minute rating. Fire rated walls shall have self stick signage or be stenciled to indicate their rating and be painted on the occupied side. 11.5 All construction site walls shall be smoke tight and extend up to the deck or to a fire rated barrier which isolates the construction from the occupied area. Where fire rated site walls are not required, the PM shall review and obtain approval from Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP, for the materials to be used to construct the walls. The use of flame retardant plastic as a construction site barrier is prohibited in Article 28 facilities and similarly regulated facilities in other jurisdictions. Exception: short duration work in occupied areas (see section 13.3) 11.6 Contractor shall ensure that all construction partition doors, regardless of rating, self close, latch, and do not have a gap exceeding 3/4” at the bottom or 1/8” between the door(s) and its frame. 11.7 During construction, the PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that existing fire protection devices and systems, as well as building compartmentation, are maintained in accordance with chapter 33 of the NYC and NYS Building codes, the NYC and NYS Fire codes (chapters 14 and 33 respectively) and NFPA 241. NYCsites shall comply with the requirements in Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2020 012 and the Fire Code Guide. Sites in Article 28 facilities shall also comply with Joint Commission requirements and applicable NFPA standards. The PM shall ensure that proposed modifications to egress, fire protection systems and compartmentation are reviewed with Facilities, Real Estate, or the building manager, an ACSP and outside of NYC, with the Fire Marshal. Approved modifications shall be detailed in any applicable occupant/tenant protection plan filed with the AHJ(s). The contractor shall post a notice at the site entrance advising of the status of the site’s fire protection systems (for example, “this site contains active upright sprinkler heads”) and provide visual markers for sprinkler heads and smoke/heat detectors. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 14 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.8 Where the ceiling in a construction space is to be removed, the PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that existing sprinkler heads are replaced with upright heads positioned in accordance with NFPA 13 (2010), sections 8.5 through 8.9. Heat collectors shall not be used as a means to assist in the activation of a sprinkler (NFPA 13, section 8.5.4.1.4). 11.9 The PM or Manager, and Contractor shall coordinate work on fire suppression systems with Facilities or the building manager. All work shall be performed by, or under the supervision of, a licensed master plumber or licensed fire suppression contractor. 11.10 The PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that sprinklers within a construction area are kept active during hot work. The contractor shall protect sprinkler head(s) near hot work. This protection shall be removed once hot work is complete. 11.11 Contractor and Facilities trade staff shall ensure that nothing (e.g. visual markers for sprinkler and detection devices, cables, lines, conduit, ductwork, insulation, etc.) makes contact with, lies on, or is attached to, sprinkler or standpipe lines, hangers or supports. 11.12 In construction spaces with existing smoke detectors, prior to the start of any work, the PM shall: 11.12.1 Have the design professional or a life safety consultant determine whether the smoke detectors are required by code. If they are not, the PM shall review with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP to determine whether they should be removed or converted to 135 degree Fahrenheit rate of rise heat detectors by the building’s authorized fire alarm vendor. The contractor and its subcontractors are not authorized to disable, modify or remove a fire alarm device or system. 11.12.2 Review with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and an ACSP changing required smoke heads in the space to 135 degree Fahrenheit rate of rise heat detectors to prevent unnecessary fire alarm activations (see NYC and NYS Building Code, section 907.4.3; and NFPA 72 (2010), sections 10.14.3.1, and 17.7.1.9). The AHJs shall be notified of any modifications which shall also be noted in any applicable occupant/tenant protection plan. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 15 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.12.3 Arrange for the building’s authorized fire alarm vendor to install any approved heat detectors. The vendor shall install heat detectors in accordance with NFPA 72 sections 17.6.3 and 29.8.4. 11.12.4 Once construction is complete, the PM shall arrange for the authorized fire alarm vendor to remove heat detectors and make the necessary changes to the fire alarm system in accordance with the AHJ approved drawings. 11.13 Where work may activate smoke or heat detectors, the PM or manager shall arrange for a shutdown of these detectors in advance with Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager. 11.14 The PM or manager shall arrange a fire watch for the full duration of impairment to a fire protection system (e.g. fire alarm, standpipe, or sprinkler) or required fire or smoke barrier. See NYULH Interim Life Safety Policy 145, Section 4. 11.15 Contractor shall maintain a minimum 3 foot wide path of egress within the site, marked with lighted or photo luminescent exit signs with directional arrows. All site doors shall be available for exit during working hours. The site shall be illuminated at all times. 11.16 Contractor shall ensure that combustible debris is removed from the site daily. 11.17 Contractor shall ensure that materials introduced into the site (e.g. plywood, plastic sheeting, rigid insulation, tarps, and debris netting) are flame retardant or non combustible. 11.18 Contractor shall not use gasoline, propane or liquid oxygen unless specifically reviewed by an ACSP. 11.19 Any work performed above a ceiling or which penetrates a smoke or fire barrier requires an Above Ceiling and Barrier Integrity permit. Such permits shall be requested through the ATG system by the PM or manager. Penetrations in floor, wall and ceiling fire/smoke barriers, existing or created during the course of the work, shall be temporarily fire stopped by the contractor when not actively being worked on and at the end of each work day utilizing fire resistant materials until that barrier is permanently restored. Acceptable temporary fire resistant materials include mineral wool, concrete and masonry, fire rated doors/frames/access panels, U.L. listed drywall assemblies and Hilti fire stopping products. Materials such as flame retardant plywood, plastic sheeting and corrugated plastic board Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 16 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 (corex), as well as Masonite, fiberglass and spray foam insulation, are not fire resistant materials and therefore not acceptable for use. 11.20 The PM or manager, and contractor shall ensure that the fire stopping specified in the current NYULH Design Guidelines document is installed by certified personnel and inspected by a qualified third party. 11.21 The contractor shall provide a mounted, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher with tag showing annual and monthly inspection record for every 1,500 square feet of space. The distance between any two extinguishers shall not exceed 75 feet. A 10lb. ABC dry chemical extinguisher shall also be immediately available by hot work and flammable liquid storage. 11.22 The contractor shall provide fluorescent or LED site lighting and enforce NYULH’s prohibition against the use of “hot” lighting (e.g. incandescent, halogen, quartz, etc.). 11.23 The contractor shall not store flammable liquids below grade. Indoor storage of flammable liquids in quantities of five (5) gallons or more require a permit from the AHJ and use of a UL 1275 listed flammable safety cabinet. 11.24 Where required (NYC Building Code section 3303.3, NYS Building Code section 3314.1), the contractor shall provide a watchperson/fire watch during non working hours. 11.25 The PM shall review proposed indoor and outdoor contractor material storage locations (including flammable/combustible liquids) with Facilities or the building manager, and an ACSP. The contractor shall obtain necessary permits from the AHJ. 11.26 The contractor shall have materials delivered to the site periodically as the work progresses, not stockpile them, to maintain egress and keep flammable/ combustible load at the lowest level feasible. 11.27 The PM and contractor shall review any proposed use of temporary heat or portable heaters with an ACSP. Electric heaters shall be UL listed. 11.28 The contractor and Facilities trade staff shall protect fire alarm speaker/strobes, pull stations and their associated wiring against physical damage. Any damage caused to these devices or components shall be immediately reported to Facilities or the building manager. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 17 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 11.29 The PM shall notify the contractor that smoking is prohibited in NYULH buildings (including roofs, terraces and courtyards) and within 25 feet of building entrances. 11.30 The use of torch down or other hot roofing methods is prohibited unless specifically reviewed and approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and EH&S. 11.31 The contractor shall employ alternatives to hot work on, and over, roofs with exposed combustible materials or complete all hot work prior to staging or installing combustibles on the roof. Where this is not feasible, the PM shall review the roof work in advance with appropriate RED+F leadership, the building manager (if any), and EH&S to specify the protective measures to be employed (e.g. relocate combustibles 35 feet way, protect non exposed or immovable combustibles in place). 12.0 Utility Safety 12.1 Prior to the start of work at an owned site, the PM or manager shall request a Pre Demolition Validation permit through the ATG system to ensure that all utilities impacted by the work (e.g. medical and natural gas, electric, fire protection systems, steam, plumbing, HVAC) are terminated or properly locked/tagged out by Facilities. At leased sites, the PM or manager shall coordinate this with the building manager. 12.2 Contractor shall comply with the following NYULH Safety Policies:  133: Medical Gas Outlets/Piping  157: Electrical Safety 12.3 The PM or manager and contractor shall not perform work on any live utilities, systems, or equipment unless approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager, and planned with an ACSP. Work on live electrical systems shall be performed in accordance with all requirements set forth in NFPA 70e. 12.4 Contractor shall contact New York 811 and comply with their requirements prior to starting any excavation work. 12.5 Contractor shall employ ground penetrating radar (GPR) or equivalent technology to locate and mark underground utilities prior to the start of excavation. Where the excavation reaches the approximate location of a utility, personnel shall hand dig to avoid striking or otherwise damaging it. The utility shall be protected, supported and/or relocated for the benefit of the workers and to prevent damage. Safety Policy Manual Policy No. 120 Policy: Construction Safety Requirements Page 18 of 26 Revised: January 4, 2021 12.6 Where work requires penetrating a floor, the contractor or manager shall use GPR to detect in slab utilities. The contractor shall also use an appropriate device to detect utilities within wall cavities prior to the start of demolition (e.g., wall scanner for drywall, GPR for masonry). 12.7 Contractor shall not use existing building receptacles unless approved by Facilities, Real Estate or the building manager. 12.8 Where a temporary