Hip Fracture Patients Compared to general or spinal anesthesia, MAC-STILA anesthesia is better at maintaining a normal interoperative heart rate, yields lower pain scores, and requires a lower dose of narcotics. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. MAC-STILA is a safe and effective alternative to general or spinal anesthesia, and may reduce episodes of delirium. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. Hip fracture fixation is associated with a high risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Most surgeons perform the fixation under general or spinal anesthesia; although regional anesthesia with monitored anesthesia care (MAC) has become increasingly popular in recent years, no studies had assessed it in combination with soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia (STILA). , and colleagues examined the feasibility of using MAC-STILA for patients undergoing hip fracture fixation with short cephalomedullary nails (CMN). For their retrospective study, Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma , they matched 20 consecutive OTA 13.A1-3 IT hip fracture patients treated with a short CMN and MAC-STILA protocol 1:1:1 with other hip fracture patients who had received either general or spinal anesthesia. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care.” The researchers found that MAC-STILA was best at maintaining a normal intraoperative heart rate, yielding lower post-surgical pain scores, and minimizing narcotics. The researchers also found no meaningful differences in a range of safety metrics. Given their findings, they concluded that the MAC-STILA protocol is a safe and effective alternative to spinal or general anesthesia for fixing intertrochanteric hip fractures with short CMNs. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care. It has the potential to expedite the time to which patients are taken to the OR for surgery, to decrease overall narcotic consumption (which in the elderly can have severe side-effects), and to minimize the risk of intraoperative and postoperative complications,” says Dr. Konda. Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Sanjit R. Konda, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of Geriatric Orthopedic Trauma for NYU Langone Health. He is also the chairman of Orthopedics for Medisys Health Network and director of Orthopedic Trauma at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. He specializes in treating fractures, nonunions, post-traumatic deformity, and osteomyelitis. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Well-planned growth and consolidation of health systems can drive greater efficiency and care coordination, but recent studies suggest that health system mergers haven’t always lived up to this ideal. Nearly 25 years ago, NYU Langone Health embarked on a unique path to system growth when , inaugural chair of the combined Department of Orthopedic Surgery after the merger that created , was tasked with integrating two residency programs and two faculties providing care at five institutions. The same strategy later helped NYU Langone Health expand into Brooklyn and Long Island. Joseph A. Bosco III, MD , vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, continues to work closely with Thomas R. Lyon, MD , vice chair of orthopedic surgery at James D. Capozzi, MD , chair of orthopedic surgery at . Together, they ensure that ongoing growth of the system’s footprint also expands high-quality patient care. Below, they discuss opportunities and challenges they have navigated as a leadership team. Dr. Bosco, you’ve said that you approached the department’s growth believing there is a critical difference between “acquisition” and “integration.” How do each of you see that difference? Dr. Bosco: Hospital systems are growing by acquiring and merging with other systems, but in order for patients to reap the benefits, the entities must integrate. That’s why we see, nationally, that as hospital systems grow in size, their quality doesn’t necessarily improve. We’re taking a different tack here. We’ve grown deliberately and strategically, and we spend a lot of time ensuring a total integration of our service lines where we’ve chosen to merge. Dr. Capozzi: We recognize that the facilities, personnel, patient populations, and even geography in Manhattan may be very different than in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Trying to impart one way of doing things on all three hospitals would never work. To achieve a successful system integration, we’ve been in constant communication and have all learned from each other’s practices and hospitals, taking our differences into account. Dr. Lyon: It was clear from the beginning that this was going to be much more than just an affiliation, but a full-on integration of quality standards, data, and systems. We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that. “We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that.” Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, Thomas R. Lyon, MD, Joseph A. Bosco, MD, and James D. Capozzi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Integrated Records and Metrics In Fall 2021, the Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade once again awarded “A” grades to NYU Langone Health’s hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. How are you utilizing metrics to improve quality across the system? We have a detailed system of metrics for nationally accepted quality indicators on a shared dashboard, and can show that we are improving on all of these metrics across the system. When you see your efforts come to fruition through better numbers and metrics, it just energizes everyone to work even harder. The EMR system was probably the most important element; if you can’t talk to each other or look at metrics or share patient charts and data, you’re really at a disadvantage. That installation of one system-wide EMR system was done immediately and I think that was key. Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus. Can you give a specific example of how the shared data has driven quality improvement? In 2020, we looked at our hospital-acquired conditions and found that there was a small uptick in the previous six months across all sites. Among the 10 hospital-acquired conditions that we track, we found that blood clots, or VTEs [venous thromboembolisms], were causing the increase. Why was that? Because of COVID-19. We then formulated a strategy and operationalized new prophylactic DVT [deep vein thrombosis] protocols. As a result, we were able to address the increased DVT risk in near real time and provide our patients with safer, higher quality care. As another example, in 2013 we were one of the first institutions to volunteer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Bundled Care for Improvement Initiative. In this total joint risk-sharing program, hospitals are financially responsible for all care up to 90 days post discharge, including readmissions. The CMS-provided list of all 90-day readmissions allowed us to formulate improvement strategies that decreased our readmission rates by 70 percent. On the Long Island campus, we have seen significant improvement on our total joint length of stay, our readmission rate, and our complication and mortality rates. Throughout the Brooklyn campus, in-hospital mortality rates have dropped by 33 percent since the merger , with other significant improvements in central line infections, catheter-associated urinary tract infections, and patient recommendations. “Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus.” A Shared Vision of Collaboration When you think about a successful medical system integration, what other elements are you considering? In Brooklyn, we needed a big influx of nursing to improve our nurse to patient ratios. After the integration, a huge amount of payroll capital helped us increase our nursing ratios to not only meet quality standards, but also exceed them. So we’ve seen major investments in nursing staff, facilities, and information technology. We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration. For instance, Dr. Capozzi runs an outstanding fragility fracture service with unbelievable outcomes and detailed evidence-based care pathways, and we adopted those throughout our system. Dr. Lyon and his colleagues run an incredibly efficient operating room and we learned a lot from integrating some of their practices across NYU Langone Health as well. So it’s certainly been a two-way street, and that’s key for true integration. “We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration.” Joseph A. Bosco III, MD, is a professor and vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, and director of quality and patient safety at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. He specializes in treating and researching knee and shoulder injuries. Thomas R. Lyon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, as well as vice chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the orthopedic surgery service at NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn. He specializes in treating fractures. James D. Capozzi, MD, is a professor and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island. He specializes in treating hip and knee arthritis and in performing hip and knee replacement surgery. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Telemedicine Fosters Patient Engagement In a survey evaluating outpatient experiences with or without telemedicine, S-CAHPS response rates were as follows: 0.68 ± 0.26 for the no-contact group, 0.84 ± 0.17 for the phone group, and 0.86 ± 0.14 for the video group. ADAPTED FROM: The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery , 2021 Feb 3;103(3):243-250. Day-of-Surgery Video Calls Maximize Satisfaction Regarding the impact on patients’ experiences and future preferences, 85.9 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls gave a top satisfaction rating for their overall care, compared with 71.8 percent contacted by phone, and 60.7 percent not contacted; and 62 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls preferred a video call in future encounters with their surgeon, compared with 1.8 percent not contacted and 1.7 percent contacted by phone. ADAPTED FROM: Incorporating telemedicine in lieu of face-to-face office visits or consults is generally associated with high patient satisfaction in orthopedic surgery. In a new study, orthopedic surgeon and colleagues at NYU Langone Health assessed whether day-of-surgery video or phone calls might likewise improve patient satisfaction. Effective communication with patients following outpatient surgery can play a major role in facilitating a successful treatment outcome and ensuring their overall satisfaction,” says Dr. Strauss. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call, is a simple and very useful approach.” For the Journal of Bone & Joint Surgery , three surgeons were randomly assigned to one of three communication methods: no contact with patients after their same-day discharge, contact via a phone call, or contact via a video call. Among 251 enrolled patients, survey response rates were greater in both the video call and phone call groups than in the no-contact group. In a separate satisfaction questionnaire, the video group also scored the highest, followed by the phone group. Patients who received a video call reported a strong preference for that form of communication in the future, supporting its ability to enhance patient satisfaction. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call where the patient can see their surgeon and point out any areas of concern, is a simple and very useful approach,” notes Dr. Strauss. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study of tranexamic acid (TXA) use in at-risk patients having total joint arthroplasty (TJA) finds no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among 26,808 patients receiving topical or intravenous TXA. ADAPTED FROM: J Bone Joint Surg Am . 2021 May 19;103(10):900-904 Orthopedic surgeons have increasingly used tranexamic acid (TXA) as a highly effective intervention for minimizing blood loss during total joint arthroplasty (TJA). Many surgeons, however, have questioned whether TXA might increase the risk for myocardial infarction and venous thromboembolism (VTE) among TJA patients with a history of coronary artery disease (CAD) or coronary stents. , a professor or orthopedic surgery, and colleagues conducted a retrospective analysis of total hip or knee arthroplasty patients, all of whom received either topical or intravenous TXA. Their found no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among the at-risk patients, and no significant differences in the rate of VTEs, regardless of the patients’ history of CAD or coronary stents. Furthermore, they saw no significant differences in VTE rates regardless of whether TXA was administered intravenously or topically. Given that both TXA applications minimize blood loss and are equally safe for all TJA patient populations, the researchers recommend intravenous TXA because of its potential for easier implementation. “This essential work supports our continued use of tranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients.” “This essential work supports our continued use of t ranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients,” Dr. Schwarzkopf says. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedics physicians presented 65 papers, 74 posters, 18 videos, and 20 symposia, courses, and special sessions. Notable research from this year’s conference includes: Wednesday, March 23 2:10PM – 2:15PM Paper Presentation Removal of Total Hip and Total Knee Arthroplasty from the Inpatient Only List: Impact on Health Disparities Claudette M. Lajam, MD, FAAOS; Jacob F. Oeding, MS; Joseph A. Bosco, MD, FAAOS; Lauren E. Grobaty, BA Friday, March 25 8:05AM – 8:10AM Buccally Absorbed Cannabidiol Shows Promise in Treating Pain and Improving Satisfaction Immediately Following Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: A Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blinded, Randomized Trial Andrew S. Rokito, MD,FAAOS, Briana Britton, MS; Danielle H. Markus, BA, Eoghan Hurley, PhD,MCH(ORTH)(UK),MBCHB; Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, MD, FAAOS; Kevin Kaplan, MD, FAAOS; Kinjal Vasavada, BA; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD,FAAOS, Michael J. Alaia, MD,FAAOS Multidisciplinary Conference for Complex Surgery Leads to Improved Quality and Safety Aaron J. Buckland, MBBS,FRACS; Brooke K. O’Connell; Charla R. Fischer, MD,FAAOS; Constance Maglaras, PhD; Eaman Balouch, MD, PhD; Hershil Patel, BS; Kimberly Ashayeri, MD; Michelle A. Zabat, BA; Nicole A. Mottole, BS; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD,FAAOS, Tina Raman, MD, Zoe Norris P0469 Use of a Novel Augmented Reality Software to Assist in Cephalad Lag Screw Placement into the Femoral Head for Cephalomedullary Nails Abhishek Ganta, MD; Kenneth A. Egol, MD,FAAOS; Meghan C. Derken, BA; Sanjit R. Konda, MD, FAAOS; Sara J. Solasz, BA To see the complete list of presentations and events, Programs for Those with Memory Loss & Their Caregivers , we offer a wide range of activities to enhance the quality of life and wellbeing of family caregivers and friends of people with Special Programs for People with Memory Loss Caregivers can enjoy free time while their relatives engage in these stimulating programs. Buddy Program The Buddy Program pairs an adult in the early stage of with an NYU student for an intergenerational friendship and learning experience. For more information about the Buddy Program, call or email Thea Micoli at Thea.Micoli@NYULangone.org A Place for Us A Place for Us is a recreation group that provides opportunities for people living with memory loss to meet and engage creatively with others through art, music, and dance therapy. During these one- to three-hour sessions, available both in person and online, led by a seasoned recreational therapist and artist, participants are guided through various stimulating activities and projects. Activities include social engagement; exercise; creative projects such as painting, sculpture, collage, and photography; music; and movement. For more information or to register your family member in A Place for Us or our other special programs for people in the early stages of dementia, please email recreation therapist Amy Harris at Amy.Harris2@NYULangone.org Programs for Caregivers We encourage caregivers to participate in specially designed programs to help reduce the stress of caring for a loved one with memory loss. For additional information about our programs or to register, please call Care Consultation Meet with one of our licensed clinical social workers individually or with other family members, by video conferencing, by phone, or in person. Our social workers can help you address changes that have occurred in your daily life and relationships since your relative began having problems with thinking and memory. We also provide information and referrals to appropriate resources in the community. Care consultation is available in English and Spanish. Caregiver Workshops, Lectures, and Seminars Caregiver workshops and lectures on how to provide good care, obtain support for yourself, identify and access resources, implement legal and financial planning, and respond to the challenges of dementia. We also offer seminars on how to use art and music to create positive experiences for the person with dementia. For family members of people who have problems with thinking and memory, our support groups are conducted by video conferencing (Zoom) and by phone. Kaffeklatches These informal gatherings, on Zoom, give family caregivers the opportunity to get together and chat in a supportive environment. Workshops with Museum Educators We hold special workshop series for caregivers with museum educators. This is an opportunity to discuss and create art in a supportive environment with other caregivers. Programs for Caregivers and their Relatives with Memory Loss to Enjoy Together We offer a variety of activities for people with memory loss and their family members or caregivers to participate in together. For more information or to register, please call Museum and Garden Tours and Dance and Musical Performances We offer museum and garden tours and dance and musical performances specially designed for caregivers and their family members with dementia. Memory Cafés Memory cafés on Zoom for caregivers and their family members living with dementia provide opportunities to socialize with games and conversation. Referrals to Affiliated Programs We offer referrals to affiliated programs such as the Unforgettables, a chorus for family caregivers and people with memory loss. The Unforgettables offers the opportunity to rehearse and perform familiar songs and learn new ones with other family caregivers and people with memory loss. Weekly rehearsals culminate with a community concert. No prior musical knowledge or ability is required. We work closely with community partners in the Bronx and Queens. Together with PSS and Sunnyside Senior Services, our three organizations support family caregivers across the five boroughs of New York City. We refer caregivers to additional services, agencies, and professionals in the community to address additional specific needs. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Perlmutter Cancer Center joins national collaborative to address unmet needs through innovative early-phase trials. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Two studies reveal how melanoma metastasizes in the brain and how epigenetic regulation may aid its spread. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Systematic review ties plant-based regimen to reduced prostate cancer risk, improved outcomes, and overall health. Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Chicago, June 3-7. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Case exemplifies the complex decisions faced by patients with high-risk NMIBC who elect bladder preservation. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies , is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses the HapImmune platform , which, in broadest terms, is a means to increase the antigenicity of any cancer-specific protein that can be targeted with a covalent inhibitor and presented on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. Dr. Neel co-developed the technology with , and it is now being commercialized by Aethon Therapeutics in partnership with NYU Langone. Building on Decades of Research Dr. Neel, you’ve been involved in the advancement of translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics, and targeted therapies for several decades. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Neel: Forty years ago, we did not know any single gene mutation causes cancer, nor did we understand the molecular basis for cancer progression and drug resistance. Now we’ve identified between 500 and 1,000 gene mutations that, in different combinations, can lead to cancer. As a result, we’ve developed a multitude of treatments, such as targeted therapies, which include small-molecule signal transduction inhibitors and antibodies against receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as small molecules that specifically target mutant oncogenes or components of their downstream signal transduction cascades. We also now have immune therapies, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, which reactivate the patient’s own immune system against their tumors. Creating Targetable Neoantigens by Design How does the HapImmune platform represent a next step in precision cancer treatment? As I mentioned, some intracellular oncoproteins can be inhibited with targeted therapy, but responses are not durable. On the other hand, immune therapies can be curative, but most oncogene-driven tumors are unresponsive to these treatments. This new platform, HapImmune, creates targetable neoantigens by design, unifying targeted and immune therapy treatment approaches. “[T]his new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations.” We know mutant oncoproteins are “neoantigens,” that is they are, by definition, different from their normal counterpart. In principle, the mutant proteins should appear as foreign to the immune system. Fragments of some mutant oncoproteins can be presented by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), which should trigger such an immune response. However, recognizing minimal differences between oncoproteins and their normal counterparts is difficult. Equipped with this knowledge, we developed a platform technology that exploits hapten–peptide conjugates generated by covalent inhibitors to create distinct neoantigens that selectively mark cancer cells. Can you explain how the platform works? The antibodies produced via the HapImmune platform are designed to activate T cells that will specifically eliminate tumor cells. First, we use a technology called phage display to identify antibody fragments that can bind the drug–peptide complex when it is bound to specific MHC molecules. Dr. Koide and his group are experts in this technology. After multiple rounds of phage display, we identified very high-affinity “front-end” antibodies. The chosen antibodies can then be reformatted into customized, bispecific T cell engagers, with one recognition arm directed toward the drug–peptide bound to MHC and the other toward T cell surface proteins, ultimately recruiting more T cells to attack the tumor cells. The same “front end” could also be linked to “back ends” that bring in NK cells or radioactive molecules—or even be developed into CAR T or CAR NK cells. Next Steps of Development In January 2023, you announced the launch of Aethon Therapeutics, a commercial venture designed to further develop the HapImmune platform. What lies ahead? We are still in the early days of development, but this new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations. NYU Langone Health and its arm has exclusively licensed to Aethon pending patent applications and expertise covering the HapImmune platform. NYU Langone is the owner of the technology exclusively licensed to Aethon and has equity and other financial interests in Aethon. Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel also have equity in Aethon, and Aethon is also sponsoring research conducted by Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel at NYU Langone. These interests are being disclosed and managed in accordance with NYU Langone policies. Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD, is a professor of medicine and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition A healthy 34-year-old man presented with penile pain persisting for more than three weeks. The patient had been seen by two outside physicians for the same complaint prior to seeking my opinion. The penile pain started a few hours after the man had had intercourse, which he characterized as “nothing out of the ordinary.” The pain was described as localized to the dorsal penile shaft, with tenderness and discomfort radiating from the midshaft dorsal to left lateral. A prominent vein on the dorsal penile shaft was identified as the area of maximal tenderness. I noted the following observations during a physical exam and subsequently made the diagnosis of Mondor’s disease, involving a thrombophlebitis of the dorsal penile vein. Penis: Normal male phallus with normal urethra. No penile erythema or tenderness. No urethral discharge. A cord-like structure was palpable along the dorsal aspect of the penis that extended to the left lateral shaft. There was no hematoma, erythema, or signs of infection. Scrotum: No evidence of scrotal rashes. Testes: Nontender, with no swelling or masses bilaterally. There were no hernias or varicoceles, and the vas deferens and epididymis were palpable and normal bilaterally. Here, I elaborate on the causes and clinical presentation of Mondor’s disease and detail the diagnostic workup. I also discuss management and the condition’s favorable prognosis. Etiology and Clinical Presentation A superficial vein thrombosis first described by Mondor in the chest wall in 1939, Mondor’s disease was broadened to include descriptions of penile phlebitis and thrombosis by Braun-Falco and Helm in 1958 The incidence and prevalence of Mondor’s disease of the penis is relatively rare. Most existing literature is in the form of case reports describing potential etiological factors, such as trauma during sexual activity, vigorous masturbation, or penile infection. As in this patient, the most common presenting etiology is postcoital pain and discomfort, typically overlying a swollen and tender dorsal vein. The presentation of sudden onset of pain and a palpable cord-like structure along the dorsal aspect of the penis is common, but evaluation can be delayed by weeks in some situations. Associated symptoms commonly include swelling, erythema, and bruising, noted especially when sexual activity is vigorous, causing trauma to underlying tissue. This is known as the so-called Virchow’s Triad of vessel wall damage: thrombophlebitis leading to venous stasis and subsequent clot formation A thorough differential diagnosis for penile pain and discomfort should differentiate Mondor’s thrombophlebitis from other conditions like Peyronie’s disease or penile fractures. All three conditions can occur secondary to penile trauma, sustained most commonly while the penis is erect. Diagnosis Diagnostic workup includes a thorough history and physical examination. When the presentation and physical exam are not straightforward, an imaging study is recommended. In our office, we have dedicated, urologically trained ultrasound technicians who have years of experience. An ultrasound is the quickest and least-expensive tool to diagnose Mondor’s disease. The characteristic findings of Mondor’s disease on ultrasound include a thrombosed vein, absence of arterial flow, and noncompressible vein consistent with thrombosis More-detailed studies, such as an MRI of the genitals, can help to rule out penile fractures or other trauma-related penile injuries when ultrasound is not readily available or is inconclusive. Management and Prognosis Mondor’s disease of the penis is rare and is typically related to trauma during the erect state. Rarely do men with the condition need anything more than reassurance, anti-inflammatories, and behavioral modification. Urologists should consider this diagnosis in patients presenting with penile pain and cord-like structures once Peyronie’s disease and penile fracture have been ruled out. Men with Mondor’s disease are often anxious and uncomfortable, and should be reassured that the condition is self-limiting. Conservative management options range from pain management with anti-inflammatories to warm compresses overlying the injured vein. Second-line treatments may be necessary in situations where the patient remains uncomfortable after conservative management. Consideration of anticoagulation therapy to prevent thrombus extension may be warranted in select cases; this can be done in conjunction with the vascular service. Antibiotic therapy should be administered when cellulitis is suspected . Tapered steroid dosing has been described to reduce swelling and discomfort, but is unlikely to change clot formation and resolution. Mondor’s disease has a very favorable prognosis, and symptoms usually resolve within weeks. However, patients may be very distraught and bothered by the injury and may seek out surgical treatment. There are rare cases in which surgical intervention, such as vein stripping, may be necessary for persistent cases of Mondor’s thrombosis Some potential complications include recurrence, persistent pain, and mild erectile dysfunction due to condition-related anxiety or psychological distress. 1. Bird et al. (1997). Traumatic thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis: An occupational hazard. Am J Emerg Med. 2. Griger et al. (2001). Penile Mondor’s disease in a 22-year-old man. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 3. Khan et al. (1982). New perspectives in diagnosis and management of thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 4. Nazir et al. (2010). Thrombosis of the dorsal vein of the penis (Mondor’s disease): a case report and review of the literature. Indian J Urol. 5. Swierzewski et al. (1993). The management of penile Mondor’s phlebitis: superficial dorsal penile thrombosis. J. Urol. Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH, is a clinical associate professor of urology and the director of the Sexual Dysfunction Program. He specializes in treating erectile and male urinary dysfunction. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health urologists joined international colleagues in Chicago, April 28–May 1. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk Following resection of advanced melanoma, combining a personalized mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab was shown to reduce the risk of recurrence or death by 44 percent compared to pembrolizumab alone, according to results from the KEYNOTE-942 trial presented at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Annual Meeting 2023 The study represents a landmark in the advancement of personalized cancer vaccines, being the first randomized clinical trial with a control arm to show that a personalized mRNA vaccine improved clinical outcomes compared to an existing treatment. “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma.” “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma,” , principal investigator of the study and deputy director of NYU Langone Health’s , said in a statement. “These findings also provide the first randomized evidence that a personalized neoantigen approach is potentially beneficial for cancer patients.” Directing T cells to the Tumor With the capacity to encode a tailored combination of up to 34 neoantigen sequences, the mRNA vaccine is designed to initiate an immune response to cancer based on a patient’s unique tumor mutations. According to vaccine developers, the optimal combination of neoantigen sequences is identified in only two hours using an algorithm that analyzes DNA and RNA sequencing data, and roughly six weeks is required for vaccine manufacturing. Once administered, the neoantigen sequences are translated and undergo antigen processing and presentation, directing T cells to attack the cancer. Improved Outcomes, Well Tolerated The study enrolled 157 patients with cutaneous melanoma metastatic to a lymph node or to distant sites and at high risk of recurrence. All patients had complete resection of their melanoma and were randomly assigned 2:1 to receive either the combination treatment or pembrolizumab alone, with the mRNA vaccine administered for a total of 9 doses. In addition to improved recurrence-free survival, the mRNA vaccine was well tolerated, and the adverse event profiles for both the vaccine and pembrolizumab were consistent with past trials . The majority of adverse events were low grade, and the most common vaccine-related adverse event was fatigue. Furthermore, no potentiation of immune-mediated adverse events was seen with the addition of the mRNA vaccine to pembrolizumab. Based on the promising findings, a phase 3 trial will open in 2023 for patients with melanoma, with plans to launch trials of the vaccine in other cancer types soon. Dr. Weber is a paid consultant for Merck and Moderna. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Many patients with bladder cancer are electing bladder-preserving strategies over radical cystectomy due to reservations over the procedure’s significant morbidity and impact on quality of life. A recent case at NYU Langone Health exemplifies the complexities of such a decision, with a patient with T2 muscle-invasive disease foregoing a previously planned surgery for trimodal therapy (TMT). “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity,” says urologic oncologist . “Given patient interest in TMT as well as other bladder-preserving treatments, there is a great need for clinical trials designed to guide recommendations.” Reservations Regarding Surgery The patient, a male in his early 80s, presented with gross hematuria (>180 red blood cells), urine cytology positive for cancerous cells, and a 4-centimeter bladder mass on the left lateral wall visible by CT urography. He immediately had surgery to remove the tumor, and pathology revealed high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation invasive into the muscularis propria. The patient initially agreed to have a radical cystectomy and completed four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (gemcitabine and cisplatin). With no evidence of residual or metastatic disease, he was cleared for surgery but expressed resistance to urinary diversion and an unwillingness to proceed with the treatment plan. A multidisciplinary tumor board then deemed the patient a candidate for TMT, which the patient agreed to, viewing the chance to preserve bladder function as a welcome relief. Success with Trimodal Therapy Since completing TMT, which involved repeat transurethral resection followed by weekly cisplatin and 55 Gray intensity-modulated radiation, the patient has remained disease-free. The patient tolerated TMT well, developing only mild urinary hesitancy successfully