G. Local Law 97 Compliance & Planning Projects within New York City must complete a life cycle cost review of Local Law 97 compliance and potential penalties based on project design. Any scenario planning around energy infrastructure must take into account amortized life cycle cost of future penalties using a moderate approach to carbon coefficients after 2034. This includes installations and upgrades to mechanical equipment that impact building energy use type and consumption, such as but not limited to: boilers, generators, chillers, and heat pumps. H. Engineering Dos and Don’ts 1. If an item is not included in the guidelines, follow up with facilities. 2. Confirm with RED+F PM team that Commissioning has been bought out to a third party to include specs in engineering subsections. This is a code requirement for Article 28 spaces. In addition, commissioning is a DOB requirement for non Article 28, please reference the NYC Energy Code for specifics. 3. Design engineer to confirm with RED+F PM that a page turn has been setup with facilities at different stages of design (schematic, design development, contract drawings). 4. Design Engineer or Architect to carry meeting minutes during page turn with facilities and submit to facilities after meeting. 5. If designing an Article 28 space, provide drawing notes for all trades to prevent any object from touching, laying or hanging from sprinkler piping. 6. Ensure BMS sequence operations lines up with control sensors indicated on one line drawings. 7. Do not have all similar equipment on the same electrical panel. Distribute the electrical loads. (i.e. like pumps, AHUs, etc.) 8. If designing HVAC for sterilizers, heat load calculation shall be run for skin loss as well as cooling of cleaned items right after a sterilization cycle. Common engineering mistake is to not calculate for the heat load of sterilized items that are cooling in the space and sufficient cooling is never provided. 9. Enforce the completion of “as builts” and turnover to NYU Facilities. 10. Obtain HVAC traverse readings and electrical tracing at the start of design process. 11. Do not discharge steam condensate pump vents into MER. Vents to discharge to the outdoors. 12. Steam condensate piping shall be pitched by gravity to condensate pump, No trapping or lifting of condensate via steam shall be allowed. 13. Provide filtration and chemical treatment on closed loop systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines GENERAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 361 2023 14. AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. 15. All primary chilled water coils and valves in the Manhattan Main Campus shall be designed to 400 psi at an ANSI pressure class of 300lbs. 16. Outdoor ductwork shall be pitched on top to prevent water accumulation. 17. In the main campus, all automatic transfer switches shall be specified with a dead neutral position and delay transfer feature. 18. Sprinkler system shall have a means of draining, do not trap water in sprinkler piping. 19. In the main campus, do not send generated steam condensate from clean steam generators that serve air handler humidifiers back to Energy Building. Generated clean steam condensate shall be removed from campus via drains per DEP standards. Primary steam condensate from the Energy Building shall be pumped back to the plant. 20. Do not substitute Terminal Reheat Units for Induction Units and vice versa without a Facilities Operations engineering review. 21. Provide power for Lighting Circuits from lighting panels. Receptacles and convenience outlets shall be provided power from utility panels and receptacle panels. 22. NYU Langone’s main campus does not provide natural gas to lab benches. Do not design for this service, and include removal of same on the demolition plans. 23. Define that power tie in's to furniture are to be performed by the electrical contractor. Engineer to include on the "E" drawings. PM to confirm with the GC/CM. 24. Do not locate IT room HVAC equipment in ceilings of the rooms. Locate outside the rooms and duct in. Or use a split system and hang the evaporator on the wall and drain outside the room. 25. Use only concealed sprinkler heads, not recessed. 26. Specify tamperproof receptacles in all waiting rooms, regardless of the clinical function of the practice. 27. For laboratory equipment rooms, provide exhaust registers directly above heat generating equipment. 28. Include UL approved pass thru sleeves for future use in all smoke/fire partitions to prevent non firestopped penetrations resulting from future cable pulls. 29. Thought must be given to redundancy for critical MEP systems. If a system loss will result in compromised patient safety or revenue loss to the institution, redundant systems need to be included in the design (i.e. emergency power, UPS, etc.) 30. DO NOT USE USG Sheetrock Acoustical Sealant at medical gas copper pipe penetrations. It corrodes the pipes. Use an alternate. 31. Include Hands on Training for maintenance staff for all MEP equipment. In the main campus, two training sessions shall be provided, one early in the morning and one at night. For off site locations, contact RED+F for amount of sessions. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines GENERAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 362 2023 32. Indicate on drawings where high point vents shall be required on pipework. 33. For phased projects that may have multiple contractors of the same trade, ensure that submitted equipment and components remain consistent throughout the project (i.e. same manufacturer, same model, etc.). 34. If existing services are to remain in a renovated space, those existing services are to be brought up to NYU Langone current standards. 35. Piping taps for pressure sensing devices shall be top tap only. Side or bottom taps are not allowed. 36. Medical gas takeoffs from riser shall be full size throughout floor loop. The piping size shall not be reduced on a floor loop. Takeoffs from floor loops shall be sized adequately. 37. Vacuum risers shall be full size. Do not reduce size at end of riser. 38. Pipe sleeves shall be provided for all piping wall penetrations 39. Mechanical piping shall be secured down with brackets or provided with saddles under the insulation 40. Provide means of hoisting equipment from floor to working level if maintainable equipment is above 6 feet above finished floor. Means of hoisting can include trolley I beams, eye hooks, winches, etc. 41. Balancing valves shall not be used as shutoff valves. Provide dedicated shutoff valve for system/equipment isolation. 42. Low voltage cable located in mechanical, electrical or equipment rooms shall be in conduit. Free air is not allowed. 43. Rooftop equipment that has access doors/areas that are above 3 feet above final roof line shall have dunnage installed around the entire unit. 44. Any rooftop equipment that is within 6 feet of the edge of a roof that has no parapet wall shall have guardrails. 45. All rooftop equipment shall have proper lighting, service outlets and hose bibs (with roof drains) for cleaning purposes. END OF GENERAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 363 2023 2. MECHANICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards Comply with all current New York City Building Codes, Joint Commission Standards, National Institutes of Health and all authorities having jurisdiction and applicable national, state and local codes, laws and regulations governing or relating to any portion of this work. Laboratory and Hospital environmental conditions, air filtration, air change rates and pressurization relationships will be in accordance with the requirements set forth in American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), American Institute of Architects (AIA), National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and all other applicable governmental Codes. If any design standard within this document contradicts codes or regulations, the design engineer shall notify NYU Langone Health. B. Design Criteria I. Chilled Water a. General Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperatures: 45°F/57°F i. Manhattan Main campus primary chilled water shall be designed with a 48°F entering chilled water temperature b. Operating Room Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperatures: Contact Facilities Operations for proper values. c. If Chilled Water will be decoupled from main campus, Chilled Water system with a heat exchanger, higher design temperatures shall be used and approved by Facilities Operations d. 2 way control valves shall be used II. Condenser Water (campus) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 85°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 95°F c. 2 way control valves shall be used III. Condenser Water (process) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 80°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 90°F IV. Steam a. Working pressure of steam is 1) LPS 5 psi 2) MPS 25 80 psi 3) HPS operating: 150 180 psi, maximum: 200 psi 4) HHPS 600 psi NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 364 2023 b. Clean steam generation shall be used for humidification and for direct injection sterilization. V. Perimeter Heating a. Non potable hot water shall be designed to an Outside Air Temperature reset control scheme. VI. Outside Design Conditions a. The mechanical systems shall be selected to serve a facility as specified within the New York City Building Code. VII. Internal Design Conditions a. Offices, Conference Rooms, Classrooms, Student Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68 74°F D.B. b) Cooling: 68 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Conference rooms, libraries, study halls and similar spaces shall have CO2 monitoring and demand ventilation control. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): 15 of design. Control shall be on a room by room basis with a local over ride at the respective temperature sensor. b. Laboratories, Lab Support Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68°F D.B. with a minimum of R.H ± b) Cooling: 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Air Change Rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instance shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): pressurization shall be maintained with reduced airflow. Methodology shall be reviewed with facilities operation prior to design. d) Air Change rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instances shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 365 2023 c. Health Care Facility Areas 1) Operating Rooms: 68 78°F D.B. depending on function of Operating Room. Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user. Minimum of R.H. and maximum of R.H. a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. 2) All other Health Care Facility Areas shall be designed to the data listed within the latest edition of the FGI Guidelines and ASHRAE 170 Ventilation for Health Care Facilities. 3) Procedure Rooms/Isolation Rooms/Protected Environment Rooms a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user c) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. d. Vivarium and Support Areas The data within this subsection shall be superseded by the most current version of NIH Guidelines. All temperature conditions shall be reviewed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. The final design shall be confirmed by all parties. 1) Unoccupied Setback: a) Areas with animal habitats shall not be allowed a temperature or airflow setback. b) Any rooms that are designed with an unoccupied schedule shall be confirmed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. e. Electrical Closets 1) Ventilated to 80°F D.B. average, 85°F D.B. maximum. f. Switchgear Rooms 1) Air Conditioned to 78°F D.B. The design shall be an N+1 configuration. g. Communication Closets 1) Heating: 65°F D.B. minimum (if room is on perimeter of building) Cooling: 78°F D.B. average, 83°F D.B. maximum. h. Storage/mechanical areas: 1) Ventilated i. Elevator machine rooms: 1) Air conditioned to 78°F dry bulb minimum. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 366 2023 j. Sterilizers: Calculation for heat gain from a sterilizer shall be the skin loss of the sterilizer plus cooling load required during cooling of cleaned/sterilized items. Engineers shall note on a design drawing what the skin loss of the sterilizer is as well as what the cooling load for sterilized/cleaned items is. k. Toilets: Ventilate to New York City Mechanical Code requirement. VIII. Internal Load Criteria Refer to ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. IX. Lighting and Equipment Heat Gains a. Base design on data listed within ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. X. Hours of Operation a. Offices: 12hrs/day, 5 days/week b. Laboratories/Support Areas: case by case basis to be discussed with end user. c. Health Care Facility/Support Areas: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week d. Vivarium: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 367 2023 C. Mechanical Naming Convention I. Equipment Naming Scheme Example: AHU TH 1 2 AHU TH 1 2 Unit Type Building Name (Location of Unit) Floor # Unit # AC Air Conditioning Unit (cooling only) ALH Alumni Hall ACB Active Chilled Beams BRK Brooklyn Lutheran ACC Air Cooled Condenser BRG Berg ACCH Air Cooled Chiller EB Energy Building AF Air Filter GBH Greenberg Hall AHU Air Handling Unit HCC Health Care Center B Boiler KP Kimmel Pavilion CAV Constant Air Volume Unit MSB Medical Science Building CH Chiller SB Science Building CP Condensate Pump SKB Skirball CSG Clean Steam Generator SRC Smilow Research Center CT Cooling Tower TH Tisch Hospital CWP Condenser Water Pump ET Expansion Tank For all offsite locations, confirm EX Exhaust Fan Building name with RED+F FCU Fan Coil Unit Space Planning division. FOP Fuel Oil Pump GX General Exhaust Fan HWP Hot Water Pump KEF Kitchen Exhaust Fan PCHP Primary CHW Pump PFHX Plate and Frame Heat Exchanger PRV Pressure Reducing Station RAF Return Fan SAF Supply Fan SCHP Secondary CHW Pump STHX Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger SX Smoke Exhaust Fan TX Toilet Exhaust Fan UH Unit Heater VAVS Variable Air Volume Supply Box VAVR Variable Air Volume Return Box VAVX Variable Air Volume Exhaust Box VFD Variable Frequency Drive WSHP Water Source Heat Pump NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 368 2023 *NOTE: for renovation projects the engineer shall inquire what the existing labelling scheme is on the floor and continue with the last number using the labeling scheme above. Example: if the floor has VAV’s on the 2nd floor of MSB labelled as VAV 1 through VAV 11, engineer shall start new labeling as VAVS MSB 2 12 II. FSD/FD labeling scheme: Example: HCC 1 FD 2 D. Various I. Testing and Balancing a. Aeroseal shall not be used to seal new ductwork. Aeroseal may be used only in existing inaccessible exhaust risers with proven air leakage. The use of Aeroseal on any other type of ductwork shall not be used unless discussed and approved by NYULH Facilities. b. All projects shall have a TAB baseline taken of space prior to design/demo to confirm existing conditions. c. All Testing and Balancing values shall be within / + of design values on a per outlet basis. d. Duct Leakage Testing Standards: Duct ClassPressureSeal ClassLeakage ClassMedium Pressure Horizontal3” 6” A4Medium Pressure Risers3” 6” A4Low Pressure2” and belowA6*Note: Low Pressure testing only applicable to sections greater than 100 square feet of duct surface area. e. All hydronic piping shall be hydrostatically tested to 1.5 working pressure but not less than 100psi for a minimum of 2 hours. Temperature readings of the piping being tested shall be taken prior to the test and at the conclusion of the test. All tests to be witnessed by owner. f. All refrigerant piping shall be tested per the following: Pressure Testing for leaks • Charge system with regulated dry nitrogen and the appropriate tracer gas to pressure defined by engineer of record (EOR) or Manufacturer. • Branches may be tested in segments to reduce the time needed to locate leaks. However, for the final test, entire system must be tested as one. • When all leaks have been repaired and sections have been retested, the system must stand, unaltered, for 24 hours with no more than a +/ 1 pound pressure change. HCC 1 FD 2 See building labeling scheme Floor #FD Fire DamperFSD #in previous tableFSD Fire Smoke DamperSD Smoke DamperNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 369 2023 • If system does not drop below specified pressure within 24 hours, the system is then ready to be evacuated. Evacuation Procedure • Pull a system vacuum down to at least 1000 microns (+/ 50 microns) and close the vacuum header valves. If the system cannot pull a vacuum at any step and returns to atmospheric pressure, which is an indication of a leak, test for and repair the leak using the previously described procedure with tracer gas. • If the 1000 micron vacuum holds for 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), break the vacuum with dry nitrogen to a pressure of 2 psig • Install system suction and liquid drier cores. • Pull a second vacuum to a minimum of 500 microns. • Close vacuum header valves. • If the 500 micron vacuum holds for a minimum of 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), then break the vacuum with the refrigerant to be used in the system to a pressure of 2 psig. • Pull a third vacuum to a minimum of 300 microns (+/ 50 microns). • Close vacuum header valves and allow system to stand for a minimum of 24 hours g. All pressure sensitive rooms shall have pressure relationship between room and outside space shown on report. h. Pressure sensitive rooms shall be tested prior to ceiling being installed to confirm design pressure relationships between pressurized room and adjacent spaces. i. Article 28 space balancing reports shall show pressure in and pressure out per FGI Guidelines. j. Balancing reports for any rooms designed to be positive or negative pressure must include the room’s pressure on the report. Report cannot be approved unless .01”wc/.01”wc is obtained while also meeting design flow CFM +/ . k. Testing and Balancing contractors shall be NEBB, TABB or AABC certified. Non certified TAB contractors are not allowed. II. All equipment shall be cleaned prior to starting/turnover. III. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup IV. Heat Recovery systems shall be enthalpy wheels, hydronic glycol based systems or air to air heat exchangers. These shall be designed on a case by case basis and will need to be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. V. Pressure dependent rooms shall always have a schedule shown on drawings indicating location, room name, room use and pressures required to meet code criteria. Testing and Balancing reports for these rooms shall always indicate design pressure and actual pressure of room. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 370 2023 VI. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. 1) Air Handling Units 2) Chillers 3) Boilers VII. Field Testing a. The following equipment shall be field witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. 1) Field Assembled Air Handling Units VIII. Flexible ductwork is not allowed in healthcare projects. IX. Slip and Drive connections for ductwork are only permitted when space in ceiling is limited. X. Provide futures when tapping off piping risers. XI. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. E. Pandemic Upgrades I. All upgrades shall be discussed with Facilities Management. The HVAC systems shall have the following upgrades: a. Minimum MERV 13 filters i. For clinical areas: Ability to add HEPA filtration when needed b. Ability to operate spaces at a humidity level of when needed c. Ability to operate with OA when needed with OA intake of unit minimum 50 feet from the exhaust of any system and street level i. Base design to be return air (or enthalpy recovery) F. Equipment 1. Access Doors Access doors shall be provided in any spaces where maintenance of any system (air or water) will need to be provided. A minimum size of 24x24 shall be provided, if smaller size is requested, obtain permission from Facilities Operations. Access shall be provided to all piping trim, dampers, actuators, shut off valves, BMS Sensors, equipment both sides of reheat preheat and cooling coils and any other equipment required maintenance access. The doors shall not be blocked by piping, electrical conduit, ceiling support iron or hangers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 371 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Finished Construction: 1) Karp 2) Mil Cor 3) Ruskin b. Sheetmetal (doors): 1) Duct Mate 2) Flexmaster 3) Ruskin c. Sheetmetal (hardware): 1) Arlan 2) Duro Dyne 3) Ventlok 2. Air Compressors Medical air compressors see plumbing design guidelines. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sullair b. Quincy c. Ingersoll Rand 3. Air Curtains Air curtains shall be provided with a door switch to operate only when doors are open. Approved Manufacturers: a. Berner International Corp. b. King c. Mars Air Door d. Powered Aire Inc. 4. Air Filters Approved Manufacturers: a. Viledon b. Flanders c. Fiber Bond 5. Air Handling/Conditioning Units If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Units shall be furnished with unit controls to comply with the requirements of the most current New York City Energy Conservation Code (NYCECC). Fan array technology shall be used on all Air Handling Units. Provide one VFD per fan array and one VFD as backup, total of two VFDs per fan array. Do not provide bypass NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 372 2023 on VFDs. The VFDs shall be programmed to operate all fans simultaneously and at the same ramp speeds. Each fan motor in the fan array shall have its own local disconnect. The VFDs shall swap at a determined time interval to equal out run time. All fans in a fan array system shall be provided with low pressure drop backdraft dampers that will prevent recirculating air when a fan is down due to maintenance or failure. Do not provide blank off plates in lieu of backdraft dampers. Non Ducted filter boxes shall have a minimum of 1 foot clearance. Ducted intake filter boxes shall have removable panels. This applies to V Cube type Mamoth condenser water type units. If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. Motor section shall have doors or removable panels that are larger than the motor for maintenance access. All floor plating inside each compartment shall be sheetmetal. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. If a unit is a double stack unit with access doors/panels on an upper level of the unit, the unit shall be provided with a permanent walkway/catwalk for maintenance access. Ladders without a walkway/catwalk are not allowed. Units are to be provided with access windows for each unit section. Lighting shall also be provided in each section. If unit is outdoors, lighting suitable for outdoor use (flood light type) shall be provided to illuminate all walkways/catwalks and access points. Pre assembled units shall be factory witness tested. Tests shall consist of: Unit Leakage, Coil Leakage, Deflection, Fan Vibration, and Acoustical. Field assembled units shall have the same test criteria as factory witness test but shall be field tested by manufacturer. Duct seal putty shall be used in all AHU conduit connections to VFDs, control enclosures, and other sensitive electronics. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. On units that require UV lighting, AHU UV light sections shall be provided with UV protected glass so that personnel can look into unit section without damaging eyes. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Stainless steel welded pans shall be installed under all AHU’s and floor mounted CRAC/CRAH units that are inside of a building above the lowest floor. Pans are not required if flooring is waterproofed and floor is pitched to floor drains. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 373 2023 Air blenders shall be used in all mixed air units. Air blenders shall be designed with low pressure drop. Discuss need of air blenders with facilities if design engineer is choosing to design a dual purpose heating/cooling coil as described in Cooling/Heating Coil section. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. For an AHU that serves Operating Rooms; the unit shall be designed to have a pre filter (intake of unit) of MERV 8. The final filter (discharge of unit) shall be MERV 15. HEPA filtration shall be installed in the modular OR ceiling. If a modular ceiling is not being designed inside the operating room, discuss with facilities where HEPA filtration shall be installed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Factory Assembled Custom Air Handling Units 1) Air Enterprise 2) Buffalo Air Handling 3) Temtrol 4) Ventrol 5) Carrier 6) Ingenia 7) Alliance Air Products 8) Haakon b. Packaged Roof Mounted Air Handling Units 1) Enviro Tec 2) Trane 3) York/Johnson Controls 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth c. Packaged Roof Mounted DX Air Handling Units 1) Trane 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Liebert 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth d. Packaged Self Contained Chilled Water Air Handling Units 1) Buffalo Air Handling 2) Trane 3) Ventrol 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 374 2023 e. Packaged Self Contained Computer Room Air Conditioning Units Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) APC 3) Stulz 4) Trane f. Packaged Self Contained Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Enviro Tec 2) Liebert 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin g. Packaged Self Contained DX Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) Mammoth 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin h. Spot Coolers (Data Closets) 1) Movin Cool 6. Air Outlets Any outlets that are to be installed in labs, Operating Rooms or any specialized medical space shall be specific to the usage of the room. Standard outlets are not allowed in these areas. Plenum box connections to linear diffusers need to be clearly shown in details. Details shall clearly describe how connections shall be air sealed. Design engineer shall ensure detail is physically buildable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus e. Ruskin NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 375 2023 7. Air Volume Regulators Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus 8. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) Approved Manufacturers: a. Rittling b. Slantfin c. Sterling Radiator d. Vulcan Radiator 9. Boilers Approved Manufacturers: a. Condensing Modular 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Fulton 4) Cleaver Brooks b. Fire Packaged Watertune 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Burnham c. Firetube Boilers up to 150,000lbs/hr 1) Cleaver Brooks d. Heat Recovery Steam Generators / Waste Heat Boilers 1) Rentech 10. Clean Steam Generators Clean steam generators shall be steam to steam type. Screen control panels with PLC shall be provided. Shell shall be pitched to completely drain the condensate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Diversified Heat Transfer DHT. b. Patterson Kelley, Company. c. Acme Engineering Products, Inc. d. Precision Boilers, Inc. e. Armstrong f. Dri Steam g. Cem line NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 376 2023 11. Chilled Beams (active) Chilled beams shall have pressure independent control. Beams shall be provided with a pressure tap that can be used to measure the pressure differential between the primary air plenum and the room. The units shall be equipped with hinged perforated return grilles, an air bleed and drain valves. The connection of beams to the chilled water circuit shall be a maximum 18 inch long PTFE lined braided stainless steel hose having a rated operating pressure not less than 500 psig. It is standard for all chilled beams to be supported by the wire hanging kit method. Provide a minimum of 3 feet of straight or gradual radius between the primary air duct and the primary connection of the unit. Also avoid sharp bends on the primary air duct connection. Do not install the primary air volume damper directly to the primary air inlet connection. Flexible duct connections to the primary air inlet is not allowed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Dadanco b. Carrier c. Titus d. Semco e. York f. Price 12. Chillers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Chiller redundancy to be reviewed by Facilities Operations. All new chillers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Chillers located outdoors shall have capabilities of operating low ambient temperature conditions. Factory witness tests shall consist of all tests required under AHRI Standard 550. Chillers shall have a four point tests , , and design load. FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. Chiller FWT shall also include safeties and shutdown testing. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 377 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Centrifugal 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane 4) Carrier b. Absorption 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Carrier 3) Trane c. Modular Air Cooled 1) ArcticChill 2) Carrier 3) Multistack 4) York/Johnson Controls 5) Trane d. Modular Water Cooled 1) ArcticChill 2) Multistack 3) York/Johnson Controls e. Packaged Air Cooled 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane f. Magnetic Levitation 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Daikin 3) Trane 13. Condensate Pumps Steam condensate pumps shall have pump status monitored at BMS as well as high level alarm annunciated at BMS. This typically required additional relays to be designed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Cold Condensate 1) Federal 2) Hartell 3) Little Giant NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 378 2023 b. Hot Condensate (Low Pressure Steam Return) 1) Armstrong International 2) Bell & Gossett 3) Federal Pump 4) Weinman 14. Cooling/Heating Coils Coil pressure rating shall be designed to 400 psi at an ANSI pressure class of 300 lbs. for Manhattan campus primary chilled water system. All coils shall be copper tube and copper fin. Fins shall not be thinner than 0.0095” and tubes shall have a minimum 0.035” wall thickness. Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. If there is a shortage of copper, aluminum fins are allowable however this needs to be discussed with NYULH Facilities before proceeding with design. Construction of aluminum fin coils shall have copper tube with a minimum wall thickness of 0.035” and aluminum fin with a minimum 0.0095” thickness. A corrosion prevention coating (Electrofin or similar) shall be applied to any coil that is in a outdoor air unit and all aluminum fin coils. All coils shall be drainable (drain downs downstream of isolation valve ¾” hose bib) and have means of removal for service or replacement. Coils shall be pitched to a low point for draining purposes. If coils have different levels, all levels shall have separate drain pans. Coils shall have capability to be removed without removing any piping trim. All coils shall have clear access for removal. Multi coils shall be staggered for ability to be removed on the same side of unit. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Vents shall be provided at the top of the coil with drains at the bottom, vent and drain shall exist between the coil’s isolation valves. Cooling Coils must have a stainless steel condensate pan pitched in three directions toward drain. Drain pan nipples shall be stainless steel with dielectric fittings connecting to a drain plug. If return air is coming from the top, the coils shall be designed to have a top and bottom section. If return air is coming from the side, the coils shall be designed to have a left and right section. Separate Freezestats shall be provided on EACH section of coil within a unit. If a unit has multiple coils, each coil section shall be provided with its own control valve. Freeze type plug valves are not allowed. Coils to be provided with a full size manual bypass ball or gate valve. Traps for cooling and steam coils shall have proper heights for the removal of condensate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 379 2023 Coils not specifically listed in approved manufacturers below are acceptable only if the Air Handling manufacturer builds and tests the coils in their factory. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Hot water/Chilled water coils shall not be bottom fed. These coils shall be top or side fed. Design engineer to consider utilizing dual purpose CHW/HW coils to combine coils in AHUs. Engineer shall perform an analysis on applicability of such a coil and present to the corresponding campus facility team for review. Approved Manufacturers: a. Water/Steam 1) Aerofin 2) Heat Craft 3) Temtrol 4) RAE 15. Cooling Towers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. All towers shall have accessible fan motors for removal. Catwalks shall be provided for fan motors that are installed on the outside of the unit. Provide means of removal of fan motor. Railings shall always be provided on top of the unit. Ladders shall be provided for access to the top of the unit. Freeze protection (steam or electric) shall be provided on towers that will not be drained down during the winter season freeze protection pump shall be provided on a case by case basis as secondary protection. Major cooling towers shall be induced draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. If towers have multiple cells, each cell shall have means of walking between each cell. Catwalks shall be installed inside all cells for maintenance. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. Minor cooling towers shall be force draft type and have stainless steel basins with PVC piping inside. Catwalks/platform shall be installed around entirety of cooling tower at the level of the bottom of the basin. ¾” hose bib shall be installed for cleaning purposes. All cooling towers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 380 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Marley b. Baltimore Aircoil Company c. Evapco 16. Controllers (Water Level) Controllers shall be floats or digital type. Design shall be discussed with Facilities Operations. Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. McDonnell Miller b. B&W c. Magnatrol International, Inc. 17. Dampers (ALD's) Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Damper adjustment hardware and actuators shall extend past ductwork insulation. Provide Access Doors for damper blades and actuator (if access is an issue). If actuator has to be installed inside ductwork due to size requirements, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Double actuators are not allowed. Actuators shall be sized to provide proper torque via one actuator. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco 18. Dampers (Dynamic Fire/Smoke) All fire smoke dampers to be full throat and shall not obstruct the air stream or reduce the area of the duct in any manner. Shafts of dampers shall be notched to indicate the position of the damper blade. Fire Smoke Dampers shall be provided with limit switches. Dampers and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 381 2023 All access doors for FSDs shall include a label on the door indicating what the access is for. Approved Manufacturers: a. Arlan b. Imperial c. Ruskin d. Tamco e. Pottorff f. Honeywell 19. Expansion Compensation Expansion compensators shall be designed and shown on drawings with proper guiding and anchors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Type Expansion Joints 1) Advanced Thermal Systems 2) Hyspan Barco b. Braided Type Expansion Loops 1) Metraflex c. Corrugated Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Keflex 3) Metraflex d. Slip Type Expansion Joints 1) Hyspan Barco 2) Metraflex 20. Expansion Tanks Expansion tanks shall have waterside and airside gauges on bladder type tanks. Drain points shall be provided on waterside section. All expansion tanks shall have replaceable bladders. Approved Manufacturers: a. Adamson b. Amtrol c. Bell & Gossett d. John Woods e. RECO f. TACO NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 382 2023 21. Fans If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Spring type vibration isolators shall always be provided. Neoprene type isolators can be provided for fans less than 100lbs. If neoprene is used, the design shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Motors which are located on the outside of the fan housing shall have an internal access point to provide access to internal sheave. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Patient isolation rooms shall have a dedicated exhaust system, which shall not be picked up by the air handling unit. Fumehood chemical exhaust shall be stainless steel welded ductwork. All fume hood risers shall be pitched back to the chemical fume hood. Fume hoods shall be tested to ANSI/ASHRAE 110 standards. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Fan inlet boxes shall follow SMACNA HVAC Systems Design Handbook and shall not be field fabricated without verification the SMACNA standards were followed. Belt driven fan shall not be provided with variable pulleys if equipped with a VFD. Only fixed pully shall be allowed on such systems. Approved Manufacturers: a. Howden Buffalo b. Strobic Air c. Greenheck d. Cook e. PennBarry f. Twin City g. Aerovent 22. Fan Powered Boxes Fan Powered Boxes shall have pressure independent control. Units shall be designed with a local disconnect switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus 23. Fan Coil Units Provide with 2 way controls and condensate pump (or gravity drain). Separate stainless steel drain pan shall be installed underneath unit. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 383 2023 Pumps, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. York/Johnson Controls b. Liebert c. Data Aire d. International 24. Firestopping Products Firestopping products shall not be used unless required for fire or smoke barriers. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hilti 25. Flow Measuring Devices Floats, controls, switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new feed shall be similarly metered. Hot wire type air flow measurement devices are not acceptable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Air Systems 1) Air Monitor Corporation 2) Tek Air Systems, Inc. 3) Paragon Controls 4) Ebtron b. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 384 2023 c. Water Systems (Permanently Installed Electromagnetic Flow Meter) 1) Krohne 2) Yokogawa 3) Emerson 4) Siemens d. Steam Systems (Insertion Turbine or Vortex or Clamp On Ultrasonic) 1) Flexim 2) Spirax Sarco ILVA 3) Rosemount 4) Vortek Instruments 26. Fuel Oil Pumping Systems Pumping system shall be installed in a space that will provide access for periodic maintenance including removal of motors, impellers, and accessories. In flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations) provide water tight enclosure that will allow the pumps to operate during a flood. Controls and all power conduits to be within water tight installations until outside of flood zone. Fuel oil containment piping which is horizontal shall be pitched back to leak containment drum. Vertical fuel oil risers shall also drain into leak containment drum. Horizontal containment shall be a pipe in pipe no other means of containment is allowed. Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. IMO c. Deval d. Viking 27. Fuel Oil Specialties Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Preferred Utilities Mfg. Corp. 28. Fuel Oil Tanks Fuel oil tank shall be bolted to the structure to prevent floating in case of a flood. All preventable flood requirements shall be analyzed if fuel oil tank is to be installed in a flood prone area (refer to Facilities Department for flood prone locations). Approved Manufacturers: a. Fiberglass 1) Xerxes Corp. 2) Cardinal Fiberglass Industries 3) Containment Solutions NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 385 2023 b. Steel 1) ISP 2) Highland Tank & Mfg. Co. 3) Adamson Global Technology Corporation 4) Cardinal Tank Corporation 29. Fuel Oil Tank Gauging and Leak Detection Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. ISP b. Veeder Root 30. Freezestats See controls subsection for Low Temperature Switches. 31. Hangers, Anchors and Guides All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. 32. Heat Exchangers For shell and tube heat exchangers, relief valves shall be located on the hot and cold side of heat exchanger and sized to the working pressure of the system. Plate and Frame heat exchangers shall be located on a housekeeping pad. No equipment shall be installed on the plate side of a heat exchanger proper access for removal of plates shall always be maintained. Heat exchangers shall be provided with strapped or clipped removable shrouds. Heat exchangers shall be AHRI certified Approved Manufacturers: a. Plate and Frame 1) Alfha Laval 2) Plate Concepts 3) Bell and Gossett b. Shell and Tube 1) Bell & Gossett 33. Heat Trace Refer to electrical guidelines for details. 34. Humidifiers Humidifiers shall be supplied with Humidistat and also an airflow switch for preventing humidifier operation without airflow. Humidstat shall be designed to be controlled via a cascaded loop. Humidifiers shall be resistive type not electrode type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 386 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Armstrong 2) Dri Steam 3) Nortec b. Water Spray (cannot be used in Article 28 spaces) 1) Armstrong 2) Herrmidifier 3) Cold Fog 35. Insulation (Duct and Pipe) All supply ductwork shall be insulated on the outside. No acoustic insulation is allowed inside the ductwork unless encapsulated with a mylar, tedlar, or approved equivalent type membrane. Insulation shall not cover any damper adjustment hardware. All acoustical lining on the inside of any ducts to be reviewed with Facilities Operations. Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Ductwork located outside shall have proper weatherproofing for use outdoors. Outdoor ductwork must have internal rigid supports to create a pitched top and prevent water accumulation on top of the duct. Steam station and steam piping shall have insulation designed such that no point of insulation is greater than 10 degrees above ambient temperature. The following ductwork shall be insulated: • Supply Air. • Outdoor air. • Return located in unconditioned space. • Type I, commercial, kitchen hood exhaust. • Oven and warewash exhaust. • Exhaust between isolation damper and penetration of building exterior. • Supply and return located outdoors. Generator exhausts located indoors shall be insulated with Calcium Silicate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armacell b. Armstrong c. Knauf d. Johns Manville e. Owens Corning Fiberglas (O C F) f. P.P.G. (Pittsburgh Plate Glass) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 387 2023 36. Insulation Adhesives The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. Benjamin Foster Company b. Elgen c. Venture Tape Corp 37. Insulation Pipe Shields Approved Manufacturers: a. Buckaroos, Inc. b. Pipe Shields Inc. c. Taylor Pipe Supports 38. Meters and Gauges Controls, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. No gauge cocks allowed. Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Temperature Scale Ranges: • Chilled Water Piping: 0 to 100 deg F • Condenser Water Piping: 0 to 150 deg F • Heating, Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F • Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F • Steam Piping: 212 to 500 deg F Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 388 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Sisco 3) Watts Regulator b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler 39. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a fan array system and over hertzing is being implemented, L10 life shall be greater than 200,000 hours. If motor is part of a VFD system, the motor shall be inverter duty rated. Motors enclosures shall be TEFC. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 389 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg 40. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 41. Motor Control Centers See Electrical Design Guidelines 42. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Provide two VFDs one lead and one lag unless part of a fan array system see Air Handling Unit subsection for fan array VFDs. VFDs shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. All conduits in a controlled enclosure or electrical enclosure shall have sealed conduits. VFDs shall not be installed under any piping trim or joints. If VFD is installed under piping due to physical install constraints, NEMA 4 or 6 shall be used. All locations of VFDs that are below piping shall be approved by Facilities Operations. Harmonic Filtering is required on all variable speed drives. Design engineer to discuss with Facilities Management prior to design if active or passive harmonic filtering to be required. Field Testing on all VFDs powering 25hp motors and larger shall be provided and confirmed that Total Harmonic Distortion does not exceed . At the point of common connection, current Total Harmonic Distortion shall not exceed . NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 390 2023 Startup and setup shall be done by the current NYU Langone VFD vendor. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. Duct seal putty shall be used on all conduit connections to air handling VFDs. Do not select VFDs with a Bluetooth option. VFDs that are backed up by emergency power shall be selected and programmed to ride through a voltage dip, manual switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa), and ride through an automatic switch from normal power to emergency power (and vice versa). Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. Yaskawa Electric America c. Danfoss 43. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 44. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. For piping within technology space, no piping shall be provided in the technology space unless it is required for equipment within the room. All piping that is in the technology room must not be routed over technology equipment. All valves and metering associated with piping must have a drip pan located underneath with water detection. Pro press can be considered on a case by case basis. Discuss this request with NYULH Engineering prior to design. a. Mechanical Couplings for Grooved Pipe 1) Grooved piping shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and shall be based on a project by project basis prior to its use in design. b. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 391 2023 45. Pressure Regulating Valves/Stations High, Low, Medium pressure steam pipe gaskets are to be graphite type. Flexseal gaskets will not be accepted. All steam station pneumatic lines must match the size of the controller’s pneumatic connection and be run as copper hard piping, soft tubing not accepted. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam 1) Leslie 2) Fairchild 3) Fische 4) Circor 5) Warren Controls b. Water 1) Leslie 2) Cla Val 3) Watts 46. Pumps All pumps shall be premium efficiency. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Pumps shall be provided with either a strainer or suction diffusers with drain. Pump trim shall not have a balancing valve if pump will be provided with a VFD. Piping and pumps are to be independently supported. Spring type isolators on piping shall be recommended by acoustical consultant. If no consultant is on project, all piping within 50 feet of pump shall have spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Bearings shall have a life grade of L10 with a minimum of 200,000 hours. Approved Manufacturers: a. Horizontal Split, End Suction and In Line 1) Armstrong 2) Aurora 3) Bell & Gossett 4) Gould 5) Peerless 6) Weinman 7) Grundfos NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 392 2023 b. Fuel Oil 1) IMO 2) Viking 3) Simplex 47. Radiant Heating Systems Unit shall be supplied with a wall thermostat and a manually operated on off switch. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ceiling 1) Rittling 2) Runtal b. Floor 1) Aero Tech 2) Airtex 3) Aztec 4) Uponor 48. Refrigerant Monitoring Systems Relay outputs for alarms and control shall be provided to connect to BMS. The unit shall also be provided with visual and audible alarms at the panel. Monitoring system shall have multi point capabilities. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mine Safety Appliances Company (MSA) 49. Sound Traps Sound traps shall only be installed if required per code for a maximum NC level of a room. Approved Manufacturers: a. I.A.C. (Industrial Acoustics Co.) b. Dynasonics c. Vibro Acoustics d. Price 50. Steam Traps See also Orifice steam traps Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Sarco NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 393 2023 51. Steam Piping a. All steam traps shall be steamgard venturi orifice type wherever possible. The design engineer shall review each trap with the manufacturer to confirm if orifice type traps can be used. b. Steam traps shall be provided at all low points, end of mains, riser heals and at equipment connections. Base of drip legs to be provided with separate blowdown valves. c. Ensure all components of the details are installed (unions, shutoff valve, check valve, etc.) d. All piping from coils shall be pitched to the inlet of the condensate pump (no trapped piping). e. Drip legs shall be provided periodically for long runs of pipe at intervals between 100 to 125 feet. f. Drip legs shall be no less than half the size of the pipe it serves. g. Blow off valves to be provided at all drip legs and at the base of all risers. h. Flash tank trap shall be located 6 inches above the water level of the tank. Flash tanks to be provided with F&T trap. i. Test t shall be provided on all condensate piping downstream of steam trap and upstream of condensate shut off / check valve. j. Warmup bypass shall be provided for all steam valves 6 inches and larger. k. High pressure steam shutoff valves at the incoming service to each building shall be provided with two shutoff valves for safety purposes. l. All steam piping shall be insulated. m. Condensate pumps and flash tanks shall be vented to atmosphere. n. Condensate piping exposed to the outdoors shall be heat traced. o. Outdoor steam and condensate piping shall have two layers of insulation. p. High pressure steam shutoff valves shall be high performance OS&Y valves (not butterfly valves). q. Prior to startup A/E team and construction team shall review NYULH Steam Insulation Quality Control Checklist obtain checklist from Facilities Management. 52. Strainers Strainers installed on steam piping shall not be installed in the vertical direction (facing towards ground). Steam strainers shall be installed to be in line with the horizontal piping such that when looking at the pipe and strainer, the clean out shall be facing directly towards you. Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 394 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Fabrotech b. Hoffman c. McAlear Mfg. Co. d. Metraflex e. Mueller f. Sarco g. Titan h. Yarway 53. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality. In all MERs, pipe insulation and conduits shall have colored PVC jacketing per the colors below. Colored PVC jacketing shall be installed on all piping 2” and above. Approved PVC Jacketing Manufacturers: a. Johns Manville b. Proto c. Speedline d. P.I.C. Plastics Chilled Water PrimaryLight Cyan Chilled Water SecondaryLight Cyan CompressorsLight Gray Condenser WaterYellow Domestic Water ColdPea Green Domestic Water HotMedium Gray ElectricalBlue FansDark Green GlycolOff White RefrigerantWhite Reheat WaterMedium Green Sprinkler and StandpipeRed SteamMarigold Steam CondensateRed Orange Floor GuardDark Gray Hot Water HeatingYellow Valves and TrimBlack Waste LineDark Brown NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 395 2023 Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded as follows: Fire Quenching Liquids White on Red TEXT Toxic and Corrosive Fluids Black on Orange TEXT Flammable Fluids Black on Yellow TEXT Combustible Fluids White on Brown TEXT Potable, Cooling, Boiler Feed and other Water White on Green TEXT Compressed Air White on Blue TEXT Steam Black on Yellow TEXT Chilled Water White on Cyan TEXT Hot Water / Reheat Hot Water White on Red TEXT Condensate Black on Orange TEXT Fuel Oil White on Brown TEXT Duct Labels shall be installed every 20 feet and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 4 inches high. Outside Air White on Blue TEXT General Exhaust Black on White TEXT Toilet Exhaust Black on Orange TEXT Return Air Black on Yellow TEXT Supply Air White on Green TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 inch diameter or square, brass, aluminum or stainless steel. Lettering shall be viewable from a distance of 10 feet. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 396 2023 54. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) Refer to the Miscellaneous subsection within the Architectural section of these Design Guidelines for all engineering requirements. 55. Unit Heaters Unit shall be supplied with a unit mounted thermostat. Approved Manufacturers: a. Electric 1) Berko 2) Brasch 3) Chromalox 4) Indeeco 5) Dayton b. Steam/Water 1) Modine 2) Rittling 3) Sterling 56. Valves Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. For Manhattan Main Campus: All campus primary chilled water valves to be 300lb rated. Secondary chilled water valves shall be designed based upon their designed system pressure. Primary CHW service and steam service shall all be stainless steel ball valves. All system pressures shall be specified on design drawings. Ball valves (2 ½” maximum) must be used for manual isolation on all chilled water, secondary water, reheat water and radiation water systems. Butterfly valves are to be used on larger piping (3” and above). All valves and piping systems shall be designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves 3” and larger shall be pressure checked and bench tested at the factory. Factory shall provide a certified report based on testing. Testing shall show that valve can hold rated pressure based on atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. Any valve that is above 7 feet shall be provided with a chain wheel for manipulation of valve from the floor. All high pressure steam isolation valves shall have manual warmup valves for startup. High Pressure steam valves shall be high performance OS&Y gate valves butterfly valves are not allowed. Valves shall be rated to 500 degrees F. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 397 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Balanced Check 1) Fabrotech 2) Hager 3) Mueller b. Balancing Valves (Water) 1) T & A 2) Armstrong 3) Autoflow 4) Flow Design 5) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 6) Bell and Gosset c. Ball Type 1) Apollo 2) Jamesbury 3) Milwaukee 4) Rockwell d. Butterfly 1) DeZurik 2) Flow Seal 3) Bray 4) Jamesbury 5) Keystone 6) W.K.M. e. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each expansion tank, plate and frame heat exchanger or any pressurized water vessel, and as required by Code. Relief valve shall match maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment. Relief piping shall be sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to floor not floor drain. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Consolidated 3) Farris 4) Fulflo Specialties Co. 5) Kunkle 6) Lunkenheimer 7) Watts 8) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 9) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 398 2023 f. Soft Seated 1) Bray 2) DeZurik 3) Keystone 4) Milwaukee g. Swing Check 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Powell 6) Rockwell Nordstrom 7) Stockham 8) Walworth h. Globe Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Nordstrom 6) Powell i. Plug Valves (Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 3) Nordstrom 4) Walworth j. Plug Valves (Non Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Homestead 3) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. k. Solenoid Valves 1) ASCO l. Combination Valves 1) Victaulic m. Gate Valves 1) Crane NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 399 2023 57. Variable Air Volume Variable Air Volume Boxes shall have pressure independent control. All VAVs shall have a local disconnect switch. All VAVs shall be marked with individual equipment ID’s. This shall be specified on design drawings as well. Design drawings equipment schedule for VAVs shall be specific and general based on size. Supply boxes with reheat coils shall have an access door upstream and downstream of the coil for cleaning purposes. Supply boxes without reheat coils shall have an access door for the damper. Exhaust boxes shall have an access door upstream of the cross flow sensors for cleaning purposes. There shall be a maximum of 4 rooms per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the contractor can install flex hoses to circulate and then remove so that there is no possibility of leaving a bypass open. The hose bibs can also be used for high point vents or drains. The hot water return piping shall have an isolation ball valve downstream of the balancing valve. Inlets to VAV at medium pressure ductwork shall not exceed 0.2” ESP or 2,000 FPM. Removable velocity wing sensor shall be provided if Anemostat is selected as the VAV box. Approved Manufacturers Non Critical Applications: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus Approved Manufacturers Critical Applications: a. LCS 58. Variable Frequency Drives See Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) subsection NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 400 2023 59. Variable Refrigerant Flow System (VRF) If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Outdoor Unit (Condenser) All variable refrigerant flow system (VRF) components shall be of the same manufacturer. The unit shall be factory assembled and prewired with all necessary electronic and refrigerant controls. The unit internal controls shall interface with the base building, building management system (BACnet, Modbus, etc.). All refrigerant and gas lines shall be insulated with Armorflex (1/2” or more). The unit shall be provided with a minimum of the following safety devices; high pressure switch, control circuit fuses, crankcase heaters, fusible plug, overload relay, inverter overload protector, thermal compressor protectors, thermal fan motor protectors, overcurrent protection for the inverter and anti short cycling timers. In the event of power failure the system shall store all settings and programs so reprogramming is not required. The system shall automatically restart operation after power failure. The compressor shall be hermetic digital scroll and the inverter shall permit a capacity control range from to . The outdoor fan shall be direct drive variable speed propeller type and configured for vertical discharge airflow. The fan motor shall have inherent protection and have permanently lubricated bearings. The condenser coil shall be copper tubes with mechanically bonded aluminum fins and aluminum end casings. The coils shall be applied with a corrosion resistant coating. Ensure refrigerant piping is brazed (do not use flux when brazing copper to copper refrigerant piping) Branch Controller The branch controller shall have sufficient number of ports as required for connection to zoned equipment. The unit shall contain piping, valves, and controls to divert refrigerant controlling each port to operate in either a heating or cooling mode. Units shall be completely factory assembled, internally piped and wired. Branch controllers shall have factory installed control boards that interface with the VRF equipment controls and shall perform all functions to effectively and efficiently control simultaneous heat and cooling. Isolation valves shall be field supplied and installed for ease of service to the branch controller without evacuating the entire system refrigerant charge. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 401 2023 Indoor Fan Coil Units The indoor fan coil unit shall be factory assembled, wired and run tested. Contained within the unit shall be all factory wiring, piping, electronic modulating linear expansion device, control circuit board and fan motor. The indoor fan coil unit shall have an auto restart function. Indoor fan coil unit and refrigerant pipes shall be charged with dehydrated air before shipment from the factory. The indoor fan coil unit shall be direct drive type with a minimum of three (3) fan speeds. The fan motor shall be ECM type. A condensate drain and pan shall be installed under the coil with leak detection device (in instances where condensate cannot be piped to drain). Provide a factory installed / wired condensate pump with integral check valve. Provide wall mounted programmable thermostat for each indoor fan coil unit (unless multiple units will be grouped and control to one (1) thermostat). Ensure all indoor fan coil unit DIP switches (local at each unit) are set to monitor room/space temperature (ceiling mounted units typically set to read return air temperature). Approved Manufacturers a. Daikin b. Mitsubishi c. Toshiba d. LG 60. Vibration Isolators Vibration isolators are to be installed on all rotating equipment including fans, air handling units, chillers, cooling towers, pumps, etc. Piping shall have braided vibration isolators unless piping is isolated with spring type isolators within a minimum of 50 feet of pump. All piping in a mechanical plant shall be isolated with spring type isolators. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Amber Booth c. Kinnetics Noise Control, Inc. d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings and Controls 61. Water Filtration Sand filtration shall be installed on Condenser Water. All other systems shall have pot feeders. Sand filters shall have backwash capabilities. All water filtration to be capable of filtering a minimum of of total flow. Pot feeders to have 5 micron filtration with a coupon rack. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 402 2023 All water filtration shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ameri Water b. Chemworks c. Diamond Water Systems, Inc. 62. Waterproof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Link Seal b. Zurn 63. Water Source Heat Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. AAON b. Carrier c. Mitsubishi 64. Water Treatment/Cleaning Open loop systems shall have an automatic chemical feed with integral controls. Closed loop systems shall have a manual bypass feeder system. All chemicals are to be recommended by the water treatment system manufacturer. Chemicals shall be compatible with the piping system and components. A water analysis shall be performed to determine quality of water. Any new equipment or piping needs to be pre cleaned to remove the oils of manufacture, which can be accomplished with an alkaline phosphate cleaner supplied by the water treatment supplier. It is necessary that all valves and fan coil units in the system be opened to flow during the cleaning process. The cleaning process shall be as follows: • All coils shall be bypassed for the first two hours of a flush and then opened to flow through the coils for the rest of the flush. • System shall be filled with fresh water and then circulated with all process and booster pumps running. • Alkaline phosphate detergent shall be added following the manufacturer’s instructions concerning the correct dosage. It may be necessary to add de foamer in some instances. • System shall be circulated for a minimum of four hours, and hourly flushed all low point drains to remove any suspended solids that may have been displaced. • Upon completion of the cleaning, system shall be drained and refilled with fresh water. Fresh water shall be circulated for 20 minutes and then bled heavily until the water is clear and free of foam. Flushing shall continue until the ortho phosphate level is within 1 PPM of that of the city water and the conductivity is close to that of the make up water. If the flushing occurs over an extended period in time (more than 24 hours), the flush water should be treated water. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 403 2023 • The system shall be immediately sterilized by maintaining a minimum of 1 PPM as free halogen for one hour and then treated to passivate the clean metallurgies. Systems containing copper should be treated with azole levels of 20 PPM as a minimum. Molybdenum should be used to passivate mild steel piping by achieving a minimum of 50 PPM. The recommended inhibitor levels must be maintained for 24 hours. Systems that are having piping added that cannot be isolated for alkaline phosphate cleaning must have a surfactant added for 48 hours. Systems that are having galvanized towers added must undergo a white rust passivation step for the first 90 days of operation. Flushing and cleaning is allowed through new construction house pumps. Flushing and cleaning is not allowed through existing house pumps. It shall be the responsibility of the flushing and cleaning contractor to provide a pump sized properly for the system to be flushed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 404 2023 G. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Remove low pressure duct leakage testing. 2 Remove requirement for each coil to have a freeze stat in multiple coil units and only provide one long freezestat in all non Article 28 spaces. 3 Allow triple duty valves in off site locations. 4 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 5 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF MECHANICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 405 2023 3. ELECTRICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. I. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the New York State Building Code and New York City Electrical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. All connections to be done with double hole lugs (long barrel) and utilize compression type copper connectors. If this is not possible, the design scheme shall be discussed and approved by Facilities Operations. II. Emergency Power a. Emergency Power shall be provided per NFPA Standards, Joint Commission Standards, CMS Standards and New York City Electrical Code requirements. Emergency power to be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. III. Design criteria for sizing power risers and (connected load) electric panels a. Administration/Office: 5.0 W/sq.ft. b. Clinical Office/Exam: 5.0 W/sq.ft. c. Storage: 1.5 W/sq.ft. d. Laboratories (Basic Research): 50 W/sq.ft. e. Support Areas: 12.5 W/sq.ft. f. Technology Rooms: 50 W/sq.ft. g. Procedure Rooms: 30 W/sq.ft. h. Specialty Rooms: 3 W/sq.ft. i. Offices: 6 W/sq.ft. j. Seminar and Classrooms: 4 W/sq.ft. k. Lobby: 6 W/sq.ft. l. Mechanical Rooms: 2.5 W/sq.ft. (Lighting and Small Power) m. Lounge/Waiting Area: 4 W/sq.ft. n. Café/Cafeteria: 15 W/sq.ft. o. Kitchen: 20 W/sq.ft. IV. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 406 2023 b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. excess attic stock shall be provided for integrated, architectural LED fixtures (i.e. fixtures that need to be replaced entirely after failure). V. Distribution a. All power loads, such as elevators, motor control centers, etc., shall operate at 480/277 volts and shall be connected to distribution switchboards with single or multiple conduit and cable feeders. b. Unless serving specialty equipment/lighting, receptacles as well as fluorescent and incandescent lighting shall be wired to 120 or 277 volt circuits. c. All conduits shall be run concealed in finished areas and exposed in Machine Rooms and Electrical Rooms. d. All lighting circuits shall emanate from lighting panels and power circuits from power panels. Lighting and Power circuits shall not be mixed in the same panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 407 2023 C. Electrical Naming Convention COORDINATE NOMENCLATURE WITH NYU LANGONE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER PRIOR TO LABELING OR RE LABELING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATIONS. I. Generator Panel Naming Scheme Example: PPH G4 HCC CE1 PPH G4 HCC CE1Panel #LocationN,S,E,WA,B,C,DFloor LevelBuilding NameEB Energy BuildingSB Science BuildingKP Kimmel PavilionTH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care CenterSKB Skirball660 660 1st AveGBH Greenberg HallSML SmilowMIL MilhauserGenerator PlantG0 Reserved for Future UseG1 Kimmel PavilionG2 SkirballG3 Science BuildingG4 HCCG5 SmilowG6 Energy BuildingG7 660G8 GBHG9 Outpatient Surgical CenterG10 VZ 30th StreetPanel TypeDPH Distribution Panelboard480V / 277VPPH Power Panel480V / 277VLPH Lighting Panel480V / 277VLP Lighting Panel120V / 208VPP Power Panel120V / 208VRP Receptacle Panel120V / 208V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 408 2023 II. Normal Power Panel Naming Scheme Example: SS PES HCC CE1 SS PES HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery Primary Electric Service Normal Panel Type SSH Service Switchboard 460V / 265V DPH Distribution Panelboard 460V / 265V LPH Lighting Panel 460V / 265V PPH Power Panel 460V / 265V SS Service Switchboard 120V / 208V DP Distribution Panelboard 120V / 208V LP Lighting Panel 120V / 208V PP Power Panel 120V / 208V RP Receptacle Panel 120V / 208V BD Bus Duct DESS Double Ended Substation NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 409 2023 III. UPS Naming Scheme Example: TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B1 TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B 1 Panel # System A or B Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street UPS System Number 1 HCC Cellar 2 Smilow Ground Floor Telephone Switch Room 3 Tisch Ground Floor MUX Room 4 Tisch Ground Floor Communications Room 5 Energy Building 6 Kimmel Pavilion 7 South TER/DR 8 Science Building UPS Panel Types TDP Technology Distribution Board 120/280V TPP Technology Power Panel 120/280V TDPH Technology Distribution Panel 480/277V MDSH Medical Distribution Switchboard 480/277V MDPH Medical Distribution Panel 480/277V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 410 2023 IV. Emergency Panel Naming Scheme Example: LS PP G4 61 HCC CE1 LS PP G4 61 HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street Panel Type DPH Distribution Panel 480/277V PPH Power Panel 480/277V LPH Lighting Panel 480/277V LP Lighting Panel 120/208V PP Power Panel 120/208V RP Receptacle Panel 120/208V Panel System LS Emergency (Article 517 Life Safety) in Patient Care Buildings and Life Safety in Non Patient CR Patient Critical (Article 517) EM Standby (Includes Article 517 Required Mechanical Loads) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 411 2023 V. Bus Duct Naming Scheme Example: BD KP CR 1B2 BD KP CR 1 B 2 Panel # Location A,B,C,D Starting Floor Type N Normal CR Patient Critical EM Equipment LS Life Safety Building Name KP Kimmel Pavilion SB Science Building Bus Duct D. Various I. The following is a list of electrical gear that shall have heat runs/burn ins performed prior to turnover. All burn ins/heat runs shall be at rated load (full load). Infrared scanning shall be provided during the entire burn time. a. Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) 12 hour burn in b. Uninterruptible Power Supply Rack Type 30 minute burn in c. Automatic Transfer Switch (ATS) 4 Hour Burn In d. Static Transfer Switch (STS) 12 hour Burn In e. Generator 12 hours f. Power Conditioner 8 hour burn in II. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel. 1) Generators 2) Medium Voltage Transformers 3) Paralleling Gear 4) Uninterruptable Power Supply 5) Double Ended Substation 6) Power Conditioner 7) Static Transfer Switch 8) Medium Voltage Switches 9) Transformer 1,000 kVa or higher III. Proper wire color schemes shall be used for all panels. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 412 2023 IV. Isolated Ground (IG) receptacles are not allowed. If project team deems IG receptacles are necessary, engineer to discuss with Facilities Management. V. All emergency power shall be in conduit. VI. All boxes (splice, pull, etc.) shall be labelled with source and load. VII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. VIII. All grounding to building steel shall be exothermically welded. E. Equipment 1. Automatic Transfer Switches Depending on application, ATS shall be bypass isolation type with load shedding capabilities. This shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. A full monitoring package on all phases, KW, Voltage and Amperage shall be designed. All ATS connected to cogeneration shall be delayed transition type. Each ATS must include communication package that can communicated with sitewide CPMS. Each ATS must also allow for the acceptance of a permissive signal for retransfer to be received from the cogeneration plant. Engineer to add specifications testing section: • 4 hour full load burn in. One hour each for the following: Normal, Normal Bypass, Emergency, Emergency Bypass. i. At 30 minute intervals, record voltage, frequency, load current. ii. Provide resistive load bank and all necessary temporary cables and connections for full load test. • Simulate Power Failure Approved Manufacturers: a. Asco 2. Busway and Accessories Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric "Spectra Series" b. Siemens 3. Cable Pulling Lubricants Cable pulling lubricant shall not be used on isolated power systems. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 413 2023 • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Polywater Corporation Type "J" b. Electro Compound Company "Poly Ease" or "Y ER Ease" c. Ideal Industries "Wire Lube" 4. Cable Tray and Fittings Approved Manufacturers: a. Atlas b. Burndy c. Cooper B Line Systems d. M.P. Husky Corp. e. P W Industries f. Legrand 5. Clocks In procedure areas clocks shall be wireless, synchronized, digital, and power over Ethernet. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sapling 6. Dry type Transformers Factory testing shall be provided on medium voltage transformers and shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Hammond Power Solutions c. Jefferson Magnetek d. Siemens e. Rex Transformers f. ABB 7. Electric Heating Cable Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. Chromalox b. Raychem NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 414 2023 8. Electrical Conductors, Copper, 600 Volt or Less All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Insulated Wire b. General Cable/Cablec c. Prysmian d. Southwire 9. Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allied Tube & Conduit/Tyco b. Republic c. Robroy Industries d. Triangle e. Western f. Wheatland 10. Electronic Fluorescent Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. MagneTek c. Universal 11. Electronic Fluorescent Dimming Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. Lutron c. Universal 12. Electronic Dimming System Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper 13. Enclosed Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Siemens c. Square D NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 415 2023 14. Exit Signs Exit signs shall meet the NYC Energy Code wattage requirements Approved Manufacturers: a. Philips Caliber Series Edge Lit LED b. Encore 15. Fire Detection, Alarm and Communication See Fire Alarm Guidelines 16. Flexible Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. AFC b. ALFLEX c. American Metal Molding d. Anaconda e. Cerro f. International Metal Hose 17. Flexible Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton b. Efcor c. Midwest d. OZ/Gedney e. Raco/Hubbell f. Steel City/Thomas & Betts 18. Fluorescent Lamps See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further design information. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric 3500°K. T 5 19. Fuses Approved Manufacturers: a. Ferraz Shawmut Amp Trap 2,000 with a fuse window b. Cooper Bussmann NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 416 2023 20. Generator If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Generators shall be provided with a generator monitoring system. Base building monitoring system is a Monico System. Factory testing shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NFPA 37 and NFPA 110 Standards. All new generators ordered for sites in NY, NJ and CT shall be EPA Tier 4. Approved Manufacturers: a. Caterpillar b. Cummins c. Kinsley Kohler 21. Heat Trace All outdoor piping containing fluid shall be heat traced. Heat trace shall be monitored by the building automation system. Heat trace shall turn on by main outdoor air temperature sensor. Alarm shall be sent to BMS when heat trace is to turn on but there is no current flow or heat trace monitoring panel shows there is an error. Heat trace shall not turn on via its own controller. Approved Manufacturers: a. Nelson b. Raychem c. Chromalox 22. High Intensity Discharge Lamps Not allowed. 23. LED Light Fixtures See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further information. LED Fixtures to be approved on a project to project basis. All LED fixtures to be 3500K. Chipset must be Phillips. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Phillips (Tubes) c. RAB Lighting (Panels) 24. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 417 2023 rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. Ultrasonic sensors are not allowed in/near animal holding, animal procedure areas, corridors outside holding/procedure areas, or adjacent spaces. Only infrared type sensors are allowed in these spaces. 25. Lighting Controls To be reviewed with Facilities. Lighting control networks shall reside on the MCIT network with interconnection to the BMS network. Coordinate with MCIT. Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper c. Legrand 26. Line Voltage Switches, Wall Plates, and Coverplates Stainless steel finish plates shall be used in all patient areas. Hospital grade type shall be used in all areas of the facility (non patient and patient areas) Approved Manufacturers: a. Hubbell b. Legrand NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 418 2023 27. Liquid tight Flexible Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Brass Company b. Anaconda (Type “UA”) c. Electri Flex Company 28. Liquid tight Flexible Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Brass Company b. Midwest c. O.Z./Gedney 29. Motor Control Centers Pilot lights shall be LED. Lamp test button shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allen Bradley b. General Electric c. Siemens 30. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) Refer to Mechanical subsection Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) for design requirements. 31. Multi outlet Assemblies Information Technology multi outlet assemblies shall comply to NYU Langone Health IT Design Standards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Legrand 32. Outlets and Boxes Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton Electric Company b. Midland Ross c. Raco d. Steel City/Thomas & Betts e. Thepitt NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 419 2023 33. Overcurrent Protective Devices All field adjustable breakers 100 750 amperes shall be secondary injection tested. All field adjustable breakers over 750 amperes shall be primary injection tested. Approved Manufacturers: a. Eaton b. General Electric c. Square D d. Siemens 34. Panelboard All panels shall have a local main breaker, double hinged door and a locking #47 key cover. Panels to have an arc flash study performed and coordinated. Circuit breakers directories must be populated and accurate. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Switchboard b. All City Switchboard c. Atlas Switchboard d. Electrotech e. Lincoln Electric Co. 35. Receptacles All receptacles shall be hospital grade and illuminated. Receptacle coverplates shall be stainless steel finish plates with high quality stickers showing panel and breaker designation. Hospital grade type shall be used in all areas of the facility (non patient and patient areas). Switched outlets shall have labeling on receptacle coverplate stating “Receptacle shuts off when no one present; plug in cellphones or laptops only.” Receptacles shall be consistent in orientation with ground facing upwards. In addition to any other code requirements, all receptacles that are accessible to the general public shall be tamper proof. Normal Power color shall be gray, duplex and illuminated face. Emergency power shall be red, duplex and illuminated face. Emergency receptacles shall be located in main service electrical rooms, substation rooms, ATS rooms, emergency paralleling switchgear rooms, and fuel oil pump rooms. Duplex emergency receptacles shall be located next to each sump and ejector pit. All receptacles must be GFCI type within 6 feet of sink. Do not install outlets below a fire extinguisher, eye wash or safety shower. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hubbell b. Legrand NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 420 2023 36. Rigid Aluminum Conduit and Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Alcoa b. Anchor Harvey c. Harvey d. Kaiser e. Reynolds 37. Rigid Nonmetallic Electrical Conduit and Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Carlon/Lamson & Sessions b. Certainteed c. Triangle 38. Rigid Steel Conduit and Fittings (exposed to the weather) All shall be UL Listed. PVC coated rigid steal conduits allowed only in outdoor applications or chemical areas. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ocal Inc. b. Occidental Coating Company c. Perma Cote d. Robroy Industries "Plasti Bond Red" e. Triangle 39. Rigid Steel and Intermediate Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allied b. Republic c. Triangle d. Western e. Wheatland NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 421 2023 40. Rigid Steel and Intermediate Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton b. Cooper Crouse Hinds c. Efcor d. Midwest e. O.Z./Gedney f. Raco/Hubbell g. Spring City h. Steel City/Thomas & Betts i. Thomas & Betts 41. Service Switch Assemblies and Distribution Switchboards Approved Manufacturers: a. American Switchboard b. All City Switchboard c. Atlas Switchboard d. Electrotech e. Lincoln Electric Co. 42. Submetering and Power Quality Metering When a metered feed to a building is removed or changed, the new electrical feed shall be similarly metered. Approved Manufacturers: a. Siemens b. Ion/Schneider c. General Electric d. PQube e. Satec 43. System Identification Equipment Labels shall conform to equipment nomenclature found within these design guidelines and shall be engraved plastic nameplates with a black surface and white core with engraved letters for normal power and red surface and white core for emergency power. Engraved lettering shall be a minimum of 2” in letter height for: Panels Disconnect switches Main Switch boards ATS Transformers UPS NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 422 2023 Distribution branch circuits shall have ½” lettering. Conduit and cable labelling identifying the circuit designation shall be every 5’ in concealed areas and 10’ in un concealed areas. Raceway identification color coding shall be provided as follows:Normal Power White on Black TEXT Emergency Power, Fire Alarm, ATS/MTSWhite on Red TEXT Life Safety Branch White on Red TEXT Critical Branch White on Blue TEXT Optional Standby Systems White on Blue TEXT UPS Black on Yellow TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT 44. Transient Voltage Surge Suppression Surge suppression shall be integral to electrical panels located in IDF and BDF rooms. Approved Manufacturers: a. Current Technology b. General Electric c. Liebert d. United Technologies 45. Type "AC" (Armored Cable) Conductor Cables, 600 Volts or Less All shall be UL Listed. Armored Cable shall be hospital grade BX. In lieu of armored cable, metal clad (aluminum) is allowable. Approved Manufacturers: a. AFC b. Alflex c. Southwire 46. Vibration Isolation Devices and Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Amber/Booth Company b. Korfund Dynamics Corporation c. Mason Industries, Inc. d. Vibration Eliminator Company e. Vibration Mounting and Controls, Inc. 47. Wall Dimmers Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 423 2023 48. Wire Connectors and Lugs All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. AMP b. Anderson/Hubbell c. Burndy d. Homac e. Ideal f. ITT Blackburn g. MAC h. Thomas & Betts i. Tyco Electronics/AMP j. Union Connector Co. k. 3M 49. UPS (Central) Factory testing shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. UPS shall have webserver capabilities to login (with credentials) to view all operating characteristics of unit. This link shall be integrated within the BMS. Provide power conditioners for sensitive medical imaging (MRI, LINAC, etc.) Approved Manufacturers: a. Liebert (data equipment only) b. Mitsubishi (medical equipment only) 50. UPS (Rack Mounted) Refer to IT design guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 424 2023 F. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Remove bypass from Automatic Transfer Switch for off site locations. 2 Change conduit labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. END OF ELECTRICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 425 2023 4. PLUMBING A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The entire installation shall comply with the City of New York Building Codes, NYC Department of Health, Department of Environmental Protection Agency, and all other applicable local Codes. B. Design Criteria I. Domestic Hot Water Plant Temperature shall be: 140°F in Kimmel Pavilion, all other spaces shall be 120°F. II. Patient room maximum domestic water temperature shall be: 110°F. III. Plumbing fixtures shall be of high efficiency conserving type to comply with the City of New York Water Conservation requirements. IV. All domestic water piping shall be type “L” copper, unless otherwise dictated by code. V. Point of use mixing valves shall be provided under all lavatories, hand sinks, pantry sinks and similar fixtures where required by code. VI. Pressure at fixtures shall be designed to provide a maximum of 85 psi. VII. Pressure reducing valves shall be installed wherever the water pressure exceeds 85 psi. VIII. The piping shall be sized to provide a maximum velocity of 6 feet per second (fps) in the mains, and 4 fps in all branch piping. IX. Hose bibs with ¾ inch male hose threads and vacuum breaker shall be provided in all mechanical spaces. X. Mechanical rooms and water service rooms shall be provided with floor drains and waterless trap seals (Liquid Breaker Green Drain). XI. All sanitary, vent and storm drainage piping above the design flood elevation (DFE) shall be hubless cast iron pipe with heavy duty couplings or hub and spigot piping with push on gaskets. Piping 4” and less shall be hubless, 5” and greater shall be hub and spigot. All piping within cellars shall be hub and spigot. XII. Storm piping, sump discharge piping and ejector discharge piping located below the design flood elevation shall be grooved, schedule 40 galvanized steel pipe with mechanical couplings. Alternative materials shall be used for sump discharge piping where dictated by ground water quality. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 426 2023 XIII. All sanitary, vent and storm drainage piping buried below slab, draining to an ejector or sump pit shall be extra heavy hub and spigot cast iron with push on gaskets. XIV. All sanitary, vent, and storm piping below the design flood elevation (DFE) shall be ductile iron with mechanical couplings. XV. All natural gas piping with gas pressures ½ psig and less shall be schedule 40 steel piping with threaded fittings for sizes up to and including 3 inches and natural gas piping larger than 3 inches shall be schedule 40 piping with welded joints. XVI. All natural gas piping with gas pressures greater than ½ psig shall be schedule 40 steel piping with welded joints. XVII. All medical gas piping and vacuum piping shall be brazed. XVIII. Medical fittings, valves and piping shall come cleaned and flushed in sealed packaging from the manufacturer. XIX. Polypropylene piping shall be mechanically joined with coupling and additional restraints shall be provided at all offsets. Fused joints shall not be used. XX. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup. XXI. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XXII. Medical gas takeoffs from riser shall be full size throughout floor loop. The piping size shall not be reduced on a floor loop. Takeoffs from floor loops shall be sized adequately. XXIII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. XXIV. All domestic water recirculating lines shall be balanced by a certified testing and balancing contractor. C. Equipment 1. Acid Neutralization Systems shall be centralized and comprised of sediment tank, pre treatment tank (no limestone), chemical injection tank and sampling tank in compliance with DEP standards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Town and Country NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 427 2023 2. Backflow Preventers Approved Manufacturers: a. Watts b. Febco 3. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) See Mechanical subsection 4. Drains Weep hole drains are not allowed unless liners are designed as part of the system and installed as such. Approved Manufacturers: a. Josam b. JR Smith c. Zurn 5. Electric Water Coolers Approved Manufacturers: a. Elkay b. Filtrine c. Halsey Taylor 6. Fixture Supports Approved Manufacturers: a. Jay R. Smith b. Josam c. Wade d. Zurn 7. Flow Measuring Devices A positive displacement meter shall be installed for domestic water systems if one is required. Status of meter and flowrate shall be monitored on the building management system. Confirm with NYULH facilities with meter manufacturer. 8. Gauges and Thermometers Temperature Scale Ranges: Domestic Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F Steam Piping: 212 to 250 deg F Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Digital Vari Angle Thermometers (Digital Solar) to be used in place of Liquid In Glass type. Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 428 2023 Switches, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Watts Regulator b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid 4) Square D d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler 9. Hot Water Heaters Approved Manufacturers: a. Patterson Kelley Company b. A.O. Smith 10. Insulation Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armacell b. Armstrong c. Knauf d. Johns Manville e. Owens Corning Fiberglas (O C F) f. P.P.G. (Pittsburgh Plate Glass) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 429 2023 11. Medical Air Compressors Compressors shall be oil less reciprocating compressors and compliant with the latest NFPA 99 standards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes 12. Medical Gas Equipment Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes 13. Medical Gas Outlets Outlets shall be DISS type, having a minimum pig tail connection point of ½” for all services. Vacuum and WAGD piping shall drop individually to each outlet. Header piping shall be readily accessible and shall be a minimum of 1”. Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes made by Hill Rom 14. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 430 2023 b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg 15. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 16. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) VFDs and VFD bypass shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. General Electric c. Toshiba d. Yaskawa Electric America 17. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 18. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. Clamp free acid waste piping allowable only under a sink where piping ties into the trap. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 431 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) 19. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 20. Pipe Joint Compound The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. LACO b. Rector Seal c. Hercules 21. Plumbing Fixtures Approved Manufacturers: a. American Standard b. Kohler c. Toto d. Zurn e. Elkay f. Moen g. Sloan h. Bradley i. Just Mfg. j. Chicago Faucets k. T&S Brassworks NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 432 2023 22. Purified Water System Equipment (Reverse Osmosis and Deionized Systems) Approved Manufacturers: a. Hydro (except for dialysis) b. Evoqua 23. Safety Showers/Eyewashes Eyewash stations shall be manual hand type. Showers shall be ball valve pull type. Approved Manufacturers: a. Guardian Equipment b. WaterSaver Faucet Co. 24. Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Tolco 25. Sump Pumps and Ejectors Pumps shall be provided with hoisting capabilities within area of equipment. There shall be a hook in the ceiling slab or rail system. Switches, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. Flygt b. Tsunami c. Gorman Rupp 26. System Identification Refer to Mechanical system identification for requirements 27. Toilet Seats Approved Manufacturers: a. Church b. Olsonite 28. Vacuum Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes b. Nash c. Camel 29. Valves Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. All mixing valves shall be installed with check valves on the hot and cold water lines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 433 2023 Ball valves must be used for manual isolation on all domestic hot and cold water systems. Butterfly valves shall be reviewed by Facilities Operations. Gate valves are not permitted unless specifically required by codes or DEP. All valves used in plumbing systems shall close bubble tight and be suitable for dead end service designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves located more than 7 feet above the finished floor, shall be provided with a chain wheel for operation from the floor. All fire protection valves installed 7 feet above floor or stair landing shall be provided with chain wheels and shall be padlocked securely in place. All valves 4” and larger shall be stainless steel or all hot and cold water. Ball valves shall be installed on piping up to 3” in size. Butterfly valves shall be installed on piping 4” and above. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Valves 1) Apollo 2) Nibco b. Butterfly Valves 1) Apollo c. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each pressurized water vessel and as required by Code. Relief valves shall meet the maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment for which it is installed. Relief valve piping shall be full sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to the floor. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Febco 3) Watts 4) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 5) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) d. Temperature Mixing Valves (under sink) 1) Leonard 2) Powers 3) Holby 4) Watts e. Master Mixing Stations 1) Holby NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 434 2023 30. Water Supply Pumps All pumps shall be provided with premium efficiency motors. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Butterfly valves shall not be used on the pump suction. Piping and pumps shall be independently supported. All piping within 50 feet of pump shall be supported with hangers having spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance, which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Aurora c. Bell & Gossett d. Gould e. Peerless f. Weinman g. US Pump Corp D. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 2 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF PLUMBING SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 435 2023 5. FIRE PROTECTION A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, Factory Mutual Global Insurance or another insurance underwriter and all other applicable local Codes. Architectural and Engineering construction drawings shall specifically state that fire protection systems (standpipe, sprinkler and fire alarm/detection systems) and construction partitions during construction shall comply with the following: All projects: • The contractor shall provide the required fire watch for the duration of any fire protection system or rated construction partition impairment. • NYULH safety policy 120 Construction Safety Requirements • NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems • NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code Projects in New York City: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction or Demolition • Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2017 009 (or superseding bulletin) • Fire Code Chapter 14 Fire Safety during Construction, Alteration and Demolition Projects in New York State: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction • Fire Code Chapter 33 Fire Safety during Construction and Demolition Healthcare and Ambulatory Care occupancies: • NFPA 101 Life Safety Code • NFPA 241 Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations B. Design Criteria I. Buildouts shall be provided with full sprinkler protection and sprinkler systems shall be hydraulically calculated in accordance with the current City of New York Building Code and NYC Fire Department requirements. II. Fire department standpipe connections shall be provided with a 2 1/2 fire hose valve and hose rack on every landing of every required stairway. III. Areas without ceilings (storage, mechanical spaces, etc.) shall utilize upright sprinkler heads. IV. Areas with suspended ceilings (back of house areas, bathrooms, offices, etc.) shall utilize concealed sprinkler heads. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 436 2023 V. Areas subject to freezing shall utilize a dry pipe sprinkler system with upright sprinkler heads. VI. Fuel Oil storage rooms shall be protected with a wet type foam sprinkler system or as reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. VII. New and retro fitted sprinkler systems shall have at least a 1 1/2” valve connection for draining. VIII. Electrical Closets shall be provided with wet side wall sprinkler heads each with protective cages. IX. Elevator machine rooms that fall under DOH jurisdiction shall be protected by alternate means of fire suppression. This shall apply to new construction or major overhaul. X. System types (wet, dry, preaction, foam, alternatives) must be reviewed with NYU Langone project managers and also with Facilities Operations during design development. XI. Pre Action systems shall be installed in X Ray, Gamma Knife, LINAC and any other similar sensitive equipment rooms. XII. Flexible sprinkler connections are allowed to be used in non New York City projects where applicable by code. Hoses shall be braided stainless steel with proper pressure rating. The flexible sprinkler connection shall be used in conjunction with an approved manufacturer ceiling mounting bracket. Mounting brackets shall be attached to a ceiling’s main tee bar support and not cross support rail members. Care shall be taken to prevent unnecessary movement which can dislodge ceiling mounting bracket when sprinkler is discharging. This may include supporting flexible sprinkler connection to building structure independent of the ceiling suspension and support system. XIII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. XIV. Specify “Stat X” for article 28 elevator machine rooms in article 28 spaces in NYC. XV. Side wall sprinkler heads are preferred in IDF and BDF technology rooms. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 437 2023 C. Equipment 1. Anchors and Inserts Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Hilti c. Philips d. Simpson Strong Tie 2. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Allen Bradley b. ASCO c. General Electric d. Gould Westinghouse 3. Motors Approved Manufacturers: a. Baldor b. General Electric c. Toshiba d. U.S. Electric 4. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 5. Piping Piping shall be painted per building codes. Piping up to flow control assemblies shall be painted red. Approved Manufacturers: a. Flanges 1) Grinnell 2) Ladish 3) National Flange 4) Taylor Forge 5) Weld Bend b. Screwed Fittings 1) Central 2) Grinnell 3) Ward NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 438 2023 6. Preaction Control Panel/Equipment Pre action systems shall be addressable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Simplex b. Notifier c. Kidde Fire Systems 7. Preaction/Dry Pipe Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Reliable b. Viking c. Victaulic 8. Pressure Reducing Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Cla Val b. Watts 9. Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. Fire Pump Controllers 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Joslyn Clark 3) Hubbell (mercury free options) b. Fire Pump Controller Automatic Transfer Switch 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Eaton 3) Russelectric c. Fire Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Patterson 3) Peerless d. Jockey Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Groundfos 3) Peerless NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 439 2023 10. Standpipe System Equipment (Siamese, fire hose valves, fire hose cabinets, and racks, etc.) Approved Manufacturers: a. Badger Powhattan b. Croker c. Elkhart d. Potter Roemer 11. Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Tolco 12. Sprinkler Heads, Valves, Alarms, Etc. Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Reliable c. Viking 13. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality stickers. Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded per ASME A13.1). Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 in diameter, brass, aluminum or stainless steel with letters 2in in height. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Specify in specifications to post laminated valve tag schedules in space. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 440 2023 14. Tamper Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Acme b. Grinnell c. Potter (mercury free options) d. System Sensor (mercury free options) e. Viking 15. Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Butterfly Valves 1) Grinnell 2) Jamesbury 3) Jenkins 4) NIBCO 5) Victaulic b. Check Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Kennedy 4) Mueller 5) NIBCO 6) Victaulic c. Gate Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Jenkins 4) Kennedy 5) NIBCO 6) Walworth 16. Vibration Isolators Approved Manufacturers: a. Amber Booth b. Korfund Dynamics Corp. c. Mason Industries d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings & Controls 17. Water Flow Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Potter Electric Signal Company (mercury free options) b. System Sensor NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 441 2023 18. Water Proof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Thunderline Corp. “Link Seal” D. Cost Saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 2 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF FIRE PROTECTION SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 442 2023 6. FIRE ALARM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, and all other applicable local Codes. B. Design Criteria I. The following buildings have their separate respective EST3 fire alarm systems: a. Tisch Hospital b. Smilow Research Center c. Medical Science Building/Alumni Hall and Coles d. Schwartz Health Care Center e. 660 First Avenue f. 545 First Avenue II. All audibles and strobes shall be synced. III. Chimes shall be installed in all sensitive areas in lieu of tones/horns. Sensitive areas include Operating Rooms, NICU, Anesthesiology, and Pre Surgical. Contact Facilities Operations prior to designing in sensitive areas. Contractor shall obtain waiver if chimes are used in lieu of tones/horns. IV. For Operating Rooms: a. During a detected fire/smoke alarm, only the fan/unit serving the Operating Room which the alarm was generated at shall shut down. All other operating room fans shall stay operational. For central AHU systems a variance is required to be filed with the FDNY and DOB and shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. V. Newly installed smoke heads shall stay covered until completion of project. No more that dirty heads shall be accepted upon project completion. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. C. Equipment 1. Fire Alarm System Approved Manufacturers (no substitutes): a. Edwards EST3 (Manhattan Superblock) b. (Brooklyn Campus) Contact Brooklyn Facilities c. (Long Island Campus) Contact Long Island Facilities d. Contact Real Estate & Housing Group for all off site locations for manufacturer 2. Heat Detectors Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA2 HFS NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 443 2023 3. Strobe/Speaker Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSPSTR Series 4. Strobe/Horn Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LHSR Series 5. Strobe Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSTR Series 6. Smoke Detector Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA OSD 7. Duct Detector Above ceiling devices shall have separate LED indication and test buttons with magnetic test switch. Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA SDH 8. Manual Pull Station Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST 270 Series 9. Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems shall be installed in all Mechanical and Electrical rooms that have ceilings above 10 feet or where conduits/ductwork/equipment/etc. will prevent maintenance of smoke detector heads. Approved Manufacturers: a. VESDA END OF FIRE ALARM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 444 2023 7. BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Department of Fire, Department of Environmental Protection Agency and all other applicable local Codes. For properties located outside of the City of New York, the entire installation shall comply with all applicable local codes and standards. B. General Requirements and Policy i. General • For renovation work in existing buildings, the existing manufacturer shall be used. For example, the Kimmel Pavilion in the Main Campus is served by an Automated Logic Corporation system. Any modifications to the existing control system shall utilize Automated Logic Corporation controllers. • All controllers, sensors, field devices, etc., shall be UL listed. Control units shall be listed for UL 916 Energy Management Equipment. ii. Engineering • Design engineer shall provide a Network Riser as part of their design documentation. The Design Engineer shall not rely on the BMS contractor to create this. • Ensure BMS sequences of operation align with control sensors indicated on single line drawings. • Ensure BMS network is not on the IT network. • AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. • All new BAS installations shall utilize IP based local controllers. • For all systems that leverage both water and air to maintain climate control, always use water to achieve setpoints prior to additional use of air beyond minimum. o Minimum airflow determined by ventilation and/or pressurization requirements. iii. IP/IT Security • For details on policy for IP/IT security, reference the NYU Langone Health Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. • For sites with existing BMS's on the MCIT network, the BMS can remain on the MCIT network. For new sites installing a BMS, the BMS network should be stand alone and not part of the MCIT network. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 445 2023 iv. BMS Governance for Locations Not Owned by NYULH For NYULH locations not owned by NYULH (landlord locations): • Equipment owned and operated by NYULH shall be connected to the NYULH BMS. If an NYULH BMS does not exist, it shall be installed. • Equipment owned and operated by the landlord shall remain on the landlord's BMS. • Under no circumstances shall a project connect NYULH maintained equipment to an existing landlord BMS network. v. Factory Acceptance/Witness Test Factory tests are required for new BMS Panels installs, Panels shall be reviewed and graphics/sequences tested at controls factory prior to shipment, this only applies to large equipment and systems. vi. Decommissioning and Demolition General • For any decommissioning and demolition worked performed on the NYULH Manhattan main campus, the engineer and project team shall follow the “NYULH Manhattan Campus BMS Controller Removal From Field and Database document. Obtain for Manhattan main campus facilities group. • The following items must be included within the “General Scope of Work” section of the Contract Documents: o As existing mechanical and electrical systems are demolished and replaced with new systems, the existing control system serving the demolished equipment must also be removed from the BMS, in its entirety, inclusive of all field devices, controllers, wiring and server related programming (i.e., graphics, trends, alarms, database, etc.) o The BATC Contractor is responsible for removing all items described below. Failure to complete any item listed below will require the BATC Contractor to perform this service free of charge when discovered, regardless of how much time has lapsed since the original demo project. o Prior to starting the decommissioning process, determine whether all points located within the controller are required to be decommissioned. If not, notify NYULH Facility Management Team to determine if the remaining points are to be relocated to a different controller or the controller is to remain. o The BATC Contractor shall be responsible for updating existing “as built” drawings for any systems/equipment which is demolished. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 446 2023 Decommissioning of Software • Remove all controller databases. • Transfer all alarms, trends and graphics associated with the system to Decommissioned Links graphic. o Note: Decommissioned Links graphic shall not be made available to typical users. For use by the BATC Contractor and the NYULH Facility Management Team management only. • Update all building and campus summary graphics to remove decommissioned systems. Decommissioning of Hardware • Determine whether the controller is the only controller on the power circuit. If so, label the circuit breaker (located in existing power distribution panel) as Spare. • Determine if the controller is at end of run of communication loop or if communication loop is dedicated to this controller. If controller is not at end of run in communication loop, then re terminate communication wiring such that existing controllers on same loop continue communications to server. o If controller is at end of run in communication loop, relocate any end of line resistors to the next controller in line. • Disconnect the following from the controller: o Communication wiring. o Power wiring. o All field wiring. • Remove conduit and wiring as much as possible. At a minimum, conduit and wiring shall be removed up to shaft or wall penetrations. Remaining conduit and wiring shall be tagged Not In Use. • Remove all control panels and field devices. Coordinate with NYULH Facility Management Team to determine whether any of the existing controllers and field devices may be used as attic stock. vii. Delivery, Storage and Handling • Shipping and storage protection shall be provided by manufacturer to ensure that the interior and exterior of components are completely protected from damage, dirt or weather. Components shall be continuously covered with plastic or other durable means, until just prior to installation. Maintain protection after installation to protect against on going construction activities. viii. Project Closeout General Requirements: • The following items must be included within the “Project Closeout” section of the Contract Documents: o Systems will not be added to the BMS network until they are fully commissioned, training has taken place, and operation and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 447 2023 o Training must be completed prior to occupancy and Facility Management Team acceptance. o The BATC Contractor will provide onsite 24/7 coverage for all warrantied systems until commissioning and training is complete and operations and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. Testing and Calibrating: • Commission and test the final installed system prior to acceptance by the Facility Management Team. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to calibrate and prepare for service control components, instrumentation and field devices. o This work includes: Zero, span and range calibration checks of instruments and accessories, both field mounted and panel mounted. In addition, check actuators, control valves and dampers to ensure proper action. Stroke each valve and damper actuator and make necessary adjustments for stem and blade travel. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to check the operation of control loops, set points and interlocks. Test every input/output point for proper performance through the entire system and maintain accurate test records for each point throughout the testing cycle and thereafter. The Facility Management Team reserves the right to inspect those test records at any time and also to witness any of the point tests they deem appropriate. • All equipment used for testing and calibration shall be NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable and calibrated within the preceding 12 month period. Certificates of calibration shall be available for review by the Facility Management Team. ix. Warranty • Warranty direct digital control units, field devices, components, etc., to be free from defects in workmanship and material for a period of one (1) year from completion of final commissioning, which may occur beyond equipment acceptance and initial occupancy by NYULH. During this period, BATC Contractor shall furnish all labor to repair or replace all items or components that fail due to defects in workmanship or material. • Failures on control systems, including all computer equipment, transmission equipment and all sensors and control devices during the warranty period, shall be adjusted, repaired or replaced at no additional cost or reduction in service to NYULH. • Provide necessary preventive maintenance on the system during the warranty period. Provide updates to operator workstation and server software, project specific software, graphic software, database software and firmware that resolve software deficiencies at no charge during warranty period. • During the warranty period, BATC Contractor shall test the system under varying seasonal conditions to ensure that all operational sequences, as specified, are performed correctly. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 448 2023 o This shall include at least three additional visits after initial NYULH Facility Management Team acceptance. Where necessary, BATC Contractor shall make programming adjustments and instrument calibrations at no expense to NYULH. • At the end of the warranty period update “as built” documentation to reflect any modifications made during the warranty period. • Uncompleted Work Period: At the end of the warranty period, a five year uncompleted work period shall begin. The uncompleted work period shall be used to determine if the BATC Contractor has completed the entire scope of work as required for the project. If work has been found to be incomplete or never installed, as determined by the NYULH Facility Management Team, the BATC Contractor shall be responsible for completing the work at no additional cost to NYULH. x. User Access Levels Follow NYULH Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. xi. Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTU: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White C. Locations i. NYULH Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Automated Logic Corporation b. Schneider Electric c. Laboratory Control Solutions: Kimmel Pavilion; Medical Science Building; Science Building; Smilow Research Center; Tisch Hospital, Skirball i. Flow tracking applications ii. Fume hood applications NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 449 2023 ii. NYULH Long Island The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Tridium Niagara iii. NYULH Brooklyn The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Trane Tracer ii. NYULH LOH The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. C&S Building Services iii. NYULH Real Estate & Housing For sites that have an NYULH managed BMS on premises, confirm in writing with the NYULH Real Estate group that the existing BMS network is sufficient and not obsolete. For sites that do not have an NYULH managed BMS on premises the following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Schneider b. ALC D. People The following individuals/groups are named throughout the BAS Standard: • NYULH Project Manager • NYULH Facility Management Team • NYULH Senior Controls Specialists o For the NYULH Long Island campus, the Controls Shop Manager acts in this role • NYULH Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH MCIT • Engineer of Record • Building Automation Temperature Controls (BATC) Contractor These individuals/groups are to produce, approve, be consulted on or be informed of all deliverables as indicated in the Deliverables Approval Matrix. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 450 2023 Deliverables Approval Matrix: Approved BMS Vendors: Reference the NYULH Approved Vendors List for vendors that are authorized to install the site specific BMS manufacturer’s product line. E. Deliverables i. Drawings & Specifications a. Control Signal Line Diagrams The Engineer of Record shall produce one control single line diagram per system type. Each shall consist of the following: • Piping and instrumentation diagram • Hardwire interlocks • All required BAS points, alarms and trends NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 451 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) b. Smart Comfort Program Strategies Energy Saving Strategies: • Engineer of Record shall analyze each individual space and consider its use to develop a strategic energy saving sequence during unoccupied periods. • These areas shall also have a means of placing the system back into an occupied mode • Strategies that shall be considered, but not limited to, are as follows: • Flow Setbacks • Temperature setbacks • Lighting control Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) ii. BAS Submittal • All BAS submittals shall be developed using approved submittals and shop drawings. Design documents as well as non approved submittals and shop drawings are not acceptable for use in BAS submittal development. Submittals for each project, regardless of scope and size, shall consist of the following: • All subsections of the BAS Submittal that shall be submitted as independent deliverables. o Network Architecture Diagram o Control Valve Schedule o Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations o Schedule of BMS Alarms o BMS System Graphics o Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence o Test Forms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 452 2023 • Compliance document consisting of Specifications 23 0900 and 23 0993 and, at each section, paragraph and subparagraph, identify compliance or non compliance by C (Comply), D (Deviate) or E (Exception). For each D and E item, describe what specific alternative approach has been taken. • Specification sheets for each type of electronic sensors, transmitters, controllers, actuators, relays, switches and miscellaneous control devices. • Schedule and specification sheets for control damper actuators, including material and construction details, duct size, damper size, actuator mounting location and quantity of actuators. Actuator sizing calculations and configuration shall be submitted. Actuators to be selected based on approved sheet metal shop drawings and damper submittals. • DDC controller point list. • Point nomenclature. o Projects which are adding or modifying equipment in an existing NYULH site with an existing BMS, keep reference and point names consistent with the rest of the system. This applies to graphics, program definition, etc. • Control diagrams for each system with a written sequence of operation and control devices identified with instrument tag numbers. Control diagrams to include symbol and abbreviation list. o Sequence of operation shall not be a facsimile of the engineer’s project documentation o Note: For variable air volume air handling systems, control diagrams are to indicate field installed location of end of duct static pressure transmitters. • The BMS vendor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers (CB), power supplies (PS), transformers (TX), control relays (CR), terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. Check figure CPL 01 as a reference for the control panel layout. Figure CPL 01A shows the control panel layout if the control panel has an external power source control panel. Ladder type electrical diagrams for each control system with terminal connections identified by number and location. Include symbol and abbreviation list for electrical control diagrams. • Complete listing and description of program routines resident in direct digital control units. • Schedule of all points trended for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and trend interval. • Riser diagrams for power and communication with locations labeled for all controllers, transformers and other relevant control components. • Panelboard from which power shall be taken, along with total power to be taken from each panelboard. • Interfaces (software and hardware) with equipment provided in other subsections of the specifications. Show connection details based upon the approved submittals of the equipment being interfaced with. For software interfaces (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.), submit list of all interface points transmitted to or received from the equipment. • List of OEM equipment interface points as well as configuration point mapping. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 453 2023 • Mechanical piping shop drawings indicating proposed locations of all temperature, flow and pressure transmitters. • Wiring and control diagrams, dimension and specification sheets, and sequence of operation for the flow tracking system and all of its components. • Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, submittal documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to NYULH Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive submittal indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. • Reviews shall be conducted by: o Senior Controls Specialists o Engineering and Commissioning o Approval shall be by Engineer of Record • The following submittals can be included in the overall BAS submittal or submitted as standalone documents: a. Network Architecture Diagram Submittal shall consist of the following: • System Architecture Drawing Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed location of communication loop and risers. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record b. Control Valve Schedule Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of automatic control valves and motorized block valves. The schedule shall list body pressure rating, close off pressure rating, flow coefficient (Cv), pressure drop at specified capacity, rangeability and valve flow characteristics. • Specification sheets for each valve. • Valves shall be sized based on approved equipment shop drawings, not mechanical schedules. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 454 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record c. Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations Submittal shall consist of the following: • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed locations of all wall mounted devices (i.e., DDC units, control panels, sensors, thermostats, risers, etc.). d. Schedule of BMS Alarms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of all alarms (hardwired and software generated) for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and alarm value. • Description of smart alarm program as it applies for each system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record e. BMS Graphics Submittal shall consist of the following: • PDF copies of proposed graphics to be added to the BMS. • BMS graphics to show proposed layout of BAS points and any diagrams or tables as required. • BMS graphics shall be developed based on NYU standard graphic symbols, colors and design as found in the Smarts section under HMI/Graphics. • All BMS graphics shall be coordinated with NYULH. • BMS graphics shall include system maps showing overlays of single line mechanical systems. o System map overlays shall be allowed to toggle between Off, Supply, Exhaust, Supply and Exhaust, Reheat Water, Chilled Water and Perimeter Hot Water systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 455 2023 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record f. Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence Submittal shall consist of the following: • Detailed description of software program for controller reboot sequence. • Detailed description of software program for controller power failure restart program sequence. • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Facility Management Team • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record g. Test Forms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Checklists of testing procedures, including point to point wiring and sequence check. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 456 2023 iii. Closeout Documents a. Acceptance Documents The following Closeout Documents shall be reviewed and accepted prior to final acceptance of the project by NYULH: • Operation and Maintenance Documentation o As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format o As Built Database • 72 Hour Trend Reports • BAS Vendor Service Agreement b. Operation and Maintenance Documentation On completion of installation, system commissioning and Facility Management Team acceptance, the BATC Contractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals. Manuals shall be updated each time changes are made to the system. Manual shall be submitted through BuildFlow electronically. In addition, one hard copy shall be furnished in a three ring binder and provided to the local Engineering Office. Operation and maintenance documentation shall consist of the following: • Table of contents • As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format • Programming manual containing the following: o Documentation of all project specific application and BMS programs o All passwords and/or required access credentials o Complete final point schedule including all hardware and software data points and documentation of calibration and configuration values for all inputs, outputs, variables and PID loops at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing o System database as functional at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing, including all graphics and images used by and/or created on electronic format • Parts list containing supplier information (manufacturer name, address, telephone number and website address) with complete component model number and ordering information. • Final calibration, commissioning and testing reports. • Warranty letters for all installed systems and components. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 457 2023 Operation and maintenance manual must be submitted to the Facility Management Team prior to occupancy. Systems will not be accepted by NYULH without submission and approval of operation and maintenance manuals. i. As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format Submittal shall consist of the following, which shall represent the "as built" condition of the system and incorporate all information supplied with the approved submittals, inclusive of: • Updated existing system architecture drawing, inclusive of any modifications made during the project construction. • Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Sequence of operation • Bill of Material • Control diagrams depicting controlled system configuration indicating all field devices • Control panel wiring diagrams o Include power panel number and circuit breaker number feeding each control panel • Starter/VFD interface wiring diagrams • Point list for all hardwired input/output points • Point list for all input/output points derived via communication interface (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.) with third party equipment such as air conditioning units, variable frequency drives and chillers • Floor plans indicating exact location of all devices • All other items listed as requirements of the BAS Submittal Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, “as built” documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to the Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive “as built” shop drawing indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record With each local control panel, provide a paper copy of the “as built” control diagram, sequence of operation, bill of material and point list for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 458 2023 the equipment served by the control panel. Documentation shall be placed in a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door. ii. As Built Database A composite “as built” database shall be created and updated at completion of each project. The database shall consist of the following: • All “as built” documentation • Project start and completion dates • Warranty start and completion date • Brief description of project scope • Names of the BATC Contractor project team: • Project Manager • Field technicians • Software programmers • Subcontractor name and contact information • Software database • Software shall be accessible via dynamic link on respective equipment graphics c. 72 Hour Trend Reports Submittal shall consist of the following: • Trending data for 72 hour automatic system operation. • Trending data to include all relevant hardwired and software data points associated with the system that shall indicate that the system is operating as per design intent. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record F. Performance and Functional Requirements i. System Requirements Note: for details on the software functions listed for each system, see the corresponding software function in the “Functional Requirements” section. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 459 2023 a. Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) Hardware • Pressure independent unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor utilizing differential pressure sensing. • Damper actuator shall be fail in place type. • For terminal units with reheat coils, provide discharge temperature transmitter. • Reheat coil control valves shall be spring return fail closed. • Space temperature sensor located in occupied areas shall be indicating and adjustable with a limit of ± 3°F (adjustable). o Where multiple sensors are installed in a room served by multiple terminal units, only one sensor shall be indicating and adjustable type. o Set point adjustment shall be common for all terminal units serving a room. • Space temperature sensors located in unoccupied or transient areas such as corridors are to be non indicating and non adjustable. • Space temperature sensors for vivarium spaces shall be duct mounted. Setpoints shall be adjusted via BMS only. • Transformer, damper actuator, unitary controller with differential pressure transmitter and fuse shall be mounted in a NEMA 1 steel enclosure with removable screw cover. Disconnect switch to be mounted external to panel. Switch activation shall not require removal of enclosure panel. • Provide occupancy sensors to enable setback functions Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Night Setback • Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • Cooling and heating set points should adjust up and down and maintain a built in bias of 2°F (adjustable). • All boxes must contain a k factor in the software depending on box size according to manufacturer as well as a calibration factor. o Formula: Sqrt(Velocity Pressure)*(Box Size k factor)*(Balancer’s Reading/BMS Reading) • Alarms • Demand Response • Air quality system interface for air change rate adjustment • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 460 2023 Points • Terminal unit airflow reading • Terminal unit airflow set point • Discharge temperature (for units with reheat coils only) • Discharge temperature set point (for units with reheat coils only) • Reheat coil valve command (for units with reheat coils only) • Space temperature • Space temperature set points • Space temperature high and low alarm limits • Occupied heat/cool set points • Unoccupied heat/cool set points • Damper position • Occupancy mode • Perimeter radiation valve command (for units with perimeter heating only) • Include six additional software points to be defined by NYULH. b. Fan Powered VAV All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Fan Powered VAVs as well. In addition, provide the following: • Run status monitoring of fan via current sensing relay. • On actuation of a life safety alarm in the area served by the terminal unit, the unit fan shall stop and the primary air damper shall fully open. • Additional points: o Fan start/stop o Fan run status c. Flow Tracking Applications All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Flow Tracking Applications as well. In addition, provide the following: • A control panel for each tracking pair that shall contain the control unit, supply terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and control transformer. The supply terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, flow cross airflow sensor, and supply air temperature transmitter (located downstream of the reheat coil). The exhaust terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, exhaust terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and flow cross airflow sensor. o Minimum airflow sensor measurement accuracy shall be ± of actual airflow and shall have a repeatability within ± 0. over the entire airflow range of each air terminal. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 461 2023 • Additional software functions: o Flow Tracking Control o Fume Hood Control • Additional points: o Fume hood exhaust flow o Fume hood exhaust low flow alarm. o Supply/makeup airflow o General exhaust flow o Total exhaust flow o Total supply flow o Room offset • Flow Tracking Terminal Units Associated with Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply, general exhaust and fume hood terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (4 20 mA input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Loss of electric power or control signal shall cause the exhaust damper to fail open to the maximum scheduled design flow, and the supply damper to fail closed to the minimum scheduled design flow. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 1.0 second for flow change from minimum flow to ninety percent () at nominal load. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet NEC Class 2 requirements. • Flow Tracking Terminal Units without Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply and general exhaust terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (0 10 VDC or 2 10 VDC input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 90 seconds. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet UL Class 2 requirements. Actuator shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC. • Spider type multiple probe airflow sensing tubes of the automatic averaging type shall be 316 or 304 stainless steel. Accuracy of the sensing tubes shall be ± 2. with a repeatability of 0. over a range of 0 3,000 ft./min. at 1 duct diameter upstream straight run duct. The flow signal shall also be used as the input to the BMS and also for balancing and field measurement of air volume. The following pertains specifically to fume hoods: • Operational Parameters (to be available to the NYULH Facility Management Team and authorized service personnel): o Fume hood average face velocity set point o Fume hood minimum and maximum exhaust airflow set points o Face velocity high and low alarm limits and associated alarm time delay to avoid transient alarms o Face velocity high and low warning limits o Emergency purge time periods and exhaust levels o Allowable maximum sash opening associated with the sash alert feature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 462 2023 • Pushbutton: Provide a mushroom type pushbutton and local audible annunciation (i.e., horn) located at the exit door of each area that contains a fume hood. The switch shall, on annunciation, drive the fume hood to maximum airflow. On activation of the pushbutton switch, the audible alarm shall be activated. Switch and audible alarm shall be provided with a label for user operation as per NYULH Health and Safety requirements. Labels shall state instructional operation and required actions that need to be perform, if needed. Switch shall be manually reset type furnished with protective cover to allow the switch to be viewable without tampering or accidental activation. • Hood Interface Module: The hood interface module shall provide emergency override, high flow alarm, low flow alarm, hood status lights and programmable audible alarm. Audible alarm shall be no more than 85 dB at 1 meter (95 dB at 1 meter for constant volume applications). Module shall be designed to fit in a 2 inch by 4 inch (single gang) electric box and mounted on the face of the fume hood. Connection using phone jack termination. All alarm set points shall be fully field programmable as well as the time delay interval prior to alarming. Module shall also allow high/low sash alarms and limits (does not apply to constant volume applications). All points shall be monitored at the flow tracking control unit. Alarm and mute functions shall automatically reset when the alarm condition ceases to exist. Alarm annunciation shall be as follows: o Normal Condition: Green LED lighted o Alarm Condition: Red LED lighted, indicating either:  Low face velocity (low hood airflow for constant volume applications)  High face velocity (high hood airflow for constant volume applications)  Emergency override o Caution or Control Transition: Green and red LED’s flash alternately o Buzzer: Energized in any alarm or override condition o Pushbutton Functions  Override: Push once  Reset to Normal Operation: Push once  Alarm Acknowledgment (Audible Mute): Push twice (LED remains lighted while alarm condition exists) d. Air Handling Units Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit per air handling unit • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive • Chilled water return temperature transmitter • Mixed air temperature transmitter • Utilize latching relays for air handling units serving critical areas (i.e., OR’s, Laboratories, Vivarium, patient areas) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 463 2023 • Humidifier valve control signal to be wired in series with fan run status contact. If fan is off, humidifier valve hardwired to close. • Damper actuators (outdoor, return, spill) must have spring return actuators with manual override. • Each preheat coil section to have individual temperature control valve with dedicated temperature sensor for low limit control. • Cooling coil to have one control valve for entire coil section with individual manual balancing valves on individual coil sections. • VFD’s must be programmed to skip resonance frequencies. Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Supply Air Temperature Control • Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • Humidification Control • Dehumidification Control • Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • Flow Control • Airside Economizer Control • Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • Indoor Air Quality Control • Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Fan Shutdown Mode • Fire Alarm Reset • Lead/lag Control • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure e. Packaged Air Conditioning Units Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Utilize latching relays for air conditioning units serving critical areas • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor Software • The unit shall be started locally and run continuously. The BMS shall be capable of starting and stopping the unit. • When running, the unit shall modulate the chilled water valve to maintain space temperature. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 464 2023 Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature • Space temperature set point • Chilled water valve position • Fan failure alarm • Common alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm • Low space temperature alarm f. Fan Coil Units Hardware • Unitary Controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor o Note: Unitary controller is to be powered by a transformer that is energized on its primary side from the line side of the power feed to fan coil unit. This is to prevent a communication loss to the controller when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. • Utilize latching relays for fan coil units serving critical areas. • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for cooling • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for heating o If fan coil unit has ducted unconditioned outdoor air, provide normally open valve for heating. Software • Fan Coil Unit Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature • Space temperature set point • Fan failure alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 465 2023 g. Exhaust Fans Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Low suction and discharge pressure switches • Space temperature (as required) • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive (as applicable) Software • Exhaust Fan Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Fan failure alarm • High space temperature alarm • Pressure switch alarms h. Chillers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve fifty percent () of chilled water plant equipment (e.g., chillers, pumps, cooling towers). Provide two control units per chiller plant. • Provide BACnet communication interface with factory provided chiller control panel. • Utilize latching relays for enable/disable. • Provide field devices for chilled water supply temperature and condenser water return temperature. Software • Chiller Control • Lead/lag Control Points • Enable/disable (hard wired) • Common alarm (hard wired) • Chiller run status • Chilled water supply temperature • Condenser water return temperature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 466 2023 i. Cooling Towers Hardware • Control to be incorporated within chiller BACnet IP controller or dedicated controller based on location of cooling tower with respect to chillers. • Monitor vibration alarm. • Monitor basin water temperature. • Monitor basin level. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. Software • Cooling Tower Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Cooling tower start/stop (hard wired) • Cooling tower run status (hard wired) • Condenser water supply temperature (hard wired) • Condenser water return temperature (hard wired) • Cooling tower fan runtime • Basin water temperature • Basin level • Speed feedback • Output frequency • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode • Cooling tower vibration alarm • Basin low water temperature alarm • Basin high water level alarm • Basin low water level alarm • Cooling tower fan excessive runtime alarm NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 467 2023 j. Pumps Hardware • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. • Differential pressure transmitters used for pump speed control shall be hardwired directly to the controller containing the analog output for pump speed control regardless of the transmitter location. Software • Variable Speed Pump Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Pump start/stop (hard wired) • Pump run status (hard wired) • Speed command (hard wired) • Speed feedback • Output frequency • Total Runtime • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode k. Heat Exchangers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve water system, including pumps and heat exchangers. • For systems with multiple heat exchangers, provide a supply water temperature sensor per each heat exchanger. Software • Lead/lag Control NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 468 2023 Points • Supply water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable) • Return water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable) • High supply water temperature alarm • Low supply water temperature alarm l. Expansion Tanks Hardware • Pressure transmitter Points • High pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi above operating pressure) • Low pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi below operating pressure) ii. Functional Requirements a. Fan Shutdown Mode • On a command to stop a fan, the fan shall ramp down to its minimum speed and the fan shall stop. • The fan discharge damper shall close slowly and shall not be fully closed until fan speed has decreased to approximately ten percent (). • The outdoor, return and spill air dampers shall close after the fan has stopped and the discharge damper has closed fully. • Refer to Unoccupied Mode. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units b. Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Supply floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the supply fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper are stopped. • Return floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the return fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper is off. • All supply and return dampers on a floor shall be controlled in a group via a hardwired connection to their respective fan’s variable frequency drive. o Supply dampers shall be grouped independently of return dampers. • Dampers shall be positioned open prior to fan starting regardless if fan is started from BMS, manual command from VFD, bypass function of VFD or fan start from fire alarm system. • End switch status of dampers shall be monitored. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 469 2023 Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units c. Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • The normally open steam preheat coil control valves, one (1) per coil, shall be under control of DDC software low limit controllers to maintain a minimum air temperature of 45°F leaving the preheat coils, signal as sensed by temperature transmitters on the leaving air side of each coil section. • The low limit set point shall be reset by the BMS based on outside air temperature. As outside air temperature drops, the low limit set point shall be raised. Reset parameters shall be adjustable. d. Airside Economizer Control • Economizer control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Global outside air enthalpy is enabled (i.e., outdoor air enthalpy is greater than 25 BTUs per pound of dry air) or outside air temperature plus an outside air temperature trigger deadband (adjustable) is less than the air handling unit return air temperature. o Supply fan status is proven on. o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode and Heating is off. • When enabled, the outside air damper, spill air damper and return air damper will modulate to maintain a mixed air temperature control set point (adjustable). • The mixed air control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point. • The supply air temperature error set point is based on how far off the supply air temperature is from the supply air temperature set point. o For example, if the supply air temperature is 53°F and the supply air temperature set point is 55°F then the supply air temperature error set point is 2°F. • A mixed air temperature error set point of 0 °F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a mixed air temperature heat gain set point. • The mixed air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). • The supply air temperature set point minus the mixed air temperature heat gain set point will determine the mixed air temperature control set point. • As the mixed air temperature increases above mixed air temperature control set point, the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate open and the return air damper will close proportionately. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 470 2023 • The reverse will occur on a decrease below the mixed air temperature control set point. • The outside air damper will maintain a minimum outside air flow set point (adjustable based upon the Minimum Outdoor Air Flow Quantity Control functional requirement). Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units e. Night Setback • Whenever the terminal unit fan is off, the system shall operate in the unoccupied mode. • During this mode, a DDC software program shall monitor the space temperature associated with a terminal unit. • On sensing a drop in space temperature to 55°F (adjustable), the controller shall start the terminal unit fan and maintain space temperature set point by modulating the reheat coil control valve and perimeter radiation control valve. • On achieving space temperature set point, the terminal unit fan shall stop, if still operating in the unoccupied mode, or continue to run switched to occupied mode. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation f. Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • A static pressure transmitter shall be located in the supply air duct, upstream of the furthest terminal unit served by the air handling unit. • The system's supply fan speed shall modulate to maintain supply static pressure set point. o As duct static pressure decreases, the controller output shall increase, to increase fan speed. On an increase in duct static pressure, the output of the controller shall decrease, to decrease fan speed. o A software auto/manual switch function shall enable the operator to override the output of the static pressure controller and adjust fan speed from the operator workstation or DDC controller. • A second static pressure transmitter in the supply fan discharge duct shall act as a high limit safety. o If fan discharge static pressure exceeds its set point, the high limit controller shall, through a software low selector, override the output of the system static pressure controller to proportionally reduce the speed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 471 2023 of its respective supply fan to maintain fan discharge pressure high limit set point. o The controller set point shall be reset such that no terminal unit shall operate at its fully open position to maintain airflow set point. • Static pressure controls shall control system operation during all cycles of operation. • A DDC static pressure software program shall monitor the position of variable air volume terminal unit dampers and shall calculate the quantity of dampers that are less than eighty percent () open. o If the majority of terminal units are less than eighty percent () open, the DDC software controller shall reset the supply fan static pressure set point downward in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at open. If the majority of the dampers are more than ninety percent () open, the program shall reset the set point upwards in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at eighty percent () open. • During system start up, the static pressure control algorithm, integral control mode, shall be suppressed until the control point is within the proportional band of the controller to avoid reset windup. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units g. Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • An airflow measuring station installed upstream of the minimum outside air damper shall measure minimum airflow and transmit this information to the BMS. • Should outside airflow be below set point, the return air damper shall be modulated closed and the spill damper open until the minimum outside airflow is at set point. • Should outside air flow be above set point, the return air damper shall be modulated open and the spill damper closed until the minimum outside air flow is at set point. • If the outside air flow continues to be above set point, the minimum outdoor air damper shall modulate to a preset minimum value. • This program shall be overridden whenever the variable outdoor air damper is open during the economizer mode of operation. • Minimum outdoor air damper shall be modulating type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 472 2023 Mixed air low limit temperature control: • If the mixed air temperature sensor decreases below a mixed air low limit set point of 39°F (adjustable), the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate closed and the return air damper will modulate open. • This function shall override Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units h. Fire Alarm Reset • After a fire alarm shutdown, the system shall automatically restart as long as no safety interlocks require a manual reset. • Unit shall resume operation to maintain last known setpoints prior to fire alarm shutdown. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units i. Flow Control • The unit’s DDC controller shall contain a software based flow control program. The software controller shall receive input signals from airflow measuring stations installed in the inlet of its respective supply and return fan, and totalize, linearize and scale them. • The flow control program shall match the return fan with the supply fan and maintain the volumetric balance between return and supply airflow by varying return fan speed to maintain a constant differential between supply and return airflow. o For flow tracking systems, return fan differential is maintained by a dedicated static pressure transmitter located in the return ductwork. Return static pressure setpoint is calculated based on the desired differential. • A software bias shall be provided to compensate the return flow for an outside air minimum reset, constant toilet exhaust and constant general exhaust at all operating loads. • The operator shall be able to manually override the flow control program and manually control each supply and return fan. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 473 2023 j. Flow Tracking Control • In all flow tracking applications, pressurization control shall take priority over temperature control. • The master terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The master terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. • The supporting terminal unit shall track the exhaust terminal unit to maintain a fixed air volume differential between the room supply and exhaust airflows. • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the master terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. • The flow control system shall respond and maintain specific airflow (± of signal) and stability (< over/undershoot) within 1 second of a change in duct static pressure, irrespective of the magnitude of pressure and/or flow change or quantity of airflow controllers. • The flow control system shall use volumetric offset control to maintain room pressurization. The system shall respond and maintain room pressurization (negative or positive) within 1 second of a change in room/system condition. • The flow control system shall employ highly accurate microprocessor controllers with a minimum 8 to 1 (8:1) turndown to ensure accurate pressurization at low airflows and guarantee the maximum system diversity and energy efficiency. The end to end accuracy of the installed system shall be five percent () over the entire range of the measurement. The master and supporting terminal units are governed by the pressurization requirements as follows: • Negative pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail closed and the exhaust damper shall fail open. • Positive pressurization: the supply terminal unit acts as the master with the exhaust terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 474 2023 • Neutral pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting with an air volume differential of zero (no differential). o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. The following requirements apply to rooms with multiple tracking pairs: • All tracking pairs shall be controlled via a calculated average of all space temperature sensors. • All terminal units must be maintaining their respective minimum flow setpoints prior to operation of any reheat or perimeter heating control valves. The following requirements apply to rooms with fume hoods: • In a room served by a fume hood, there shall be a wall mounted emergency override pushbutton and local alarm light and horn. On activation of the pushbutton, the fume hood exhaust valve shall be positioned to maximum airflow and the general exhaust terminal units shall track accordingly. The alarm horn and light shall be activated. When the pushbutton is reset, the alarm light and horn shall be de energized and the fume hood shall resume normal operation. • The fume hood exhaust valve airflow shall be added to the general exhaust airflow. The supply terminal unit shall track the sum of the general exhaust and fume hood exhaust to maintain a fixed air volume differential. • On an increase in fume hood exhaust airflow, the exhaust terminal unit airflow shall be reduced to maintain the room’s exhaust flow setpoint. k. Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Whenever the primary fan for the terminal unit is off, the terminal unit damper shall be fully open. • The terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. The following requirements apply to terminal units equipped with reheat coils: • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 475 2023 • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. The following requirements apply to multiple terminal units serving a common room: • The average of all space temperature sensors located in the room shall be used to calculate the terminal unit flow setpoint for each terminal unit serving the room. • All terminal units shall be at minimum flow setpoint prior to operating any reheat coil or perimeter radiation control valve. The following requirements apply to fan powered terminal units: • A software interlock shall start the terminal unit fan when the primary fan serving the terminal unit starts. • Start command to the terminal unit fan shall be delayed to allow the terminal unit damper to fully close. When the fan starts, the damper shall be allowed to modulate open. l. Supply Air Temperature Control • Supply air temperature control will be enabled when all of the following conditions are true: o Supply fan status is proven on o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode o When enabled, the cooling valve will modulate to maintain a supply air temperature control set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air temperature control set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation of any of the following for all spaces being served by the system:  Temperature control: Space temperature vs. the space temperature set point (adjustable)  Dehumidification control: Space humidity vs. the humidification set point (adjustable)  Return air reset: in some applications, the supply air temperature set point shall be reset based on return air temperature o The supply air temperature control set point will range from a minimum supply air temperature set point of 45°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air temperature set point of 65°F (adjustable). o As the supply air temperature increases above supply air temperature control set point the cooling coil valve will modulate open. The reverse NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 476 2023 will occur on a decrease below the supply air temperature control set point. • The heating coil control valve will modulate to maintain a preheat supply air temperature control set point (adjustable). o The preheat supply air temperature control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point as described in the Economizer Control functional requirement. o A preheat supply air temperature error set point of 2°F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point. o The reheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). o The supply air temperature set point minus the preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will determine the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o As the preheat air temperature decreases below preheat supply air temperature control set point, the steam heating coil valve will modulate open. The reverse will occur on an increase above the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o Preheat air temperature low limit control shall be operational in this mode as described in the Preheat Coil Low Limit Control functional requirement. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units m. Humidification Control • Humidification control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Supply fan status is proven on (Refer to Humidifier Valve Lockout below). • A supply air dew point control loop will modulate the normally closed humidifier valve to maintain a supply air dew point set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air humidity sensor and the supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air dew point set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation from space humidity to the humidification set point for all spaces being served by the air handling system. o The supply air dew point set point will range from a minimum supply air dew point set point of 30°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air dew point set point of 50°F (adjustable). o The operator at the workstation shall have the ability to override the supply air dew point set point (adjustable) within the minimum supply air dew point set point and maximum supply air dew point set point. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 477 2023 • Humidification control will be overridden and the humidifier valve will modulate closed if the supply air humidity increases above a high limit humidity set point of RH (adjustable) as sensed by the supply air humidity sensor. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units n. Occupied/Unoccupied Control The system shall operate based on a 7 day programmable schedule resident within the DDC controller serving the unit and adjustable at the operator workstation. The operator shall have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the system from the operator workstation or the DDC control unit. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units: o Operator shall also have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the associated return/spill fan o During unoccupied mode, the air handling unit shall not be in operation. The normally closed minimum outdoor air, variable outdoor air, return air, spill air and fan discharge dampers shall be closed. The return/spill fan shall be off. No control signal shall be transmitted to the variable frequency drive of each fan. The normally closed chilled water coil valve shall be closed. Steam humidifier valve shall be closed. o When the air handling unit is off, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return ducts shall be closed. o At the transition to occupied mode, the unit shall start. Prior to starting the air handling unit, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return air ducts shall open. o When the air handling unit start up is initiated, its temperature control system shall be in operation. When the air handling unit is called to start, its supply fan discharge and return air dampers shall open. A hardwired time delay shall prevent fan operation, allowing sufficient time for the dampers to open. When the supply fan and return fan are started, they shall both run at the minimum speed required to maintain rotation. Minimum speed set point shall be coordinated with the variable frequency drive manufacturer. The start of each fan shall be time delayed to avoid simultaneous starting of fans. After the fan has achieved minimum speed, the DDC controller shall ramp up the speed of the supply fan to maintain its operating set point.  When multiple fans are operating in parallel, all associated dampers must open before any single fan starts. Fans must be actively stopped from free rotation (via DC braking or some other means) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 478 2023 prior to start command. Fans must be started together and modulated at the same speeds throughout operation. • Electronic face velocity controller for variable air volume fume hoods: o The system shall operate the fume hoods at a lower velocity set point (when it is safe). • Flow tracking control unit: o The system shall setback air change rate setpoints in unoccupied mode. • Variable air volume terminal units: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Constant air volume flow tracking systems: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. o. Lead/Lag Control • Lead and standby equipment shall be selectable via BMS command. • Lead equipment shall be allowed an Automatic option which will rotate lead unit based on equipment runtime. o At rotation trigger (set via BMS schedule), the piece of equipment with the lowest runtime shall be set to lead. • Equipment shall be monitored for run status. Loss of run status for lead equipment for 30 seconds shall constitute equipment failure. o A failure alarm shall be generated at the BMS. o The standby equipment shall start automatically. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Headered Exhaust Fans • Pump Sets • Cooling Tower Sets • Heat Exchanger Sets o Parallel mode shall also be available, which shall operate all heat exchangers in tandem. • Headered Air Handling Units p. Fume Hood Control • A UL 916 listed individual fume hood monitor shall be provided for each fume hood, which shall measure the average face velocity at the set point NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 479 2023 independently of the sash position. Also, provide sash sensors on each fume hood to indicate the position of all fume hood sashes to the respective fume hood controller. Sash sensors shall provide an input signal to the fume hood controller that is linearly proportional to within one half inch of the actual sash position. All sash sensors shall be highly corrosion resistant and allow easy removal of a fume hood’s sashes for cleaning. Sash sensor operational life shall allow a minimum of one million full sash travel cycles. Multiple sash sensors shall be utilized for combination vertical/horizontal sashes. • The fume hood face velocity controller shall maintain the average fume hood face velocity at the desired setpoint using a proportional, integral and derivative (PID) closed loop control algorithm. The fume hood face velocity control process shall be as follows: • The fume hood controller shall continually determine the fume hood’s total open area by monitoring the fume hood sash position(s) by the sash sensor(s) as well as by taking account of any fume hood fixed open areas and the bypass opening(s). • The fume hood controller shall calculate the required fume hood exhaust airflow necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint over the total open area. • The fume hood controller shall control the fume hood exhaust airflow at the rate necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint. • The fume hood controller shall ensure that the fume hood exhaust required to maintain the average face velocity set point is always maintained independently of any variations in exhaust system static pressure or any laboratory room conditions such as the ventilation airflow or room static pressure that could otherwise affect the fume hood exhaust airflow. The following requirements apply to the fume hood monitor: • The fume hood controller shall also interface to the hood interface module at the designated measurement location on the front of the fume hood. The hood interface module shall provide a continuous digital display of average fume hood face velocity, which shall be the true average face velocity as calculated by the fume hood controller based upon actual measured fume hood exhaust airflow and the total fume hood open area. • The hood interface module shall also sound an audible alarm device in response to face velocity alarm conditions and the hood interface module digital display shall change to “LOW FACE VELOCITY” or “HIGH FACE VELOCITY” appropriate to the alarm condition. A “SILENCE” pushbutton on the hood interface module shall allow the user to silence the audible NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 480 2023 alarm, which shall then remain silent until a subsequent face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an “EMERGENCY PURGE” pushbutton that shall enable a user to increase fume hood exhaust airflow to the maximum amount for a designated period of time as required by Laboratory safety standards. After the designated time has expired, the fume hood exhaust shall automatically reset to a lower level to prevent excessive demand on the exhaust system. The emergency purge mode of operation shall also be able to be canceled at any time by depressing the emergency purge button a second time. The hood interface module shall sound its audible alarm device whenever the emergency purge mode of operation is activated. The silence pushbutton on the hood interface module shall also allow the user to silence the audible alarm, which shall then remain silent until either the emergency purge operational mode is again activated or a face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an audible sash open alert feature that shall caution users whenever the fume hood sash opening exceeds a predetermined amount. The audible alert shall consist of one minute repeating cycle of a series of quick “chirps” that continues until the sash opening is reduced to an allowable amount. In addition, failure of a fume hood sash sensor shall also be indicated as an alarm condition on the hood interface module. • Momentary or extended losses of power shall not change or affect any VAV fume hood control set points, operational parameters or stored data. Upon resumption of power after a power failure, fume hood monitor shall resume full normal operation exactly as before the power failure and without any need for manual intervention. Upon a power failure or operational failure within the fume hood controller, the fume hood exhaust air terminal shall be automatically positioned to the fully open (fail safe) position as required by Laboratory safety standards. q. Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • The space temperature of each room shall be maintained by the supply air terminal unit and reheat coil serving the room. • The shared perimeter radiation valve shall be used to satisfy the room which requires the greatest amount of heating. • If any room requires heating, that room's terminal unit controller shall modulate its reheat coil control valve to maintain space temperature set point. The perimeter radiation control valve shall be allowed to operate in parallel with the reheat coil control valve until any room's space temperature is within 1ºF below its cooling set point, at which time, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate closed regardless of the heating demand of the other rooms. If any room's space temperature drops 1ºF NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 481 2023 below its cooling set point, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate open in parallel with the reheat valve associated with that room. r. Variable Speed Pump Control • Pump speed shall modulate to maintain differential pressure setpoint. • The differential pressure transmitter, used for speed control, shall be located upstream of the furthest connected equipment served by the pump. • On a decrease in differential pressure below setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate higher until reaching full speed. • On an increase in differential pressure above setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate lower until reaching minimum speed. o The pump minimum speed shall be limited to (adjustable) of its design flow rate. • On a further increase in pressure, the differential pressure valve shall modulate open to maintain system differential pressure. s. Exhaust Fan Control • When a fan is off, its intake and discharge dampers shall be closed. o All combination fire/smoke dampers located in associated ductwork shall be closed via hardware interlock with the fan. • When the fan starts, a time delay relay shall prevent the fan from starting until its intake, discharge and combination fire/smoke dampers are fully open. o Proof of open damper position shall be provided via end switch with hardware interlock to fan. • For fans that operate continuously, each fan shall be started by a manual command at the operator workstation. • For fans that function to maintain space temperature, fan shall be started via space temperature. o On sensing a space temperature above set point, the exhaust fan shall start. o On sensing a decrease in space temperature to 5°F below set point, the exhaust fan shall stop. t. Fan Coil Unit Control • Fan coil unit shall be started and stopped through the BMS. o Fan run status shall be monitored at the BMS via a current sensing relay. o On failure of the unit to operate, a fan failure alarm shall be activated at the workstation. • When the fan is off, its chilled and hot water control valves shall be closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 482 2023 • The fan coil unit shall modulate the normally closed chilled and hot water valves in sequence to maintain space temperature setpoint. o On an increase in space temperature above setpoint, the unit shall modulate the hot water valve closed and chilled water valve open. o As the temperature decreases, the reverse shall occur. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. o On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstation. • On sensing a space temperature 5°F above set point, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. On a decrease in space temperature to within ±2°F of set point, the alarm shall be reset. u. Chiller Control • Prior to enabling chiller operation, respective chilled and condenser water pumps shall start and chiller’s condenser and evaporator isolation valves shall be open. o Proof of pump status shall be via current sensing relay. o Proof of isolation valve status shall be via end switch. • When chiller is in operation, its factory furnished OEM controller shall stage compressors to maintain leaving water temperature set point. v. Cooling Tower Control • Tower fan speed shall be modulated to maintain condenser water supply temperature setpoint. • Condenser water setpoint shall be calculated based on the outdoor air wet bulb temperature plus the tower approach temperature. o Adjustable minimum and maximum setpoint limits shall be available. • All active tower cells shall modulate fan speed in parallel. • If all tower cells are off and condenser water temperature is still below setpoint, the bypass valve shall modulate open to maintain setpoint. • All active fans shall be started and held at minimum speed prior to modulating in parallel from minimum to maximum speed. w. Indoor Air Quality Control • Multiple combination CO2 transmitters shall be installed in the space served by the system and monitored via the BMS. • In addition, a CO2 transmitter shall be installed in the unit’s main return air duct and supply air duct. The output of the installed return and space CO2 transmitters shall be monitored by the BMS and compared to the master outdoor air CO2 transmitter. • The BMS shall activate an alarm if any CO2 transmitter reading is 530 ppm (adjustable) above the outdoor air system transmitter reading. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 483 2023 • A DDC software program shall continuously monitor the return and space CO2 transmitters, select the transmitter with the highest reading and calculate a supply air CO2 set point, which shall be used to vary the minimum outdoor airflow set point to maintain a maximum of 530 ppm above the outdoor air system transmitter reading for all return and space CO2 transmitters. • Minimum and maximum airflow set points shall be operator adjustable via the workstation. • The operator shall be capable of enabling/disabling the automatic reset at any time from the workstation. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units x. Demand Response • Heating and cooling setpoints for terminal equipment can be adjusted via global command to respond to a demand event. • Global command shall be initiated by an operator. • Global commands shall be isolated per building and per floor. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Variable air volume terminal units (both flow tracking and non flow tracking) • Fan powered variable air volume terminal units G. Parts i. Instrumentation a. Control Valves General (by Application) • Chilled water valves connected directly to the campus chilled water loop shall be rated for 300 psig working pressure. Valves on the secondary side of a pressure break can be sized based on the working pressure of the secondary system. • AHU and H&V unit hydronic heating & cooling coil valves o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Equal percentage o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Threaded NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 484 2023 o Size >=2 1/2"  Liquid temp. & pressure: <=125psig @<350degF or Steam pressure <=100psig Body: 125 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Steam valves o Whenever the steam flow rate is such as to require a single valve larger than 2 1/2 inches, provide two (2) valves in parallel, arranged to operate in sequence. o Low pressure (15 psig) steam valves shall provide tight closure at a pressure at least 10 psig higher than the normal maximum operating pressure. o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Linear o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged o Size >=2 1/2"  Pressure: <=100psig  Body: 125 pound cast iron  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Combo valve & actuator for terminal unit reheat coils, 2 & 4 pipe fan coil units, perimeter radiation, chilled beams, and radiant panels o Valve shall be suitable for chilled and hot water service o Characteristic: Equal percentage, via characterized disk o Body: Forged Brass o Seat: Fiberglass reinforced Teflon PTFE o Ball & stem: Chrome plated brass NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 485 2023 o Pressure rating:  <=1" valve: 600 psi  >1" valve: 400psi o Temperature range: 0degF 250degF o Leakage rating: ANSI Class IV. o Actuator:  Return type: Spring  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: Closed  Position feedback: Yes • Combo valve & actuator for chilled water minimum flow, modulating condenser water bypass, and inline valve applications o Valve type: Characterized Ball o Body: Carbon steel o Ball: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 316 stainless steel, blowout proof o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Leakage rating: 1/100 of Class IV ANSI/FCI 70 2 o Actuator:  Return type: Fail in place  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: n/a  Position feedback: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  DeZurik V Port Ball  Jamesbury Corp. R21/23 Segmented Vee Ball  Flowtech or Fisher Vee Ball • Butterfly valves o Valve type: High performance butterfly o Characteristic: n/a o Body: Carbon steel o Disk: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 17 4 pH stainless steel one piece o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Seal: Teflon o Pressure rating: Conform to application requirements o Connection: Lug o Leakage rating: Valves shall be capable of bubble tight double dead end closure with either upstream or downstream flange removed through the valves’ full rated pressure. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 486 2023 o Travel stops: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  Jamesbury Corp.  Bray  Keystone K LOK Figures 362 or 372 Execution • All threaded valves to be installed with unions. b. Gas Instruments • Carbon Dioxide Combo Sensor & Transmitter by Application: Wall Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. o Unit shall consist of a single wall mounted assembly designed for direct wall mounting or mounting on a standard junction box. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMW90 • Execution o Mount 3' and 6' above finished floor. Duct Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMD20 • O2 Monitoring System Serving MRI Equipment Rooms & MRI Rooms General • System to include a 4 20mA analog output. • Oxygen monitoring system shall be a sample draw monitoring system that alerts and alarms when oxygen levels fall below safe limits for human health. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 487 2023 Product • Manufacturer: ETS Lindgren • Model: OMS • Sample tube shall be made of transparent polyurethane 1/4" (7 mm) in diameter. Execution • Wall mount, using wall mount accessory and polycarbonate case with wall mounting accessory. • Configure two alarms as follows: • User selectable relay contacts • Fault relay for interface with the DDC system. • Tube end shall be positioned near the ceiling of the space being monitored. c. Flow Instruments • Airflow Measuring Stations by Application: Fan Inlet Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application requires the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Transmitter shall be selected based on a span from 0 cfm to upper end of the cfm range plus . • Products o Probe manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation VOLU probe/FI Pitot o Transmitter manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus Outdoor Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application may require the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Probes shall not create a pressure drop in the airstream • Products o Manufactures and models accepted  Accutrol Model IAQ Tek  Air Monitor Corporation Model OAM II  Air Monitor Corporation Model VOLU probe and VOLU probe/VS w/ Air Monitor Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus • Thermal Flow Switch NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 488 2023 d. Moisture Instruments • Relative Humidity Sensor & Transmitters Combos Product (by Application) • Duct mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMW90 Series • Space mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMD60 Series Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Point Type Leak Detectors Product • Manufacturer: Liebert • Model: LT 410 Execution • Sensing probes shall be adjusted to 1/8" above the floor. • Placement of the sensing probes must consider the installed floor slope so as to detect a leak from the anticipated source(s). • Zone Type Leak Detectors General • Select cable length to provide adequate coverage per manufacturer's recommendations. Product • Manufacturer: Liebert • Model: LT 460 Z## Execution • Install cable in a perimeter or serpentine configuration to capture leak originating from any location in or above zone NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 489 2023 e. Pressure Instruments • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Air) by Application: Static Pressure in Ducts Flow tracking terminal units (Supply, Exhaust, Fume Hood VAVs) • General o Size for unidirectional pressure range rating of at least 150 expected maximum nominal operating pressure. E.g. For VAV pitot sensors nominally 0 1 in WC DP, select a 0 2 in WC range. o Select Accuracy class based on criticality and operating tolerance of the application. o Output: 4 20mA • Product o Manufacturer & model: Ashcroft CLXdp • Static Pressure Probes (Air) by Application: Duct static pressure probes • General o Duct static pressure measurement requires two probes, one for the measurement in the duct, specified below, and one for reference measurement. Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that minimizes effects of air disturbances to maintain a stable reference pressure. • Products o Manufacturer & model: Kele A 301K or A 302 K • Execution o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. o Probe penetration into duct must be sealed to prevent air leakage. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 490 2023 • Pressure Sensors & Transmitters By Application Duct static pressure sensors & transmitters • General o Duct static pressure sensor & transmitter assemblies shall consist of a static pressure probe, transmitter and electrical box for wiring connections. o The static pressure probe shall extend across the width of the duct. o Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that shall minimize effects of air disturbances and maintain a steady, uniform reference pressure. o Transmitter range shall be selected to ensure that the normal set point is in the center of the device range. • Products o Probe Manufacturer & model: ? o Transducer Manufacturer & model: Setra Model 264 • Execution o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Water/Glycol) General • Signal output shall be selected for 4 20mA • Transmitter shall be enclosed in a gasketed, dust free and water tight housing. • Any enclosure exposed to the process fluid shall be equipped with drain ports at the bottom and vent ports at the top with a minimum 1/4' 18 NPT • Process fluid connection to transmitter shall be provided with a 3 valve manifold Product • Transmitter make/model: Rosemount Model 2051C • Manifold make/model: Anderson Greenwood & Co. Model MDP • Differential Pressure Switches (Air) General • High and low sensing ports shall be ferrule and nut compression for 1/4 in OD tubing. • All switches shall be automatic reset type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 491 2023 • Switch shall be provided with SPST NC contacts rated for 15A, 125 277 VAC. Product • Manufacturer: Cleveland Controls • Model: AFS Series • Room Pressure Monitors General • Room pressure monitor shall include a bidirectional pressure sensor and wall mounted digital interface module. Room pressure monitoring shall utilize differential pressure sensing technology to display the respective room’s differential pressure with reference to the entrance corridor. o Differential pressure transmitter accuracy shall be ± of reading (± 0.00001 in. H20) and shall be bidirectional. • Monitors shall be provided with door sensors to disable alarms if the door is open. o Provide a door position switch for each door serving the room, wired in series. • Room pressure monitor shall be designed to provide room pressure operating and alarm status, alarm indication and acknowledgment functions. Alarm set points and time delays, prior to alarming, shall be programmable. Once the alarm condition ceases to exist, the alarm and mute functions are reset automatically. • Status indicators shall be green for normal and red for alarm. Room pressure monitoring shall include audible alarm. • Monitor shall be provided with a silence pushbutton to deactivate the alarm horn during an alarm condition. Product • The following manufacturer product lines are acceptable. Match the manufacturer to existing adjacent spaces. o Critical Room Control o TSI Pressura o Setra Flex Execution • Room pressure monitor shall be located outside of room served at entrance door. • Provide a local alarm light, horn and silence switch located within the room served. Horn and light shall be activated if a door is maintained in the open position for a continuous 3 minute time period. Silence switch shall allow the user to silence the horn; however, the light shall remain energized until the door is closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 492 2023 • If project has multiple rooms requiring pressure monitoring, monitoring shall be capable from one monitor. Multiple room monitoring only applies to auxiliary rooms not separate rooms or Operating Rooms/OR support spaces. f. Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensors General • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be 1/10th DIN RTDs Product • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be manufactured by o ACI o BAPI Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Combos by Application: Duct mounted averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of duct area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 493 2023 o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Preheat coil discharge sensors • General o Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Duct mounted non averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 18" or half the width of the duct o A NEMA 3R electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K 2W D 18 Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 494 2023 Liquid insertion type • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Mount sensor in a thermowell with #" #" gap between the end of the sensor and the end of the thermowell. The void between the two shall be filled with thermal grease. • Freezestats General • Low Air Temperature Thermostats for Air (freezestats) shall be sized to provide complete coil coverage as defined below to ensure each coil has one or more dedicated switches and no two coils share a temperature switch. o The coil area must be covered by freezestats leaving 6 inches from each edge of the coil. o The maximum vertical distance between each pass of capillary shall be no more than 8 inches. o Switch actuation shall occur if any 12 inch length of capillary senses a temperature below set point. o Capillary length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. o If capillary is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o If multiple freezestats are provided, each device shall only cover its percentage of coil. For example, if there are two (2) freezestats, each covers . If there are four (4) thermostats, each covers . Product • These thermostats shall be 2 position automatic reset type. Execution • Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. • Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. • Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. • Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Low temperature shutdowns shall be manually reset via operator command from a workstation. • The elements shall be suspended at least 6 to 8 inches downstream of the preheat coils. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 495 2023 • Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Thermowells Immersion temperature measurement • All thermowells shall be type 304 stainless steel • 3/4" NPT external thread, 1/2" NPT internal thread • Lagging extension shall be equal to insulation thickness • Insertion length shall be 1/3 to 3/4 of internal pipe diameter, but not more than 6" • Thermowells shall be rated for maximum system pressure, temperature and fluid velocity. • Internal bore of thermowells shall be sized to exactly fit the diameter of the sensing element to be installed. g. Weather Stations General • For use with cooling tower or economizer control. • Provide detail on ordering instructions to specify desired customized outputs to BAS. Product • Manufacturer: Viasala • Model No.: HMS110 Execution • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. h. Actuators General (by application) • Valve Actuators o All two position actuators shall be provided with open and closed limit switches for remote monitoring at the BMS. o Actuators shall be factory mounted to valve body and factory tested to ensure proper operation. o Actuators shall be provided with manually operated declutchable handwheels for overriding the actuator in both emergency and normal operation. o Actuator shall be provided with an external position indicator. o Tandem mounted actuators are not acceptable. o Actuators, limit switches, manual override handwheels, position indicators, etc., that are located outdoors shall be constructed for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 496 2023 outdoor use. All electrical devices shall be weatherproof and NEMA 4 rated. All exposed valve components (i.e., stem, shaft, gear operators, handwheel, etc.) shall be constructed of non rusting metal or factory coated with rust inhibiting paint. • Damper actuators serving automatic louver dampers o Tandem mounted actuators shall not be provided o Housing shall be NEMA 2 o Manual override shall be provided o Include external direction of rotation switch o Ambient temperature operation shall be 22°F to 122°F o Storage temperature shall be 40°F to 176°F o Actuators shall be UL listed o Two Position  Actuators in two position (open/closed) service shall be 120 VAC electrically actuated spring return type. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. o Modulating  All automatic louvered damper actuators in modulating service shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC electrically actuated spring return type, and shall be fully proportioning, unless otherwise specified. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. Product • Valve Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Bray, limitorque, EIM • Louvered Damper Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Belimo • Control Valve Actuators Preheat coil • Return: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal Position: Open Steam to or water to water heat exchanger • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 497 2023 Chilled water coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed Reheat coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed i. Current Instruments • Current Sensing Switches General • Switches shall have field adjustable sensitivity for detecting AC current levels. • Relay contacts shall be Form C rated for 5A at 120VAC Execution • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. j. Signal Transducers i. Relays Time Delay Relay • General o Time delay trigger and function shall be specified to meet the application requirements. • Product o Manufacturer: Magnecraft o Model: TDR Plug In Terminal (Ice Cube) • General o Relays shall be plug in terminal type with a DPDT configuration o Contact material shall be silver cadmium oxide • Product o Manufacturer: Idec o Model: RH Series NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 498 2023 • Execution o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. Self Enclosed Relay (Relay in Box) ii. Networks a. Network Hardware • Switches General • Quantity of 10 gigabit ports is required • A minimum of 24 ethernet ports is required. For large buildings, 48 ports is preferred. • Switch must include redundant hot swappable power supplies Approved Products • Manufacturer: Juniper o Model:EX 2300 or EX 3400 • Manufacturer: Netgear o Model: Netgear Pro Series • Manufacturer: Blackbox o Model: Gigabit Managed LG8 Series • Manufacturer: Cisco o Model: Catalyst 9500 • Routers General • BACnet router between MS/TP and B/IP (BACnet over IP) as well as a BBMD (BACnet Broadcast Management Device) for transportation of BACnet broadcasts over an IP network with several subnets. • Routers shall comply with the latest version of ASHRAE Standard 135 for communications. • Routers shall be UL864 listed when connected to BACnet MS/TP network segments that contain UL864 listed devices being used in a smoke control application. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 499 2023 • Device shall be capable of routing BACnet packets over Layer 3 IP network and shall support both the router and BBMD networking options. BBMD shall support registration of Foreign Devices. • Devices shall be password protected with additional security settings. iii. Piping & Panels a. Panel Enclosure General • The enclosure shall be made of steel or extruded aluminum with proper bracing for rigid wall or floor mounting. The enclosure shall not be attached to any piece of building equipment. All associated controller equipment shall be mounted in this enclosure such as controllers, power supplies, relays, switches, etc. • Hinged door shall contain a key operated lock. Lock shall be a cam style, in order for all the cores to be accessed via a master key. • Enclosures shall have a removable perforated backplane where all devices, din rail, and Panduit shall be secured and mounted. Product • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. • Accepted panel manufacturers: o Unity o Hoffman o Hammond Execution • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. b. Terminal Block General • All control panels shall be provided with a terminal strip for field wiring Product • Terminal blocks shall be 300 volt rated, medium duty, channel mounted, with numbered marking strips. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 500 2023 c. Labeling General • Provide an engraved nameplate for each enclosure, mounted on the face of the door, indicating the controller tag, device instance, system served and branch circuit number and electrical panel tag from which the enclosure is fed. • The control panel has to be labeled for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to be labeled. All labeling of controller devices, controllers, transformers, relays, wire, tags, etc. shall match labeling on approved as built drawings • Each control device (IE. Relays, fuses, etc.) mounted within enclosure shall be marked with a nameplate cross referencing it to the control diagram. • Wiring shall have identification sleeves at each termination at the terminal strip individually identified per control/interlock drawings, with adequate clearance for field wiring. d. Panels General • Enclosures shall be provided with space for future addition of instruments. Fully loaded enclosures shall not be acceptable. Enclosures shall be oversized by . • Separate terminal blocks shall be installed for 120 volt AC wiring and for low level signal wiring within enclosures. Terminal blocks for line voltage wiring shall be separated from low level signal wiring by a barrier partition. • Each enclosure shall be provided with a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door, which shall be used to contain “as built” control diagrams serving the respective system. Plastic sleeve to contain controller directory indicating all input and output points labeled as per “as built” drawings. • Provide a 120 volt, 60 hertz duplex convenience outlet within each enclosure. Convenience outlet shall be provided with dedicated circuit breaker protection 5 Amp max. Execution • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 501 2023 • All wiring shall be contained neatly within plastic panduit. o Low voltage and line voltage wiring shall be routed through separate panduits. • Enclosure shall be provided with all required transformers and a main circuit breaker to disconnect all power serving the enclosure. • All transformers shall be mounted within an enclosure. Transformers will not be permitted to be installed out of enclosures. • For pressure switch alarms, provide a manual reset pushbutton switch with indicating light mounted on the face of the enclosure door. o Pushbutton shall allow an operator to reset a pressure alarm. The system shall remain off until manually reset via the pushbutton. a. Control Panel All materials used for the control panel must be UL listed and wired up under the standards of the National Electrical Code. The BMS subcontractor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers, power supplies, transformers, relays, terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. See figure CPL 01 for references. If the control panel has an external power source, see Figure CPL 04 as a reference. The Control Panel must consider the following points: • Circuit Breaker (CB) The control panel must have a main circuit breaker (CB) whose label will be: CB MP. This CB must be selected according to the total load that will be used in the control panel; see figure CPL 01A for a power diagram. • Power Supply (PS) If power supplies are used to feed 24 VDC to the controllers, the power supply must have a circuit breaker in the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrent. See Figure CPL 01A for the power diagram. • Transformers (TX) Each 120 / 24 VAC transformer used in the control panel must have a circuit breaker in both the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrents. See Figure CPL 01A for a power diagram. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 502 2023 • Single Terminal and double level terminal block i. Single terminal block Use single terminal blocks for the 120 VAC main power supply connections to the control panel as well as the low voltage connections after the power supply and transformers. See Figure CPL 02 for details of the terminal block and circuit breakers for 120 VAC (TB P1) and for low voltage 24 VAC and 24 VDC (TB P2), and Figure CPL 1A for a wire diagram reference. ii. Double level terminal block Inputs and Outputs: All the signals from the field devices must be connected to these terminals. There should be a strip of double level terminal blocks for inputs and a strip of double level terminal blocks for the output signal for the field. See Figure CPL 03 TB 01 as references. The top level has an odd number for a positive signal, and the bottom level has an even number for a negative signal. Field Power devices: A double level terminal block strip; check terminal block TB FPW shown in figure CPL 03 to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimal of two double terminal block for 24VAC (T3) blue color and two double terminal block for COM (T4) yellow color. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 503 2023 • Layout Spaces The control panel has to consider the following table for the minimum and maximum space to install the DIN rail that holds the terminal block strip, circuit breaker, control relays, and controllers, as shown in figure CPL 01 as a reference. Reference InchMIN MAXA55.5B56C12D12E55.5 • Labels The control panel has to have labels for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to have wire labels. • Wire duct The control panel layout drawing has to indicate the width and height of the wire duct (Panduit), as shown on Figure CPL 01 as a reference. The wire duct has to be selected according to the manufacturer's recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 504 2023 Figure: CPL 01 Reference InchMIN MAX A 5 5.5 B 5 6 C12D 1 2 E55.5 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 505 2023 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 506 2023 Figure: CPL 02 Figure: CPL 03 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 507 2023 Figure: CPL 4 Reference InchMIN MAX B 5 6 E 5 5.5 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 508 2023 iv. Power Systems & Equipment (AHU's, Chillers, etc.) fed from emergency power sources shall have their associated DDC controllers and DDC devices fed from the same emergency source. All control power, 24V or otherwise, shall be protected with a line filter, surge suppressor, electrical breaker, and control fuse (last two need discussion). a. Control Transformer General • Transformer shall be sized as follows for optimal performance and overheat issues. o Control Panels: Total VA of all controllers in the panel on the same power loop x 1.5 = Transformer size o Controllers with actuator: Total VA of all controllers and actuators on the same power loop x2 or x3 based on total devices = Transformer size Product • Manufacturer: Functional Devices, Inc. • Models: o 50VA Part No.: TR50VA005US o 75VA Part No.: TR75VA005 o 100VA Part No.: TR100VA005 b. Uninterruptible Power Supply for Network Hardware General • The UPS shall be monitored at the nearest network switch via an IP network wire in conduit. Product • Manufacturer: Schneider APC • Model: SUA500PDRI H Execution • Ensure UPS is wired as per manufacturer's specifications. v. Wire General • All wiring to be in accordance with manufacturer requirements, local and national electric codes, and latest NYC Building Code. • Cables for 120/24 VAC wiring, communications wiring and low level signal wiring (i.e., 4 20ma, 0 10v) shall always be run in separate raceways. • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be plenum rated cable. • All wiring in Mechanical Equipment Rooms, communications or electrical closets shall be in approved raceway (conduit, EMT, etc.). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 509 2023 • Wiring within inaccessible ceilings shall be installed in conduit. • Wiring within drywall cavities or enclosure or beneath raised floor construction shall be in conduit. • The supporting of wiring from other equipment, mechanical ductwork or piping shall not be acceptable. Provide individual supports for conduit and free air plenum cable. • No 300 volt insulated (rated) wiring shall terminate within or occupy any enclosure containing conductors operating at a voltage greater than 300 volts. This particularly applies to any analog or digital I/O wiring entering 460 volt motor starter enclosures or motor control centers. • Wire jacket colors shall comply with the Wire Jacket Color Requirements. • Wire jacket/insulation must be compatible with duct seal putty. • BMS conduit color labelling shall be Orange background with Black lettering BMSBlack on OrangeTEXT Products • See subsections for product requirements Execution • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be bundled together and protected from mechanical damage. • Wiring shall be independently supported from the building structure with bridal rings and clips. • All control wiring internal to the panel shall be wired from the I/O of the controller to the terminal strip. Under no circumstance will field wiring be terminated from inputs or outputs directly to the controllers. • Terminations shall be mechanically and electrically secure. Twist type wire nuts shall not be acceptable. Insulated tinned copper lugs shall be provided. • Perform continuity and point to point testing for all wiring installed. • Wire stripping and terminations shall follow the correct installation procedure as shown below: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 510 2023 a. Analog & Digital Signal Wire General • Wire jacket/insulation shall be compatible with duct seal putty. Product • 3 Conductor Shielded o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 2335# the last digit(s) indicates the color • 2 Conductor Shielded o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 232# the last digit(s) indicates the color b. IP Network Wire General • All CAT 6 cable runs shall not exceed 100 meters in length. Product • Manufacturer: Belden • Model: 7882A D151000 c. Non IP Network Wire General • This section applies to cabling used in the following applications o ARC156 o MS/TP Networks o Modbus RTU Product • Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. • Model: 043006AL S d. Power Wire See NYU Langone Health Electrical Design Guidelines for power wire requirements at voltages equal to and above 120 Volts. e. Wire Labels & Labeling General • All wires terminating at each field device, terminal box, field equipment cabinet, DDC control unit, or any other terminals shall be identified by labels. • Identification shall be consistent with the tagging indicated on the approved shop drawings. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 511 2023 • All communication wiring shall be tagged with the previous and post devices on the network. • The same identification code shall be carried through from the field device to the final termination point. Product • Brady clip sleeve type non metallic wire markers or equivalent. Execution • After identification is complete, the wire markers shall be anchored using a single layer of non yellowing clear Mylar tape. H. Smarts i. Alarms General Requirements: • All digital input points shall be alarmed on change of state from normal state. Include a 60 second time delay on make unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • All analog input points shall be alarmed. Provide adjustable deadband to prevent nuisance alarms. Include a 300 second time delay on make and appropriate deadband unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • Nuisance alarms (i.e., repeating alarms) will be corrected during warranty period. Nuisance alarms are considered alarms that repeat due to poorly configured alarms or if smart alarms are not installed and cause unnecessary lower tier alarms. • All systems that are capable of automatic restart after a shutdown/alarm condition shall be able to have remote alarm clearing and acknowledgement ability through the BMS. Local clearing of alarms shall only be necessary with systems that can only be reset locally. • For projects on the Manhattan Main Campus and Long Island Main Campus, alarming shall be integrated in to Virtual Facility Alarm Triage. Smart Alarming: • Smart alarming feature shall be implemented when an equipment failure will trigger multiple secondary alarms causing unnecessary data transmission and operator alarm acknowledgement. Smart alarming shall be utilized to prevent unnecessary alarming of points. • Smart alarms shall be implemented for the following systems: o Air handling units o Chilled, condenser and hot water systems o Secondary water systems o Rooms that are monitored via door contacts and room pressure monitors o The following are some examples:  Air Handling Unit Run Failure NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 512 2023 On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on or air handling unit shut down due to a safety device, or if an air handling unit is off, provide a software program which shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and humidity sensor associated with the air handling unit. On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on, an alarm should trigger for the fan status loss, but no pressure sensor alarm or supply air temperature alarm or normal room temperature alarms. On failure of an air handling unit with more than one (1) fan, one (1) alarm shall generated for failure. All individual fan fail alarm will disabled. All VAV boxes or other terminal units reliant on airflow from the AHU will have their alarms disabled upon air handling unit failure to run or has not proven status. All safety devices (pressure switches and freezestats) shall remain active and capable of alarming. In general, space temperature alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall be disabled. However, extreme room temperatures or freezing preheat temperatures should annunciate (Note: There may be critical rooms such as cold rooms which will continue to be monitored for alarm.) All space pressurization alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall continue to be monitored for alarm. Upon a smart alarm activation, the alarm message must read that this is a smart alarm and some alarms have been suppressed. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Secondary Water System Failure On failure of all pumps associated with a secondary water system, provide a software program that shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and flow sensor associated with the water system. All alarms associated with equipment that is disabled (i.e., off) shall be inhibited from operating. When a piece of equipment is off, all alarms associated with the equipment, as well as alarms associated with areas served by the equipment or secondary equipment served, shall be disabled. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 513 2023  Filter Alarm All filters shall be provided with a differential pressure transmitter that shall be monitored at the BMS. Dirty filter alarms shall be generated when the differential pressure across the filter has exceeded setpoint (adj.). Filter alarms based off runtime are not acceptable. Alarm Parameters: • Alarm parameters shall be structured as follows: AlarmDelay on Make (seconds) Delay on Break (seconds) Multiple Fan Array Fail Individual360060Multiple Fan Array Fail Unit3000Single Office Fan Fail6000Single Lab Fan Failure3000Single Critical Fan Failure600Pump Failure600Fan/Pump VFD Common Alarm1800600Fan Filter846003600Fan Temperature 60060Fan/Pump Pressure (Static/DP)30060Fan AirFlow72003600VAV Room Temperature60060VAV AirFlow3600600Leak Detector6010Freeze Detector6010 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 514 2023 Alarm Syntax: • Alarm syntax shall be structured as follows: o Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm, Contact Shop o Example: **** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm Contact Energy Shop • Return to Normal syntax shall be structured as follows: o Return to Normal (Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm) o Example: Return to Normal (**** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm) • Priority Designation: o ***** 5 Star Alarms:  Animal Facility/Vivarium Related Alarms  Animal Facility/Vivarium Fan failures, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Labs ABSL 3 Fan Failures, Space Temp/Humidity, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Fan Failures Affecting Operating Room, Isolation Rooms, Protective Environment Rooms (Fans include air handling unit supply, return, and exhaust fans)  Emergency Power Related Alarms  Medical Air System Alarms  Compressed Air Systems  Procedure Rooms Alarms  Data Center Alarms o **** 4 Star Alarms:  OR Temperature and Humidity Alarms  OR Fan System Failures  OR Reheat System Alarms  Sump Pit Overflow Alarms  Ejector Pit Overflow Alarms o *** 3 Star Alarms:  Vacuum System Alarms  General Reheat and Perimeter Space Alarms  General Lab Fan Failure Alarms  Sump Pit Alarms  Ejector Pit Alarms  Walk In Box Alarms o ** 2 Star Alarms:  Office Fan Failure Alarms  General Lab Temperature and Humidity Alarms  General Lab Airflow Alarm o Non Critical Alarms:  Office Temperature and Humidity Alarms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 515 2023 • Critical vs. Non Critical: o The designation “Critical” shall be included in the alarm syntax only for 2, 3, 4, and 5 star alarms. For all other alarms not listed above, the designation “Non Critical” shall be used. • Building Abbreviations (for NYULH Main Campus): o Alumni Hall ALH o Berg BRG o Coles Student Laboratory Coles o Energy Building EB o Greenberg Hall GBH o Medical Science Building MSB o Millhauser Mil o Tisch Hospital TH o Schwartz Health Care Center HCC o Science Building SB o Skirball Institute Skirball o Smilow Research Center SRC o Kimmel Pavilion KP • Floor: o Identify floor where alarm is active (e.g., 2nd Floor, Lobby, roof) • System: o Utilize equipment tag or designation (e.g., AC3 7, AHU TH 18 1, Walk In Box Room 225, Filtration Water Holding Tank) • Alarm: o Identify actual device in alarm (e.g., Cooling Tower Trip Alarm, Fan Failure Alarm, Common Alarm, High Humidity Alarm). • Contact Shop: o Energy Shop  All BMS Related Communication Alarms and Outages  All BMS AHU, VAV, HW System Alarms (Energy to Reassign Post Control Signal Confirmation/Verification)  All BMS AHU Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop)  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop) o HVAC Shop  All CHW FCU Related Alarms  All Pneumatic Related Alarms  All HVAC (AHU, FCU) Filter Related Alarms  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  All Low and Medium Steam Pressure Alarms, including HW System DP Alarms  All AHU Related Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  Building Engineers  All CHW Plant Related Alarms Building to reassign these alarms when applicable  All Fire System Alarms  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 516 2023  All High Steam Pressure Alarms  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Plumbing Shop is Primary) o Plumbing Shop  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Pump Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Medical Air System Alarms o House Electricians  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Power Related Alarms o Refrigeration Shop  All DX AC/AHU related Alarms, including DX FCU’s  All Walk In Box Alarms  Refrigeration system cooling towers o Note: The term “dual assignment” means two (2) “shops” are assigned to these alarms. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Nursing • The BMS shall automatically generate alarms, via e mail to IPC and Nursing based on operating room humidity levels and pressurization level. E mail addresses shall be provided by the Facility Management Team. • Operating Room Humidity Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a humidity level either below RH or above RH, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. o If the humidity level continues to remain either below RH or above RH for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an email alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Operating Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. Note: Entrance door must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Protective Environment Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Isolation Room, Central Sterilizer, Bone Marrow, Air Locks, Vestibules, BSL3 Labs, etc.) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. The respective NYULH shop will be required to respond within 30 minutes. Note: Each door serving the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 517 2023 room must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. ii. Trends General Requirements: • Trends shall be established for each hardwired and software generated point associated with a system. For each project, trends shall be identified as critical or non critical trends by the Facility Management Team. Trend Point Collection: • Each trended point shall be supported by collection point hardware capable of storing a minimum quantity of trend samples for each point before any samples are overwritten. Where controllers do not have this capability due to either the number of trended points or inability to store trends, provide additional controllers to provide the required trend storage and memory capabilities. • Transmission between the point of collection device (DDC controller) and the trend storage device is critical. Each trend shall have its buffer size (the value at which the controllers sends its stored trend data to the collection software) set to a value equal to the smaller of either four (4) times the trend rate (i.e., the amount of samples per hour) or a maximum quantity of samples which. Under no circumstances shall the buffer value be set to more than the maximum quantity of samples. • Each time the buffer reaches its sample limit, the entire volume of software samples stored in the controller shall be sent. The collection software shall review the data and eliminate duplicate values (i.e., previous values already sent which have been successfully received at the collection software). • Critical trends shall have a software routine included (separate from the “standard” trending software) that regularly monitors the trend data and alerts the user when expected trend data has not been received. For each trend, provide a software routine that shall monitor the last received trend point’s time stamp and identify when it has “aged” sufficiently to generate an alarm. Aging limit shall be exceeded when the last data point in the trend has a time stamp which is greater than two (2) times the value of the buffer size divided by the trend rate. This software routine cannot reside in the DDC controller which is the collection device for this data set. Analog Trend Points: • The following analog type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval or change of value passed a percentage of the sensor’s maximum value: o Space temperature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 518 2023  Non critical space: 5 minute interval as standard  Critical space: Change of value every 1 °F or 0.5°C o Space differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint (e.g. record COV every 0.05 in. change of a space with a 1 in. setpoint) o Air handling unit supply, return, mixed air and preheat coil discharge air temperature o Change of value every of setpointAir handling unit supply and return air humidity  Change of value every of maximum value (rh) o Air handling unit supply, return and outdoor airflow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Duct static pressures  Change of value every % of setpoint o Water temperatures  Change of value every of setpoint o Water systems differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint o Water flow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Btu meters (5 minutes as standard) o Set points, associated process variables and control signals (Note: sample rate based on variables listed above) o UPS voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o PDU voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o Distribution board voltage per phase, current per phase, kW output Digital Trend Points: • The following digital type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval: o Run status (e.g., pump, fan, air conditioning unit, chiller, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Safety device (e.g., pressure switch, freezestat, leak detector, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Dry contact input from third party equipment such as packaged air conditioning unit common alarm contact (10 minutes as standard) o Door contact associated with room pressure monitors (10 minutes as standard) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 519 2023 Controller Data Trend Points: • The following status/data points shall be trended based on change of state: o Controller online/offline status o Controller reboot iii. Instrumentation a. Actuator Engineering Valve Actuators • Hydronic control valve actuators shall be sized to close against a differential pressure equal to the design pump head plus . • Actuators shall be sized based on valve operating torque values and safety factors stated by the valve manufacturer as well as the maximum torque developed during the stroke of the valve when operating under maximum working conditions. Actuators shall be of sufficient torque to smoothly position valve disk to maintain specified leakage classification. Louvered Damper Actuators • Actuator mounting arrangement shall be outside the airstream. • Wherever possible, actuators shall be direct coupled type, which require no crank arm and linkage, and shall be capable of direct mounting to a jackshaft. In applications where it is not feasible to direct mount couple actuators to damper shaft or jackshaft, provide a substantial (strong) linkage between the actuator and damper. • Actuator linkage arrangement shall be such as to permit normally open or normally closed positions of the dampers as required. • Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 520 2023 b. Control Valve Engineering • Control valves shall be sized using the following basic formulas: c. Temperature Sensor Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. • Manufacturer’s standard thermistor temperature sensing elements are only acceptable for use serving space temperature monitoring of VAV terminal units. • The use of thermistors shall not be acceptable for other air and water applications. iv. Networks a. RS 485 Networks • Communication loops shall always be daisy chained in a line topology and shall not be T tapped or spliced in anyway • Unique MAC address and Device ID for each controller on the network. • A repeater after every 31 devices or after 2000 feet (whichever is reached first), and at each brand of a network comprised of multiple manufacturers/product types NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 521 2023 • Have one of the following in order to prevent signal distortions due to echoing and add bias: o A BT485 biasing terminator at each end (unless the segment is less than 10 feet long) o A ½ watt, 120 ohm terminator at each end v. Network Hierarchy General • The system architecture shall consist of a network of independent, stand alone direct BACnet I/P based digital control units and BACnet MSTP unitary controllers communicating over a two tier local area network. Each control unit shall perform all specified control functions independently, including scheduling, alarming and storage of trend data. Failure of one (1) control unit shall have no effect upon any other unit in the network. • Each direct digital control unit shall communicate with each other and with the existing servers. The DDC units, servers and workstations shall interface to the main communication network via multiple multi port managed communication switches. • To minimize network traffic and promote network health, point mapping shall be conducted as follows: o All direct mapping of networked points shall be through a main control router/global controller. o Direct peer to peer point mapping from controller to controller shall only be accepted if:  Controllers are on the same network bus.  No control router is present between controllers. o Outside Air point mapping: The outside air network points shall be pushed out (broadcast out) to all controllers with programming referencing these points. Locally Separated BMS Local Area Network (LAN) • BMS network shall be independent and isolated from MCIT WAN with one physical connection via CAT6/Ethernet. This connection will between an approved NYULH BMS LAN switch and MCIT switch. • Critical campus network topology shall be utilized for hospital infrastructure and Article 28 compliance spaces (e.g. operating, procedure, vivarium, Bio Safety Labs). This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • Midsize campus network topology shall be utilized for clinical practice and laboratory infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • General campus network topology shall be utilized for office and residential infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 522 2023 • Approved NYULH core, distribution and access switch shall only be used. All switches shall have of their ports unused at the completion of the project. For an interim measure in the event of network switch failure, an approved unmanaged switch shall be installed until faulty switch is in kind replaced by the BMS vendor. BMS network architecture and connection to MCIT shall be approved by the Facilities Management Team before procurement. See "Existing System Architecture Diagrams" section in References for topology diagrams referenced above. vi. Network Protocols • Communication protocol between servers, workstations, DDC and unitary controllers shall utilize ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet. No manufacturer variations to ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet published communication protocol standards and rules will be accepted. Each BACnet communication alarm and subscription services shall be configured as Confirmed service or Unicast transmission. • For MS/TP communication efficiency, the following requirement must be adhered to: o All Devices must have a unique MAC ID and Device Instance. o All Software device instance are unique on the entire network. o Baud Rate must be the same of all devices including repeaters for given MS/TP trunk. o COV (Change of Value) Increment shall be set on ALL Analog Input and Value parameters with a number no less than 1. o Max Master on ALL Global Controllers shall be set according to Highest Node on MS/TP network trunk + 3. o EOL (End of Line) terminators shall be places on each end of a MS/TP trunk. Terminators resistance shall be determined by the BMS vendor recommended standard. No intermediate device shall have an EOL. o Voltage Polarity of RS 485 communication cable shall confirmed before adding additional controllers/devices. o MS/TP total length of twisted pair communication cable shall be less than 4000 ft. with 18 AWG, less than 2000 ft. with 22 AWG o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as 24 VAC power o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as conductors driven by Binary Outputs. o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run near electrical motors and only inside VFD plastic enclosures o Separate MS/TP communication loops shall be utilized for different equipment manufacturers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 523 2023 vii. Integrations General • OEM equipment identified below shall be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP; however, the BMS is capable of communicating via other industry standard protocols such as Modbus. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the equipment, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. o Equipment provider will be responsible for equipment start up and to verify that communication to BMS is established and functional. The BATC Contractor must participate with the start up to ensure proper communications. o On completion of the interface, the interface shall be demonstrated to the NYULH Facility Management Team and issues identified after start up demonstration will require corrective action by the responsible party. Equipment • At a minimum, the following equipment shall be interfaced with the BMS: o Electric meters o Variable frequency drives o Packaged air conditioning units o Chillers o Room pressure monitors Metering • Metering shall be provided at the service entrance of each utility to each building. • Hard Wired Interface: o Mass flow (all non electric meters) o BTU (energy meters only) • Utility meters shall only use Modbus TCP protocol for integration. • Utility Metering will be Bi Directional meters and shall be set up with positive values for exporting, and negative values for importing. o At Manhattan Main campus the meter data shall be pulled into Blue Pillar system. • Meters shall be integrated to the BMS when utilized for control, regardless of whether or not hard wired I/O data points are provided. • Meters shall also be integrated to third party data acquisition platforms as required. • Projects shall provide building level submetering for steam, chilled water, natural gas and electricity. Chilled water submetering should be provided at each chiller. Specialty medical / lab equipment requiring chilled water shall be metered separately per manufacturer’s recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 524 2023 Variable Frequency Drive Interface • Furnish and install a communication interface between each fan and pump variable frequency drive and the direct digital control system. Preferred communication protocol shall be BACnet. BATC Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating with the VFD manufacturer for communication protocol requirements per equipment per project. Interface shall allow for simultaneous two way communications between the VFD and BMS. This functionality shall allow an operator to remotely monitor and adjust all variables via the BMS operator workstation. • Hard wired Interface: Fans (Air Handling Systems, Heating and Ventilation Units, Exhaust Fans and Cooling Tower Fans) o Start/stop o Speed control o Safety shutdown (i.e., pressure switch and low temperature thermostat) o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic o Note: Fan run status shall be monitored via current sensing relay, provided and installed by BATC Contractor. • Hard wired Interface: Pumps o Start/stop o Speed control o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic • Communication Interface. The following input points shall be monitored via the BMS: o Speed feedback o Output frequency o Current (amps) o % torque o Power (kW) o Kilowatt hours o Operating hours o Drive temperature o All diagnostic warning and fault information o Remote fault reset o Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected o Bypass selected o Motor running in bypass mode o Motor running in inverter mode o Note: The BMS shall monitor the Auto position of the VFD serving the fan via the communication interface specified herein. On receiving indication that the fan is not operating in “Auto”, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 525 2023 Packaged Air Conditioning Units • Packaged air conditioning units to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the units. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the unit, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Chillers • Chillers to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the chiller. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the chiller, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Room Pressure Monitors • Room pressure monitors to be provided with BACnet MS/TP communication interface option. viii. Power a. Emergency Power • All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller, etc.) is on emergency power. • If emergency power is not available or perceived as not available, notify the NYULH facility management team that emergency/standby power is not available for controller use and NYULH staff will provide direction. • Any DDC controller that’s powered with Emergency Power shall be connected to a UPS power source. This includes Terminal units for Critical Spaces. b. Terminal Unit Controller Power For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking: • Power to terminal unit controls shall be 120VAC with enclosure mounted 24VAC step down transformer, fuse and disconnect switch. For Fan Coil Units: • Power to fan coil unit controls shall use a line voltage to 24VAC step down transformer, fuse, and disconnect switch. • Control power shall come from the line side of the fan coil unit power (upstream of the disconnect), to prevent communication loss when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 526 2023 ix. Naming a. Point Naming • All point naming conventions shall be reviewed and accepted by the Facilities Management Team prior to being implemented. • Each point name shall consist of the following components: o First two or three letter prefix = building identification.  Controls contractor shall confirm with the Facilities Management Team that the building prefix is unique and the convention does not already exist. o The next two or three letter or numerals = Equipment Identification o The last two or three letters = Device identification o Example: KP_HX1_SWT or KPHX1SWT = Kimmel Pavilion_Heat Exchanger 1_Supply Water Temperature b. Controller Addressing • All IP addresses are to be provided by MCIT and the Facilities Management Team once the necessary IT infrastructure is in place. o In the event of new building construction this infrastructure will not be in place until the building is near completion. • BACnet device addressing is to be managed by the BATC Contractor and should be within the vendor’s assigned address range as follows: o Alerton:  500 999  100000 199999 o Automated Logic:  300000 399999 o Facilities Management Team and the Senior Controls Specialists are to provide BACnet device addresses for devices outside of the assigned vendor address ranges. o Facilities Management Team and Senior Controls Specialists must be provided with any necessary tools and software to change the BACnet device address on any devices installed. x. Hardware Interlocks a. Safety Circuit Engineering • Safety devices (i.e., low temperature detectors, high pressure switches, low pressure switches, life safety shutdown relay contacts) shall be wired to starters and/or VFD’s such that equipment will stop regardless if operating in hand, automatic, manual, or bypass. • All safeties serving a variable frequency drive or starter (i.e., low temperature thermostat, fire shutdown contact, pressure switch, end switch, etc.,) must be wired to a terminal strip outside of the VFD/starter, in a standard, labeled NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 527 2023 enclosure where voltage readings can be taken to facilitate troubleshooting. Each safety should be wired to an individual pair of terminals and labeled as to what safety it is. In addition, all safeties must have individual auxiliary contact wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring. In lieu of a separate enclosure, it is acceptable to utilize the DDC field equipment panel. • All systems requiring interlock wiring shall be hardwired interlocked and shall not rely on the BMS to operate. Interlock wiring shall be run in separate conduits from BMS associated wiring. Examples: o Emergency generator to fuel oil pump interlock, emergency generator damper interlock, etc. o Motorized damper interlock to fan starter. b. Humidifier Valve Lockout • The humidifier valve shall be prevented from opening via a hardwired interlock with a current sensing relay used to monitor fan run status. • The current sensing relay shall be wired to a double pole, double throw relay. One normally open pole shall be wired as an input to the DDC unit for fan run status. The other normally open pole shall be wired in series with the control signal to the humidifier valve such that when the fan is off, the humidifier valve shall be “hardwired” closed. • Upon a fan trip, the humidifier valves shall immediately fail in the closed position. c. High Discharge Pressure Switches and Low Suction Pressure Switches • Pressure differential switches installed in the discharge of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan, which sense discharge pressure, shall stop the fan and transmit an alarm to the operator workstation if the pressure set point of the switch is exceeded. • A separate pressure switch installed in the inlet of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan shall also stop the fan and transmit the alarm if fan suction pressure is below its set point. • Pressure switches shall be automatic reset type. • The fan shutdown shall be operative whether the variable frequency drive Hand Off Inverter Bypass switch is in the Inverter, Bypass or Hand position. • Individual alarms (high and low) will be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 528 2023 d. Low Temperature Switches Low temperature switches (freezestats), one (1) for each cooling coil section, shall follow the following sequence: • Pre time delay timeout: o Any freezestat installed on the inlet of the cooling coil shall initiate a safety shutdown sequence upon sensing a temperature below the low limit setting of 35°F, locally adjustable at each freezestat. o Each normally closed freezestat shall have a unique input and identifier. o Any freezestat trip shall activate a time delay relay. o Upon activation of the freezestat switch status input, the following shall occur (before time delay timeout):  The unique freezestat switch status input will be ON.  The time delay relay will initiate the elapsed time countdown  A pre alarm condition indicator shall activate at the BMS graphics containing the unique freezestat identifier  Preheat low limit setpoint will raise 10°F (adjustable)  CHW control valve will open to at least (if it isn’t already greater than open) • Post time delay timeout: o Upon activation of any freezestat switch status input for a continuous elapsed time of 30 seconds via the adjustable time delay relay, the following shall occur:  The supply fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The return fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The chilled water valve shall open to  The preheat valves shall control to a preheat discharge temperature setpoint of 95°F (adjustable)  A five star alarm must be generated each time a freezestat time delay relay activates.  Each time delay relay shall have an independent five star alarm.  After the freezestat switch status turns off, the five star critical alarm can be manually set to OFF via the BMS. Once the alarm is off and the unit can be manually restarted via the BMS.  The outside air intake damper(s) shall close  The supply fan discharge damper(s) shall close e. Leak Detection • On trigger of a leak alarm, associated cooling isolation and control valves shall shut while associated fans are allowed to operate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 529 2023 f. Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. xi. HMI/Graphics General Requirements: • Dynamic graphics shall be created for each system interfaced with the building management system. Systems include, but are not limited to, air handling units, air conditioning units, heating and ventilation units, exhaust fans, pumps, chillers, heat exchangers, plumbing systems, electrical systems, etc. • Summary graphics shall be created for systems as described herein. Summary graphics shall be updated, on a per project basis, as modifications are made to each respective system. The summary graphics are intended to be live documents that continue to evolve as various systems are added, removed and/or modified. • Where air handling or water systems serve areas other than Mechanical Equipment Rooms, provide dynamic color floor plan displays indicating the area served. The displays shall include all physical and virtual points associated with the respective system. • The graphical interface shall allow users to access system schematics, floor plans, summary graphics, “as built” documentation, operation and maintenance manuals via a hierarchal graphical penetration scheme and menu selection. • Colors shall be used to indicate the status of points (e.g., RED = alarm, GREEN = normal) and these colors shall change as the status of the equipment changes. Provide a software program that shall notify the operator that a point has been placed in operator override. Notification shall be identified on the respective system graphic. • Dynamic temperature values, humidity values, flow values and status indication shall automatically update to represent current conditions without operator intervention and without predefined screen refresh rates. • All values displayed on the graphics shall include appropriate engineering units. • Values/icons for points which are placed in an override or locked state by an operator command shall clearly be identified and displayed in a manner that the operator can identify these locked points. • Performance overviews shall be provided for each building totaling its actual energy usage with a detailed comparison to its expected usage, on a month by month basis, as well as an annual basis. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 530 2023 Sitewide Main Page shall contain the following: • Site map with links to each individual building. • Link to each campus summary graphic. • Common Critical Data: o Outdoor air temperature o Outdoor air humidity o Outdoor air CO2 o Outdoor air enthalpy o Outdoor air dewpoint. Individual Building Main Page: • Graphics should be organized by building and floor with links to all the equipment that serves that floor on the graphics link. • Building Operator Links (the following are examples from the NYULH Main Campus): o Tisch Hospital  Ancillary  Millhauser o Alumni Hall o Medical Science Building Berg o Coles Student Laboratory o Schwartz Lecture Hall o Skirball Institute o Smilow Research Center o Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) o 660 First Avenue o Energy Building o Greenberg Hall o Kimmel Pavilion o Science Building • Each building shall be presented with an individual main page. The main page shall consist of the following: o Link to the sitewide main page o Link to each respective floor plan of the building o Link to building summary graphics for each of the following systems:  Condenser water system and all connected equipment (i.e., packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Chilled water system and all connected equipment (i.e., air handling units, packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Air handling unit relevant data such as run status, supply temperature, static pressure, and active alarm (tabular format). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 531 2023  Supply, return and exhaust duct distribution and all connected equipment (single line format).  VAV box relevant data such as temperature set point, actual temperature and list of rooms served. (Tabular Format).  Electrical distribution system, inclusive of all electrical status, alarm and metering points (single line format).  Environmental boxes, refrigerators and freezers (tabular format).  Instrument air systems pressure readings, interconnections, risers, branch piping, isolation valves.  Communication network indicating all controllers, wiring configurations, controller addresses, controller location. Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, VAV summary graphic should contain the AHU and reheat water system links. o Links to each system group. Groups are defined as follows:  Air handling units  Air conditioning units  Exhaust fans  Chilled water system  Condenser water system  Hot water system  Secondary water systems  Process cooling systems  Domestic water  Medical air systems  Operating Rooms  Environmental boxes  Generators  UPS systems  Automatic transfer systems  Double ended substations o Individual links to each piece of equipment and/or system within each group. All graphics must show the name of the system and its service area. All systems that serve the system illustrated on the graphic, must be identified and linked to. For example, if a fan system provides the outside air delivered to a fan coil unit, the fan system tag must be identified at the outdoor air intake on the graphic. If a system serves VAV boxes, this must be indicated on the system graphic with a link to the VAV boxes provided. o Refer to the Reference Section for sample graphic indicating a typical floor plan. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 532 2023 Location Summary Graphics: • Graphics shall include the following: o Steam system (displayed in a single line format) o Chilled water system (displayed in a single line format) o Electric distribution systems (displayed in a single line format) o Pneumatic air systems (displayed in a single line format) o Domestic water system single line riser diagram showing domestic water meter POE, pumping system, water tower, domestic hot water systems and other water users. o Medical air system per building o Operating Rooms (tabular format) o Energy metering (tabular format) o Air handlers/exhaust fans by building and floor location o Reheat/perimeter/secondary water by system by building and floor location (displayed in a "single line" format) o Generators by building (tabular format) o FCU's by building and floor (tabular format) o Walk in boxes, environmental boxes, hot rooms (tabular format) o ATS (tabular format) o UPS (tabular format) o Sump/ejector pumps (tabular format) o Critical Labs (Berg/Smilow ABSL 3 temps, pressures) o Refrigeration cooling towers (displayed in a "single line" format) o Control air plants (displayed in a "single line" format) o Steam PRV’s and perimeter steam control valves (tabular format) o Sump/ejector/condensate pump (tabular format) o Animal holding rooms (tabular format) o Fire systems, preactions (tabular format) o Decontamination showers (tabular format) o Room pressure monitoring (tabular format) o Domestic water, water heaters, booster pumps, house tanks (tabular format) o Communication network indicating workstations, servers, network switches and primary controllers with respective locations and wiring configurations.  Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, chilled water system summary graphic should contain links to each chilled water system. • Campus summary graphics shall be a compiled building system overviews. The campus single lines will be the summation of the building single line drawings. All systems should be grouped together with similar systems in a building. If there are no other similar systems in the building a new overview shall be started for that system with LED alarm bringing you to that page in the event of a critical alarm. NO GRAPHICS SHALL BE GROUPED OR LABELED “miscellaneous”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 533 2023 • Summary graphics shall be updated as the systems they represent are modified. Floor Plans: • Floor plans shall display air and piping distribution systems in single line format. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment located on the floor (i.e., exhaust fans, air conditioning units, VAV boxes, environmental boxes, etc.) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment that is not located on the floor, but serves the floor (i.e., air handling units, exhaust fans and water systems) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall show dynamic variable monitoring space conditions (i.e., temperature, humidity, CO2, room pressures, etc.) in actual field installed location of sensing device. • Floor plans to indicate latest room numbers. Equipment: • Each individual equipment graphic shall include the following links: o Sitewide main page o Individual building main page o Each floor served by the equipment o Summary graphic associated with the system • For example: Air handling unit graphic is to include links to the following summary graphics: o Chilled water system o Steam or hot water system o VAV box summary system o Network communications • At the top of each graphic, indicate the equipment tag, location and what it serves (e.g., AHU TH 2 1, 2nd Floor MER, Floors 3 7) • Individual equipment graphics shall indicate all input/outputs points associated with the system. Points shall be shown in the appropriate locations. • Set point increments shall be defaulted as follows. Any modifications must be approved by the Facility Management Team. o Temperature: 1°F o Humidity: RH o Static Pressure: 0.1 in w.c. o Airflow: 100 cfm o Water flow: 50 gpm o Water differential pressure: 2 psig • Individual equipment graphics shall include links to graphic page of all points monitored via third party equipment interface. For example, provide link for display page of all data points associated with variable frequency drive. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 534 2023 • Graphics shall clearly indicate the fail state positions for all BMS controlled devices. xii. Reports General Requirements: • Reports shall be generated on demand or via a predefined schedule. Predefined Reports: • The following predefined reports shall be created and updated as modifications are made to the respective equipment and/or facility: o Controller Online/Offline Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, online/offline status.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Controller Reboot Status (Campus Wide):  Report to include controller tag, location, quantity of reboots and time of occurrence.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis. o Equipment Uptime (per Building):  Report to include equipment tag, location, required uptime, actual uptime.  Report generated automatically on a monthly basis. o Operating Room Humidity:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location, humidity level over 24 hour period (highest, average, lowest).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Operating Room Pressurization:  Report to include Operating Room tag, location and pressurization level over 24 hour period (positive, neutral, negative).  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Domestic Hot Water Temperature (per Building):  Report to include: Common supply water temperature Monthly hours Hours in Compliance (98 117.5°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (117.5 120°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (120 125°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (125 200°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (90 98°F) Identified by total hours and percentage NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 535 2023 Out of Compliance hours (80 90°F) Identified by total hours and percentage Out of Compliance hours (35 80°F) Identified by total hours and percentage  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period o Room Pressurization (per Building Not Including Operating Rooms):  Report to include room tag, location, required pressurization mode, actual pressurization mode.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperature (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water temperature transmitter tag, location, actual temperature (highest, average and lowest). Note: Temperature data referenced in this report is only specific to each chiller plant’s common chilled water supply and return temperature.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. o Chilled Water Differential Pressure (Campus Wide):  Report to include chilled water differential pressure transmitter tag, location, actual pressure (highest, average and lowest). Note: Differential pressure data referenced in this report is only specific to each transmitter located in the campus chilled water loop.  Report generated automatically on a daily basis for a 24 hour period. I. References i. Reference Standards Products in this subsection shall be built, tested, and installed in compliance with the specified quality assurance standards; latest versions, unless noted otherwise. • Electrical Standards: Provide electrical products that have been tested, listed and labeled by UL and comply with NEMA standards as well as NFPA 70 (National Electric Code). • NEMA Compliance: Comply with NEMA standards pertaining to components and devices for electrical control systems. • NFPA Compliance: Comply with NFPA 90A “Standard for the Installation of Air Conditioning and Ventilating Systems” where applicable to controls and control sequence. • Install all BMS components, panels, and wiring in compliance with NEC and all local electrical codes. • DDC devices shall use the latest version of ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 135 “BACnet Building Automation and Control Networking Protocol” standard for communications and have passed BTL certification as available. • UL Compliance: DDC Controllers shall comply with UL916 Standard for Energy Management Equipment. DDC Controllers associated with equipment utilized in a smoke control application shall also comply with UUKL UL 864 “Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 536 2023 • National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), NIST IR 6392 Annex B: Profiles of Standard BACnet Devices. • Electronics Industries Association(EIA) o EIA 232: Interface between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Circuit Terminating Equipment employing serial binary data interchange o EIA 485: Standard for Electrical Characteristics of Generator and Receivers for Use in Balanced Digital Multi Point System ii. VAV Balancing Procedure Definitions: • Supply or Exhaust Velocity Pressure = Analog Input into Controller from Field • K Factor = Value from Box Manufacturer’s Design Table • Calibration Factor = Number calculated during balancing Calculating CFM from Velocity Pressure Equation: • CFM = sqrt(Velocity Pressure) x K Factor x Calibration Factor Balancing Procedure • Initial Parameters: o Calibration Factor to 1.00 o Set K Factor according to Box Manufacturer based off Box Size: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 537 2023 Testing Box at Maximum & Minimum Design CFM: • Set Box to Maximum Design CFM • Balancer will obtain a CFM hood reading • BMS Vendor will calculate new Calibration by using this equation o New Calibration Factor = (Balancer CFM Reading)/(BMS CFM Reading) • BMS Vendor will enter new calibration factor in replace of the initialized calibration factor • Balancer final CFM hood reading shall not exceed of BMS final CFM reading at maximum design setpoint • Set Box to Minimum Design CFM • Balancer will obtain a CFM hood reading • Balancer final CFM hood reading shall not exceed of BMS final CFM reading at minimum design setpoint iii. Network Architecture a. BMS Network Architecture shall be reviewed by RED+F and MCIT b. Wherever possible, network architecture shall employ a Zone and Conduit strategy as per IASC99 ISA/ IEC 62443 series of standards NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 538 2023 iv. Typical Floor Plan Sample BMS Graphics NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 539 2023 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 540 2023 v. BMS IT Architecture and Remote Access Requirements • The BMS vendor shall install a dedicated BMS server at each site (per building or per campus). The server shall be placed in the BDF. If the BDF is not available, the IDF may be used. The BMS Network shall have one point of connection to the MCIT network. o BMS vendor to provide the smallest form factor server possible. o MCIT PM will confirm BDF or IDF availability, power availability and be responsible for ordering any shelving or accessories required to mount the server.  Emergency Power with UPS is preferable. If UPS power is already available in the BDF, this shall be used.  If UPS power is not available, a stand alone UPS shall be installed. Standard model: APC SUA500PDRI H. UPS is available in both rack mounted and standalone models. • The server shall be connected to a managed switch (acceptable models listed) • MCIT to provide a patch cable from the BMS Managed Switch to the MCIT network • The MCIT PM shall work with IT Security and Network Security to specify, purchase and install the firewall (if not already present at the site). • The BMS contractor is responsible for all low voltage cabling to the BMS managed switch. MCIT can assist with pathways and routing. • The BMS network shall use a private class C IP network: 192.168.xxx.xxx/16 • If this IP scheme cannot be used, review with MCIT Joint Architecture and Engineering Review is required • The BMS contractor must provide to the project team (both the MCIT and RED+F PMs) a network architecture single line diagram showing the following information: o For each device, identify the following  Device Name  Device type (make, model)  Physical Location  IP address if available  MAC address (can be added later if device has not yet been ordered) o Between devices, identify the communication protocols and if applicable, wire type o Identify direction of traffic flow o Identify ports used to communicate externally o Identify means of external data storage • The MCIT PM will create a ticket in HEAT to enable RDP, HTTPS and SSH on the firewall NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 541 2023 • All vendors requiring access to the BMS must have an NYULH KID. o KID requests are placed by the RED+F sponsor: The sponsor is either the Facilities Manager, Operations Manager or Tenant Coordinator for the site.  Do not request an NYULH email account/address o After the KID is received, the Sponsor must create subsequent new requests for CyberArk and Advanced Access VPN o Once the Contractor has received their KID and the resultant access to the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org), they must register for the DUO two factor authentication. Upon login to InsideHealth, they will be prompted with instructions to register.  Do not download DUO from the App Store / Google Play and install directly on your device. This will not work. It must be downloaded from the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org). • The BMS should have an HTML5 Web Application. This will be the primary means of accessing the BMS for both NYULH and vendor staff. o The local BMS IP shall be access from the NYULH network via a NAT IP address. o The MCIT PM will request that the BMS website IP be NAT’ed to an NYULH 10. IP address o From on site at NYULH, the BMS web app can be accessed from any device o For remote access, F5 BIG IP edge client shall be used, and can be downloaded from the InsideHealth portal (insidehealth.nyumc.org). • For BMS vendors requiring remote access to the BMS server, CyberArk must be used o MCIT PM will place a ticket to NAT the server IP to a local NYULH IP o Once CyberArk access is approved (see above), the vendor will need to add the 10. IP address of the server to their Cyberark profile.  Cyberark supports both Windows and Linux environments o Remote Desktop via Cyberark is the only approved method of remote access. Other products (such as Teamviewer, VNC, LogmeIn) are not permitted. o BMS vendor is responsible for keeping anti virus and patches up to date on all vendor managed equipment. • The BMS vendor shall configure email alarms via NYULH’s smtp relay o smtp.nyumc.org (10.185.64.51) Port 25 o From: NYUOffsites@nyulangone.org o To: <email addresses/distribution list address> o Note: Distribution lists can be created by MCIT by opening a ticket o No username/password required o Authentication: None o Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, etc. email relays are not permitted. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 542 2023 vi. Non Standard CIOT System Remote Access Requests In some cases, should the non standard procedure for configuring remote access to an independent CIOT be available, the following guidelines shall be followed: • The OT vendor or Design Engineer shall prepare a network architecture diagram. The diagram must include the following: o A single line drawing of all networked devices o For each device, identify the following  Device Name  Device type (make, model)  Physical Location  IP address if available  MAC address (can be added later if device has not yet been ordered) • Between devices, identify the communication protocols and if applicable, wire type o Identify direction of traffic flow o Identify ports used to communicate externally o Identify means of external data storage • The Network Diagram shall be reviewed by The Project Manager, BMS Standards Committee, The Senior Manager, RED+F Information Strategy, and the Facility Manager • Once approved by the Senior Manager, Information Strategy, if external connectivity (to the internet or to the MCIT network), a review must be completed by MCIT Security. This can be requested through MCIT Heat Ticket System • Upon approval from MCIT Security, review is required by MCIT Network Security to determine IP address and firewall requirements. • In cases where a web server is not available, The OT vendor can provide an operator workstation or laptop. The BMS vendor will be responsible for patching, anti virus and updates in accordance with NYULH MCIT standards. Any exceptions to anti virus policy must be reviewed and approved by MCIT Security. END OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 545 2023 CLOSE OUT PACKAGE At the end of a project, close out packages are to be completed and submitted to RED+F per the Substantial Completion and Project Closeout Checklists shown below. The goal is to have all projects closed 120 days after the first user has moved in. The A/E Team shall request the latest version of these checklists from the RED+F PM at time of close out. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CLOSE OUT PACKAGE Real Estate Development and Facilities 546 2023 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 547 2023 PHOTOGRAPHY The RED+F Project Manager shall engage a professional photographer pre approved by the Design Studio to photograph the project after construction is complete and before move in. The cost of this shall be included in the Project Budget. A professional photographer may also be engaged by the Architect to photograph the project. The Architect shall request pre approval from NYU Langone Health of the photographer they wish to use. The RED+F PM and GC/CM shall allocate sufficient time in the schedule to professionally photograph the project. The time shall be clearly shown on the project schedule. The length of time needed will be based on the size and scope of the project. At a minimum two days will be allocated for spaces up to 50,000 GSF. One more day shall be allocated for each additional 50,000 GSF. Final photography must be scheduled as follows:  After construction is complete and no contractors are on the premises  After final cleaning has occurred  Before any move in preparation has begun All the major public spaces and architecturally important components shall be photographed sufficiently to show the scope of the project. Final high resolution files shall be provided to the Design Studio at RED+F via the RED+F PM without charge to NYU Langone. Below are a few examples: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PHOTOGRAPHY Real Estate Development and Facilities 548 2023 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 549 2023 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS RED+F is continually seeking to improve the Design and Construction process of the built environment and has established a Built Environment Improvement Cycle. The cycle, which consists of Design Construction Occupancy Evaluation and back to Design, allows for continual improvement of the built environment by establishing a Post Occupancy Evaluation phase. The Post Occupancy Evaluation phase occurs after the users have moved in and utilized the space for a certain period of time, typically about a year. The intent of the Post Occupancy Evaluation is to provide feedback on the design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The RED+F Design Studio performs the Post Occupancy Evaluation. It is important the same group perform the evaluation in order to maintain a consistent basis of analysis between projects. Results of Post Occupancy Evaluations are then used to inform Project Teams and update the Design Guidelines. For example, materials and furniture that are not holding up well are removed from the Design Guidelines. Materials and furniture that are not part of the Design Guidelines but were approved for a particular project and have been holding up well are considered for inclusion in the Design Guidelines. This process reduces maintenance costs and streamlines the Design process. Built Environment Improvement Cycle DesignConstructionOccupancyEvaluationNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATIONS Real Estate Development and Facilities 550 2023 POST OCCUPANCY EVALUATION FORM The intent of the Design Post Occupancy Evaluation Form is to provide feedback on the overall design and general performance of materials and furniture over a period of time. The information will be used to continually update the Design Guidelines. PROJECT NAME: PROJECT ADDRESS: NAME OF ARCHITECT: DATE OF OCCUPANCY: DATE OF EVALUATION: NAME OF EVALUATOR(S): EVALUATION ITEMS RATINGS (1 10) 1. Floor Finishes……………………………………………………………………………………………..……………... # 2. Wall/Base Finishes.…………………………………………………………………………………..…………..…… # 3. Doors/Hardware…………………………………………………………………………………………………….….. # 4. Millwork/Casework……………………………………………………………………………………………………. # 5. Ceilings…………………………………………………………………………………….…………………………….….. # 6. Lighting………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. # 7. Furniture…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. # 8. Signage/Wayfinding……………………………………………………………………………………………………. # 9. Specialty (Reception Desk, Nurse Station, etc.)…………………………………………………………… # 10. Other (Pantry Appliances, Plumbing Fixtures, Toilet/Building Accessories, Trash/Recycling Receptacles, etc.) …………………………………………………………………. # Total # * Ratings: 1 = Needs Work, 3 = Fair, 5=Average, 7=Above Average, 9=Very Good, 10=Exceptional