Page 1 of 26 Health Equity Impact Assessment SECTION A. SUMMARY 1. Title of project NYU LH Schwartz HCC Renovations 3rd Floor Transplant 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Lisa Bowleg, PhD, MA • Melissa Corrado, MBA 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has more than 25 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with 20 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is a professor and Chair of the Department of Urban Education at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health equity. Lisa Bowleg is a national leader in health equity and intersectionality. She has more than 20 years of experience applying intersectionality to health equity research and practice. She is the founder and president of the Intersectionality Training Institute and a professor in applied social psychology and social Page 2 of 26 and behavioral sciences at the George Washington University. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 1/8/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 3/21/2024 7. Executive summary of project The Applicant’s proposed project is to relocate and consolidate transplant services for heart, lung, and liver to a single space at their main campus (550 First Ave, New York NY). The clinics where patients are currently seen are Rivergate (401 E. 34th Street, New York NY) and White Building (317 E. 34th Street, New York NY), which are 384 feet and 528 feet, respectively, from main campus. As a result of this relocation, patients in need of a transplant will receive evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits all in one designated space, rather than they and their care partners having to go to multiple sites. During their appointments, patients and their care partners will sit in one room while the care team, consisting of transplant psychiatrists, nurse educators, financial counselors, nutritionists, physicians, and surgeons, rotate through as needed. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) Based on our assessment, we are confident that this project will greatly benefit the medically underserved groups—and all patients—who receive heart, lung, and liver transplant services at the NYU Langone Health Transplant Institute. The consolidation of services and the rotating services in a single place is a gold standard of care for people with serious health conditions and who need care and services over time. It eliminates significant barriers and burdens related to access to care and services and improves health equity, particularly for low income people who do not have the luxury of taking multiple days off of work and losing income; older people and people with disabilities and health limitations for whom any travel is difficult; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency who need to arrange interpretation services and/or are not familiar with New York City. The project also increases the likelihood of patients receiving all the care and services they need, which we expect improve health outcomes. Those who we engaged for input overwhelmingly agreed that it would ease physical challenges, lift some of the emotional weight of being a transplant patient or donor, increase follow up adherence, and reduce exposure to Page 3 of 26 pathogens, among other benefits. Our assessment also showed that the Applicant has a robust infrastructure and processes for monitoring health equity and disparities and communicating the change. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area: Complete the “Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2” in the document “HEIA Data Tables”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance about what each Scoping Table Sheet requires. See Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2 in the “Transplant HEIA Scoping Sheets” document. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project:  Low income people  Racial and ethnic minorities  Immigrants  Women  Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people  People with disabilities  Older adults  Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition  Persons living in rural areas  People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits  People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage  Other people who are unable to obtain health care  Not listed (specify): 3. For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? Page 4 of 26 We leveraged the Applicant’s internal data and the NYULH Transplant Institute’s direct knowledge of the patient population to identify the medically underserved groups that would be impacted by the project. While robust internal data is collected, it did not reflect immigrant or disability status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Immigrants American Community Survey, 2021 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 • Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people NYSDOH Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey, 2021 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2021 • Older adults internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2021 Overall, a combination of internal and external data sources was used to identify the medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project. Although the BRFS Survey provided some information related to LGBTQ+ people, we were unable to filter data by county or zip code due to limitations of the data set. 4. How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Those navigating the NYULH Transplant Institute’s clinics on a typical day include patients undergoing initial evaluation, those on waitlists, those who are post transplant, and care partners. Depending on the organ system impacted, patients are seen at a variety of clinical locations for evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits. Currently, patients and care partners must further go to different hospital locations to access ancillary services, including lab services, radiology, etc. The proposed project will relocate and consolidate transplant services for heart, lung, and liver by relocating them to a single space at the main campus (550 First Ave, New York NY). The clinics where patients are currently seen are Rivergate (401 E. 34th Street, New York NY) and White Building (317 E. 34th Street, New York NY), which are 384 feet and 528 feet, respectively, from main campus. As a result of this relocation, patients in need of a transplant will receive evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits all in one designated space, rather than having to go to multiple sites. During their appointments, patients and their care partners will sit in one room while the care team, Page 5 of 26 consisting of transplant psychiatrists, nurse educators, financial counselors, nutritionists, physicians, and surgeons, rotate through as needed. The proposed changes will improve the patient experience for all medically underserved groups by facilitating patients’ access to necessary services and reducing the need to navigate among clinical areas. Even though the existing clinics are close to each other, this project will eliminate challenges that can serve as barriers to care, including navigating between buildings, scheduling multiple appointments, and coordinating multiple aspects of care. We expect that the greatest positive impact of the relocation of services will be experienced by: • Low income people who will not have to schedule multiple appointments on multiple days, which could reduce loss of income due to missing work. • Older adults and people with disabilities—for whom traveling even short distances can be difficult—who will not have to navigate between sites. • Immigrants, particularly those with Limited English Proficiency, who will not have to arrange interpretation services at multiple sites or, for those not from the US, are not familiar with how to navigate New York City. The stakeholders we engaged spoke positively about how this project would alleviate the physical and emotional burden of attending appointments in multiple locations. As one stakeholder said, “I support moving forward with the project. I think it might minimize the number of separate visits that patients have to coordinate and schedule and come and spend money to travel there and spend energy if they’re not feeling good.” We do not expect that any single group will be adversely affected by this project. 5. To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? Of the patients seen by NYULH’s Transplant Institute within the service area in 2022, relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment (with Medicaid as primary source of payment serving as a proxy for low income population), identified as racial or ethnic minorities, and identified as women. Although the Applicant expects that improvements to patient satisfaction will attract new patients to NYULH, it is anticipated that service utilization by all medically underserved groups will remain constant following the relocation of transplant services. Page 6 of 26 As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to immigrants and LGBTQ+ populations. Therefore, the Independent Entity is unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to these groups. 6. What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? The following hospitals are licensed to provide transplant services in the NY Metro Area (Source: https://profiles.health.ny.gov/hospital/#5.79/42.868/ 76.809) Hospital Location Transplant Designation Long Island Jewish Medical Center Queens Kidney Montefiore Medical Center Bronx Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver Mount Sinai Hospital Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver NYP Columbia Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver NYP NY Weill Cornell Manhattan Adult Heart, Kidney, Liver NYU Langone Hospitals Center Manhattan Adult Heart, Pediatric Heart, Kidney, Liver University Hospital Brooklyn Brooklyn Kidney, Liver North Shore University Hospital Long Island Nassau Adult Heart, Kidney, Liver Stony Brook University Hospital Long Island Suffolk Kidney Westchester Medical Center Westchester Kidney 7. What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? For the purposes of this project, market share is defined as the pool of transplant recipients residing within New York State (NYS) or within the project service area defined as Kings, New York, Nassau, and Queens counties. According to transplant volume data from the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) and United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), the Applicant held on average of the NYS transplant market from 2016 through 2023. Of the transplant centers within the service area, the Applicant held on average market share between 2016 and 2023 in terms of total volume of transplant procedures performed. The following tables demonstrate NYS adult and pediatric transplant volumes by calendar year, NYS adult and pediatric transplant volumes by market share, adult Page 7 of 26 and pediatric transplant volume by market share for the service area, and transplant growth year over year. Page 8 of 26 Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew York414441458487429538538581NYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew York146202289356320478600576NYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew York399389391370423515543552NYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew York260240307343262334297372NYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassau346511613396152234355NYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronx262245289334244318348346NYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroe126127159170192214202212NYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchester95104162125150189193161NYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErie128138144127134147148151NYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondaga1097811360619210594NYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolk8180816788897364NYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKings395853163436160NYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbany5460517573303634NYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronx15488201115NYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau 67106877Total Volume 21482238262426812489316733963580Service Area1 Volume 12921401162117151539206822802503Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew YorkNYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew YorkNYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew YorkNYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew YorkNYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassauNYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronxNYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroeNYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchesterNYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErieNYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondagaNYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolkNYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKingsNYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbanyNYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronxNYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)20162017201820192020202120222023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew YorkNYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew YorkNYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew YorkNYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew YorkNYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassauNYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKingsNYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau Transplant CenterFacility Location(County)2016 20172017 20182018 20192019 20203 2020 20212021 20222022 20232016 2023NYCP TX1 NY Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia Univ. Medical CenterNew York NYUC TX1 NYU Langone HealthNew York NYMS TX1 Mount Sinai Medical CenterNew York NYNY TX1 New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical CenterNew York NYNS TX1 North Shore University Hospital/Northwell HealthNassau NYMA TX1 Montefiore Medical CenterBronx NYFL TX1 Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medical CenterMonroe NYWC TX1 Westchester Medical CenterWestchester NYEC TX1 Erie County Medical CenterErie NYUM TX1 State University of New York Upstate Medical UniversityOnondaga NYSB TX1 University Hospital of State University of New York at Stony BrookSuffolk NYDS TX1 State University of New York, Downstate Medical CenterKings NYAM TX1 Albany Medical Center HospitalAlbany NYVA TX1 James J. Peters VA Medical CenterBronx NYCC TX1 Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical CenterNassau NYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Volumes by CY1 Service Area defined as transplant centers located in Kings, New York Nassau, and Queens counties, highlighted in light purple.2 Value reflects comparison of Long Island Jewish Medical Center Cohen Children's Medical Center transplant volume from program inception in 2017 to 2023.3 Decrease in volume from 2019 to 2020 attributed to policies implemented to address the COVID 19 pandemic.Source: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024NYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Growth YOYSource: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Growth of Transplant Volume (All Facilities in NYS)Growth of Transplant Volume (All Facilities in Service Area1)Total Market ShareService Area1 Market ShareNYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Market Shares by CY Service Area1Source: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Total Service Area1 Market ShareNYS Adult & Pediatric Transplant Market Shares by CYSource: OPTN/UNOS Advance Report run 1.8.2024Page 9 of 26 Overall, transplant volume increased by in New York State between 2016 (2,148 procedures) and 2023 (3,580 procedures). Transplant volume increased in the service area by with 1,292 procedures performed in 2016 compared to 2,503 in 2023. Although all facilities in the service area experienced increased volume during this time period, the two facilities with the greatest increases include North Shore University Hospital/Northwell Health () and NYU Langone Health (). Although it is difficult to project future market share due to a variety of factors, the Applicant has a stated goal of making transplant services accessible to all, including by integrating into communities to meet patients where they are and by exploring innovative ways to expand the donor pool. The Applicant stated that they are working to increase their future market share by partnering with health networks in underserved communities to offer transplant evaluations and additional services to patients who were previously unable to access culturally competent care through the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program described in Step 4, Question 1. They are also spearheading xenotransplantation research to identify novel sources for donor organs in the future, and the Transplant Institute continues to develop new protocols to ensure that as many available organs are transplanted as possible. 8. Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to NYULH, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit healthcare system, NYULH’s stated mission above all is to provide the highest quality healthcare that patients deserve. NYULH provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay, and NYULH has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. In addition, NYULH offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23 (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement NYULH received for that care in FY23). The NYULH Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). NYULH’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Page 10 of 26 Description of the number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in this facility compared to the total number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in the region. NYULH is projecting that of visits at the transplant clinic will be for Medicaid patients in year one (total payor mix includes Medicare, Commercial, Medicaid, and other). According to US Census data, at the New York state level, the payer mix in 2022 was 42. public health insurance coverage (19. Medicare alone or in combination and 28. Medicaid alone or in combination), 65. private health insurance coverage, and 4. uninsured. Description of how this compares to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents for this facility compared to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents in the region. N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 9. Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. No negative impacts are expected. Due to the nature of the project being service relocation, no physician or professional staffing issues are expected. Since there will be no changes to the services offered as a result of the project, no staffing changes are needed. However, patients and care partners interviewed expressed an expected positive result, namely the potential for experiencing greater continuity of care by making it more likely that patients would see the same care team and staff if all in one location. 10. Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. Following is a summary of civil rights access complaints against the Applicant, including date of complaint filing, a summary of the complaint, and the current status of the complaint. Civil Rights Access Complaints against NYULH (not specific to Transplant Institute): • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation:  1 related to disability access Page 11 of 26  2 related to gender discrimination • 10 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed  5 related to disability discrimination  1 related to national origin discrimination  2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color  1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation 11. Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. No. There are no similar projects have been undertaken by the Transplant Institute in the past five years. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a. Improve access to services and health care b. Improve health equity c. Reduce health disparities Since transplant services cut across all patient groups, there will be a positive impact on each medically underserved group identified in Step 1, Question 2 with some additional benefits for some groups. a. Co locating the liver, heart, and lung transplant teams with transplant psychiatry, nutrition, and other services as described in Question 1.4 is expected to improve access to services and healthcare. Housing the range of services needed by patients who need organ transplants in a single space while also ensuring that patients can be seen by multiple providers during each visit increases the likelihood that patients will receive all the services suggested by the care team and have better health outcomes. b. As per the Office of Health Equity and Human Rights, “health equity means achieving the highest level of health for all people and shall entail focused efforts to address avoidable inequalities by equalizing conditions for health for those who have experienced injustices, socioeconomic disadvantages, and systemic disadvantages. Health equity is about addressing the needs experienced by individuals and communities.” (Source: https://www.health.ny.gov/community/health_equity/) While co locating services will likely benefit and equalize conditions for among patients and Page 12 of 26 care partners because it removes the burden of having to navigate among locations and schedule and go to multiple appointments. Removing this burden will likely improve health equity for medically underserved groups who experience the greatest burden, namely, low income people who will not have to risk losing income due to missed work; older adults and people with disabilities for whom any travel can be difficult; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency who need to arrange interpretation services for each appointment or, for those not from the US, are not familiar with how to navigate New York City. c. According to the Office of Health Equity and Human Rights, “health disparities means measurable differences in health status, access to care, and quality of care as determined by race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, a preferred language other than English, gender expression, disability status, aging population, immigration status, and socioeconomic status.” (Source: https://www.health.ny.gov/community/health_equity/) As above, the project may reduce health disparities if all patients, including those most burdened by the current state, are able to receive more of the recommended care and services due to the relocation and consolidation of services. 2. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. There are no unintended negative impacts to health equity expected as a result of the project. There are the positive impacts described in response to Question 2.1.b and 2.1.c, including improving health equity and reducing health disparities by equalizing conditions for health for all patients, improving access to care, and reducing barriers and burdens to care and services for some medically underserved groups, specifically low income people; older people; people with disabilities and health limitations; and immigrants, especially those with Limited English Proficiency and lack of familiarity with New York City. In addition to the impacts already stated, we expect the renovation, accessible space will also solve some of the access issues we heard from patients who use wheelchairs. It is possible that consolidating service sin a single location could improve language access for people with Limited English Proficiency since there are fewer arrangements that need to be made to have interpretation services available. We also expect the cost of transportation for patients will decrease since they will need to come to fewer visits. As we heard from patients, that will be reduce a significant barrier for low income people. Page 13 of 26 3. How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. Following a review of the Applicant’s projected budget, the amount of indigent care the Applicant provides is not projected to change. The project will simply relocate the current services that are offered for liver, lung, and heart transplants and as such, it is not anticipated that the implementation of this project will impact the amount of indigent care provided. In FY23, NYULH contributed $93 million in charity care. 4. Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant's service(s) or care if the project is implemented. The access by public and private transportation is expected to remain unchanged if the project is implemented. As the project will move clinic locations to the main hospital campus (less than ~600 feet away), it is anticipated that patients will use the same public transportation options to get to their appointments. According to the Applicant, patients currently use a wide variety of transportation options. Some patients use private transportation and are accompanied by family members and other caretakers. For these patients, the hospital’s campus offers valet parking at the main entrance, which is not available at the current off site transplant clinics. Some patients may take public transportation such as subway, bus, and ferry, and some use Access A Ride Paratransit Services, provided by the MTA. For those taking the subway, the closest MTA Subway station will remain the 6 train at 33rd Street. The M34 and M34A Select Bus Service stops at 34th Street and 1st Avenue, in close proximity to both the current clinic sites and the hospital campus. The buses also make a stop at the East 34th Street Pier, which can accommodate travelers from the New York City ferry. The Applicant also has a process for patients who need to get to and from their appointments but are unable to cover the cost. In these cases, the hospital organizes and supports the cost of transportation to ensure they can access their care in a safe and timely manner. This is available to patients who express a need, regardless of their income status. 5. Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. As previously described, patients seen by the Transplant Institute for lung, heart, and liver transplants must currently navigate between multiple buildings and clinical areas to Page 14 of 26 receive necessary care. The proposed relocation of services into one space will reduce architectural barriers by eliminating patients’ need to navigate between multiple spaces during evaluation, waitlist, and post transplant visits. According to the Applicant, alterations of buildings within the New York City including the proposed third floor Transplant Outpatient Clinic at NYU Langone Health’s Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) are governed by the Accessibility Chapter (Chapter 11) of the New York City Building Code. Per Chapter 11; sites, buildings, structures, facilities, elements, and spaces shall be designed and constructed to be accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with ICC A117.1 and the New York City Building Code. In compliance with Chapter 11 the Transplant Outpatient Clinic includes the following accessible elements: • An accessible arrival point in compliance with NYC BC 1104.1 • An accessible public entrance in compliance with NYC 1105.1 • An accessible route connecting spaces within the building including HCC 03 Transplant Outpatient Clinic per NYC BC 1104.3 • Accessible toilet rooms including family and/or assisted use toilets along the accessible route in compliance with NYC BC 1109.2 • Accessible drinking fountains (quench filtered water coolers) in compliance with NYC BC 1109.5 • Accessible seating at tables, counters, and work surfaces in compliance with NYC BC 1109.11 • Accessible controls, operating mechanisms, and hardware in compliance with NYC BC 1109.13 • Accessible signage in compliance with NYC BC 1111.1 6. Describe how implementation of the project will impact the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services, as that term is used in Public Health Law § 2599 aa, including contraception, sterility procedures, and abortion. How will the project impact the availability and provision of reproductive and maternal health care services in the service area? How will the Applicant mitigate any potential disruptions in service availability? N/A. The project does will have no impact on the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services. Meaningful Engagement 7. List the local health department(s) located within the service area that will be impacted by the project. Page 15 of 26 New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH) 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? We spoke with two individuals within the Bureau of Equitable Health Systems in the Center for Health Equity and Community Wellness at NYC DOHMH about the project. Max Hadler is the Director of Policy and Immigrant Initiatives, Health Care Access and Policy Unit. Emma Clippinger is the Director of Healthcare System Policy and Legal Strategy. Mr. Hadler expressed that the clearest benefit of the move is that it would place less of the burden of navigating and receiving services on the patient, the community member, or their support network. He noted that reducing the number of variables that people, especially people in a situation of being evaluated for a transplant, must take upon themselves the better. “The more places you have to go, it's like a multiplier effect for people who are already at a disadvantage in terms of navigating physical space, like language, for example, or physical disability…The idea of having everything on one medical campus sounds relatively better than having to travel all across town.” The move was identified as an opportunity to address language access barriers by making it more efficient for in person interpreters to support non English speaking patients. Mr. Hadler and Ms. Clippinger both raised broader transportation and access issues that this move may not address, such as the challenge of getting to the NYULH medical campus for transplant patients. Mr. Hadler noted that while conceptually, having things under one roof makes sense, he cautioned that it is important to ensure it is not pulling services from community settings that may be more conveniently located to a specific community that disproportionately tends to access those services and to ensure that patients understand services they are receiving and any related billing. We made three attempts, one during the interview and two via follow up emails, to obtain a verbatim statement from the DOHMH representatives but did not receive one. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders: Complete the “Meaningful Engagement” table in the document titled “HEIA Data Table”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance. See Meaningful Engagement table in HEIA Data Table attached. Page 16 of 26 10. Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern about the project or offered relevant input? As part of our meaningful engagement of stakeholders, we spoke with 13 stakeholders about the project. We conducted seven patient interviews; held two community conversations with CBO leaders, staff, and community members; and interviewed a social worker who works with the transplant community. Patients included lung, heart, and liver transplant recipients, including a double transplant recipient, and a living donor. One of our community conversations included the parent of a pediatric heart transplant patient. We spoke with five members of a racial and/or ethnic minority groups, two immigrants/refugees, two individuals identifying as LGBTQ+, two individuals over 65 years old, three people living with a disability, two people living in a rural area, four low income individuals, and four Medicaid recipients. The stakeholders most impacted by the project are transplant patients experiencing various health conditions pre and post transplant that make traveling to multiple locations for appointments challenging, low income people, people with physical disabilities and health limitations, and people with Limited English Proficiency No groups expressed concern about the project. Some stakeholders asked questions about if the consolidating of services would result in longer wait times to be seen, if it would involve being in a more crowded waiting room, and if quality of any of the services would be affected. 11. How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? Based on our engagement, we conclude that the proposed consolidation of services to have overwhelmingly beneficial impacts on transplant patients and their care partners. Impact on transplant patients with physical disabilities and complex health conditions Nearly all transplant patients described how the proposed consolidation of services would ease the physical challenges they faced in going to multiple locations to receive transplant related services. Specifically, patients highlighted how health conditions like brain fog, fatigue, pain, wheelchair use, oxygen tanks, and weakness make it difficult for them to go to multiple floors and/or buildings. A double transplant recipient who received a heart and kidney transplant at the Transplant Institute described that she had to go to one building for the heart team and then another building a couple of blocks away to see the kidney team, which was particularly strenuous for her while she was on dialysis. A heart transplant patient who faced complications that led to amputations on Page 17 of 26 her foot described how consolidating services would address the physical challenge of visiting multiple locations: “Everybody would be there right. I wouldn't have to go all over, especially for me…I am amputated, I have no toes on either foot, so walking is, I'm getting better at it, but it's still challenging. So it's a lot of walking, you know, from building to building.” Heart transplant patient, living with disability As one community leader noted, “it takes a lot of out of patients to hop around to different places” and the idea of consolidating to one location was seen as a way to lessen the sheer exhaustion many patients experience as they navigate their appointments leading up to and following their transplant. Another patient shared how the multiple locations were difficult to navigate while being in a wheelchair and having an oxygen tank. After doing one day of appointments, the patient described the experience of going to multiple locations as a nightmare: “When I was in the wheelchair the doctor said to me if it's hard for you to come and go we can admit to you. And I preferred to be admitted because I know that this is going to be a nightmare for me. I did it [appointments in various places] one day. One day I did it, and it was a nightmare, and that's where I spoke to the doctor, and I said to her, ‘I can't. I cannot do that for the whole week. And it's gonna take more than a week because it's not done in the hospital, so it's going to be in different places.’ And I said to her, ‘I don't think I can make it with my oxygen and wheelchair. I don't think I can make it.’” Double lung transplant patient, immigrant, low income, living with disability To mitigate the issues with moving to multiple locations for appointments, the doctor decided to admit the patient to the hospital to get all tests done in one location. The patient explained that the Transplant Institutes’ intended consolidation would give everyone the opportunity to have a healthcare experience like being admitted to a hospital and getting all services in one place. Furthermore, several individuals spoke about the potential that having all services in one location offers for lifting the emotional weight of the experience for transplant patients and their care partners. It was described as an opportunity to give individuals “peace of mind” knowing that managing multiple locations was one less thing they had to worry about. The mother of a pediatric heart transplant patient described it as follows: “[My daughter] who was young, she was just 10 years, and sometimes it was rainy, it was snowing. When she was waiting for the transplant, she was with a life vest, with a pic line, with the medicine that made her heart work until they donated, and it was so hard for me to walk these streets with a kid in this weather…you know with the stress to go to New York [from NJ] plus all this stuff is a combination of like a parents Page 18 of 26 and family…things that we deal with.” Caregiver, racial and ethnic minority, immigrant, Medicaid insured A community leader echoed this sentiment saying: “I'm thinking of some of the pediatric patients, parents can just go to one location or caregivers can go to one location, and the providers come to them. I think that you know just the emotional weight will be lifted from having to circle around to many different places. So you know, there's that emotional piece.” Community leader Importantly, several transplant patients and community leaders also noted that consolidating services to one location would reduce potential exposure to pathogens for this vulnerable group. “Reducing having to hop around from building to building. I also think it's, healthwise, it's safer because you don't have exposure to as many potentially airborne pathogens, which is very important for patients who have compromised immune systems.” Community leader Community members highlighted two other important benefits of consolidating services related to clinical care. A community leader recognized that having all services in one location could improve follow up appointment adherence by eliminating the barrier of having to visit multiple locations on multiple days to receive all aspects of a patients care. This was seen as having the potential to improve health outcomes by way of facilitating the patient getting to all follow up appointments the care team identified they needed for optimal care and follow up. A patient highlighted the benefit that consolidated services could offer for continuity of care by making it easier to see the same clinical team in one place: “I feel comfortable with the providers who have taken care of me, and there's like a lot of them. But sometimes, like, when you go to the clinic, it's like, OK, there's only these 2 people here. The other people are on the other side, 3 buildings away, so we can't see them today. And it's like, but I would like to see them because they know me, and following up with that level of comfort with someone who's new, knew my story from the minute I arrived to this point. Those are the people that I wanna follow up with, you know.” Heart transplant patient, living with disability Impact on low income people and Medicaid insured patients Another key theme among community members was the financial burden of transportation, specifically related to parking and loss of income when multiple appointments led to missing full days of work. Participants described the exorbitant parking fees they incurred when attending their appointments at the Transplant Institute. One patient described the expense she faced when having to move her car between appointments and pay a second time for parking within the same day when visiting two Page 19 of 26 different locations. A community leader highlighted the impact traveling to multiple locations can have on low income patients who may lose a day of work as a result of such lengthy days attending appointments, “In asking folks who may be on the lower end of the income spectrum to go to multiple locations, you know, if back to work, that means losing money, you know, losing out on a day’s worth of work.” One of the hospital’s social worker explained how Medicaid transport will only pick up and drop off at one location, creating a difficult situation of appointments in multiple buildings: “So for social work, one of the big issues that we see is that when we're talking about either low income patients who use Medicaid for their transportation to get to and from appointments or patients who have any kind of disability or functionally not independent, getting to multiple sites in the same day for appointments. [It] becomes really taxing with Medicaid, well, they need to pick you up and drop you off at the same place, so that logistically becomes an issue. People who are functionally unable to get to multiple buildings often come to us with hardship especially if they don't have somebody to like wheel them in a wheelchair to and from different buildings in the city.” The consolidation of services would mitigate this issue since only one stop would be needed to attend appointments. Impact on People with Limited English Proficiency Several community members identified that consolidating services into one location would make it less cumbersome to ensure interpretation needs are met at each appointment. As one community leader pointed out, for non English speakers, having to see four different specialists in four different locations and coordinating an interpreter for support at each is cumbersome, but if all services are in one place, only one interpreter would be needed on one day, which is less coordination for the facility. This also means the patient would not be waiting on care because an interpreter has not yet arrived to the appointment. A Peruvian immigrant who identified that she understands English but shared that she met several people going through the transplant process who did not speak or understand English described how hard it is for families of patients with a language barrier to move from one room to another or one building to another for multiple appointments. She felt that consolidating services into one place would “help a lot of families to feel more comfortable and confident in the place.” A social worker similarly discussed the difficulties trying to navigate multiple locations around the city for non English speakers: “And then with the language piece like, if you're not either used to navigating the city, or you don't speak English as a first language, just logistically, I mean, it's Page 20 of 26 hard enough for a lot of us to figure out where we're going. So having to navigate that, I think, becomes pretty daunting.” Social worker Other community members spoke to how consolidating services would help ease the challenge of navigating New York City for those not familiar with the city, those with language barriers, and those who have just arrived in the US. “It’s a bit confusing because you have to go to a bunch of different places. If you had one location where everything was, it would help. Once I know the location, I won’t forget but each time I have to make sure I have the right address and have it correctly plugged into Google maps, not knowing the streets of Manhattan. People not from the US would have an extra challenge going through this gauntlet of different offices.” Living donor A community leader noted that following their transplant some patients come into Manhattan from out of state or Upstate New York and don't “have the local knowledge of what it means to travel in New York City. How much it costs to do so if you don't have your own transportation.” There was no indication that there would be any additional burden on a particular group impacted by this project. 12. Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. The only medically underserved group we were unable to reach is members of the uninsured population. There were no uninsured individuals available for engagement in this portion of the assessment. According to the Transplant Institute, this is due to their efforts around getting their patients insured. The Transplant Institute focuses on getting their patients insured both for the transplant procedure itself and for the lifelong care and immunosuppression medications they will require. They partner with New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) to assist undocumented patients with identifying pathways to citizenship and insurance. They also have a team of transplant financial counselors that work one on one with patients on securing not only insurance but the right plan to meet their medical needs. STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a. People of limited English speaking ability b. People with speech, hearing, or visual impairments Page 21 of 26 c. If the Applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? Information provided by the Applicant indicates that they will communicate its services and care options to the community by utilizing a standard, multi pronged advertising/communication plan. For individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant will translate relevant materials such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage. There will be signage at the current locations in English and Spanish announcing the move, a letter in English and Spanish will be sent to patients, and clinic staff will also be communicating the details of this move at patient appointments well before it takes effect. Current clinic staff will also alert patients as they call for appointment and when they are at their appointments in the current clinic prior to the move. The Applicant advertising/communication plan will also include outreach to specific publications that target individuals who speak a language other than English. The website will be updated with messaging about the move, and there will be social media posts as well. (Note that these are mainly in English.) Regarding individuals who have speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant uses digital best practices for accessibility that are informed by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2, the industry standard to ensure users with disabilities (such as vision, cognitive/learning, and/or motor disabilities) can access content equitably. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Stakeholders had the following specific suggestions for how to better meet their needs as they considered the impact of consolidating transplant services: • Have labs done at the same centralized location. Some patients explained that if blood lab work is not get reported in time for their appointments, and the doctor is unable to make informed plans or decision making without the report. Either through centralizing the labs or some other mechanism, the reports could get to the doctors in time for the scheduled appointment. • Ensure rooms are large enough to accommodate wheelchairs. One patient reported they had to leave their wheelchair outside the doctor’s office as it could not fit through the door. The proposed new space should have doorways large enough for wheelchairs to pass through the space. As stated, the alterations of the new single location will adhere to the Accessibility Chapter (Chapter 11) of the New York City Building Code. Per Chapter 11; sites, buildings, structures, facilities, elements, and spaces shall be designed and constructed to be Page 22 of 26 accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with ICC A117.1 and the New York City Building Code. • Provide a bigger waiting room to ensure social distancing is feasible. The waiting room should be large enough that immunocompromised people can safely social distance and not used as a multi purpose space (e.g., education classes, etc.), which does not easily allow for social distancing. • Provide assistance with parking at the one location where all services will be received. 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The diverse group of individuals who participated in the interviews and community conversation as part of the meaningful engagement portion of this assessment would be an excellent group to return to for future inputs. Ideally patients should be contacted approximately 6 9 months after the consolidation of services takes place. This would allow them to have received services for their follow up visits under the new model on several occasions. They could then speak to the impact of the project and be consulted on any potential improvements. We propose interviews, so you can get nuanced information about the impact and potential improvements. We also would propose a patient survey at the same time interval to capture perspectives about the relocation and consolidation across the Transplant Institute’s patients. 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? The project addresses several systemic barriers to equitable access to services and care that were identified by stakeholders during our meaningful engagement work for this assessment. Overall, consolidating services to one location eases mobility issues experienced by older people, people with disabilities, and/or people with limiting health conditions (e.g., wheelchair use, fatigue, pain, brain fog, oxygen tanks, etc.). Moreover, it limits issues of parking or transportation for low income and Medicaid insured patients. The proposed consolidation eases the burdens of people with Limited English Proficiency needing multiple translators across multiple appointments instead of one translator or having to navigate New York City. Lastly, by consolidating services, it provides a more calming experience for patients, living donors, and care partners by removing one worry among everything else that are facing. That said, the patient interviews and survey should also ask questions that could reveal additional systemic barriers that the Applicant could address. Page 23 of 26 STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the Transplant Institute and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnic background, gender/gender identity, age group, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. NYULH plan to leverage this dashboard and data, as it does throughout its various projects, to reveal and address inequities and disparities. There are existing metrics that are and should continue to being measured and assessed along each step of the donor and transplant process related to possible inequities and disparities, such as number of transplants, time on waitlists, waitlist mortality rate, and one year survival rates. To oversee departmental initiatives aimed at reducing health disparities and increasing health equity, the department appointed a Vice Chair of Diversity and Health Equity in Surgery and the Transplant Institute. The department also recently expanded the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program. This program aims to: • Provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to people of Latino ancestry who are experiencing liver malignancies and end stage liver disease (ESLD), • Address current disparities in the health care system with regards to access and quality care for minoritized populations, and • Become a premier liver transplant program that provides cutting edge, optimum health care tailored to the needs of the Latino/a/x Hispanic people suffering from liver malignancies and ESLD. Many of the patients evaluated through the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program access the transplant services that will be relocated in the proposed project. Accordingly, the NYU Langone Health Latino Liver Transplant Program provides another structured mechanism through which the department can continuously monitor the impact of its efforts on the health outcomes of patients from medically underserved groups. Page 24 of 26 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant might consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the state, the Applicant can re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and NYS are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant may also consider continuously engaging with patients engaged in this process and community groups to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. This will help ensure the success of this project and inform future projects of a similar nature. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max)


1/6/2022 Memo Sent via RED+F Vendor Notice on 01/14/2022In light of updated NYULH and CDC guidelines, we’ve updated the COVID isolation and quarantine recommendations for RED+F construction contractors personnel based on current NYULH requirements, NYS DOH and CDC guidelines. Note: all NYULH RED+F contractors are required to be vaccinated if working on site. 1.If someone (regardless of vaccination status)a.is experiencing COVID symptoms (defined as loss of taste or smell OR two or more of the followingsymptoms: nasal congestion/runny nose, fever, cough, muscle aches, chills, and sore throat) ORb.reports any positive diagnostic COVID test (antigen or PCR), they shall isolate as indicated below.i.Isolate until all of the conditions below have been met:1.at least 5 days since symptoms onset or since date of the sample collection for the firstpositive test AND2.at least 72 hours with no fever without the use of fever reducing medicationsAND3.symptoms are improving (including rhinorrhea or runny nose)c.Once all the isolation requirements as listed in item (b) above have been met, they may return to workno earlier than day six wearing a tight fitting mask which covers the nose and mouth indoors at all timesin accordance with NYULH requirements. If working in a clinical location where patients may bepresent, the tight fitting mask shall be a fit tested N95 respirator worn in accordance with theContractor’s compliant OSHA Respiratory Protection Program. In non‐clinical locations, examples ofacceptable tight fitting face masks without gaps include a KN95 or other similar mask with good fittingcharacteristics, (e.g. a nose wire and a snug fit around the face, nose and mouth). Note: gaiters andbandanas are not approved face masks at any NYULH location.2.If a fully vaccinated* individual has been exposed** to someone with COVID and is asymptomatic (i.e.experiencing no symptoms), the following is required:a.The individual may remain at work and must wear a tight fitting mask which covers the nose and mouthindoors at all times in accordance with NYULH requirements. If working in a clinical location wherepatients may be present, the tight fitting mask shall be a fit tested N95 respirator worn in accordancewith the Contractor’s compliant OSHA Respiratory Protection Program Standard. In non‐clinicallocations, examples of acceptable tight fitting face masks without gaps include a KN95 or other similarmask with good fitting characteristics, (e.g. a nose wire and a snug fit around the face, nose and mouth).Note: gaiters and bandanas are not approved face masks at any NYULH location.b.They shall self‐monitor for symptoms daily.c.If at any time, they test positive OR develop COVID symptoms as defined in item 1 above, they mustfollow the instructions in item 1 above.* Completed vaccination = completion of Covid‐19 vaccine second shot in two dose series or one shot if taking Johnson& Johnson vaccine.**Exposure is defined as: Not wearing a mask for 10+ minutes when within 6 feet of an infectious individualCommunity/Household Exposure:oInformed by a public health authority of an exposureoHousehold member with confirmed Covid diagnosis or positive COVID testNYULH employees are required to follow the current HR Covid Testing Return to Work policy. Staff must keep informed and refer to the COVID 19 hub at Inside Health for information.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Use and Disclosure of PHI in the Patient Directory Policy Pursuant to the NYU Langone Health Notice of Privacy Practices, limited patient information is included in the Patient Directory. This means that NYU Langone Health may disclose Patient Directory information to persons who ask for the patient by name and to members of the Chaplaincy Services Department, unless a patient declines to be listed or as otherwise stated in this Policy. The information in the Patient Directory consists of a patient’s name, room, and bed number. All patients have the opportunity to decline to be listed. If a patient declines, the decision must be documented clearly in the patient’s medical record using the appropriate form. This Policy applies to inpatient admissions, interventional procedures at Article 28 spaces, and Emergency Departments, and is not applicable for non hospital outpatient (e.g., Faculty Group Practice) office visits. Procedure 1. Upon admission into the Hospital or Emergency Department or registration into an interventional procedure in Article 28 outpatient space, admitting staff will provide the patient with the Patient Directory Opt Out form.  In limited circumstances, such as in the case of a patient safety or increased privacy risk, a patient may verbally opt out of the Patient Directory. As soon as possible thereafter, Patient Access will seek completion of the form. 2. Admitting Workforce Members are responsible for scanning the completed form or entering the information into the patient’s medical record. 3. Workforce Members must refer all requests for Patient Directory information to the departments that are authorized and trained to provide Patient Directory information. 4. The patient has the right to change his or her decision to be listed in the Patient Directory at any time by notifying the Patient Access (Admitting) Department via email to regcorrect@nyulangone.org or by phone at 212 263 5005 for NYU Langone Health main Page 2 of 3 campus (i.e., Tisch, Kimmel, Orthopedic Hospital), at 718 630 6233 for NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, or at 516 663 2526 for NYU Hospital Long Island Emergency Circumstances In some cases, it may not be possible to allow the patient the opportunity to opt out of the Patient Directory because the patient is incapacitated or in need of emergency treatment when they arrive at the hospital. This may occur, for example, if the patient is unconscious when first brought to the Emergency Department. It may also occur if the patient is conscious and capable of making a decision, but is so seriously injured that asking permission to include his or her information in the Patient Directory would delay treatment in a way that would jeopardize the patient’s health. In such emergency situations, the patient’s name, room, and bed number may be disclosed to persons who ask for the patient by name if a hospital staff member responsible for the patient’s care determines that disclosure is in the patient’s best interest and is consistent with any prior information NYU Langone Health has about the patient’s preferences. • In some cases, it will not be appropriate to disclose certain pieces of information (such as the patient’s location in the hospital), in order to protect the patient’s interests. • When deciding what information, if any, may be disclosed, the following factors should be considered:  whether disclosing that the patient is in the hospital could cause harm or danger to the patient (e.g. disclosing information to a potential attacker).  whether disclosing a patient’s location within the hospital would give information about the patient’s condition (for example, if the room number revealed that the patient was in a psychiatric ward).  whether it is necessary or appropriate to give information about the patient’s status to family or friends (for example, if necessary to find out if the patient’s family know more about his or her condition or prior history because the patient is unconscious).  whether the patient has previously expressed a preference about how information should be used in the Patient Directory. If the patient’s Personal Representative has not completed the registration process on behalf of the patient while incapacitated or during an emergency, as soon as possible after the patient’s incapacity or emergency treatment is over, the procedures described above for ordinary circumstances must be followed. The patient (or Personal Representative) must be informed of this policy and given an opportunity to decline to be listed in the Patient Directory. Inpatient Psychiatric Unit Admissions Admissions to the inpatient psychiatric unit on HCC 10 (Tisch Hospital) and 5D (NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn) are not subject to the Patient Directory opt out. In order to further protect patient privacy and given that location on the floor could indicate sensitive treatment, NYU Langone Health has taken the position to automatically opt out all patients admitted to an inpatient psychiatric unit (e.g., HCC 10, 5D) from the Patient Directory. Patients are permitted to opt into the Patient Directory by completing the HCC 10/5D Patient Directory Opt In form during the admission process. Page 3 of 3 Related Documents General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HCC 10/5D Patient Directory Opt In form HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Patient Directory Opt Out form Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.510(a) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


USE OF CLINICAL MATERIALS CONSENT FORM We Work Floor 4, 120 West Trinity Place | Decatur, GA 30030 | P: 404.320.1472 | acpe@acpe.edu This form must be reviewed and signed by the CPE student prior to formal admission to an ACPE accredited CPE program and at the start of each subsequent unit in which the student enrolls. CPE students shall be informed prior to acceptance into the program, as well as at the start of each subsequent unit, that their clinical materials and recorded and/or live observation media that are pertinent to the certification processes for Certified Educator Candidates or Associate ACPE Certified Educators, that are pertinent to the peer review process for ACPE Certified Educators, that are pertinent to a center’s accreditation process, or that are pertinent to ACPE approved research studies, may be used from the unit. All identifying information shall be redacted from written documents. A copy of this signed agreement shall remain a part of the center’s files indefinitely. Materials that are not supported with this signed Consent Form MAY NOT BE USED. I, ____________________________________________ understand that ____________________________________________________________________ Students’ Printed Name Certified Educator Candidate/Associate ACPE Certified Educator/ACPE Certified Educator will use my written evaluation, the above named educator’s written evaluation of me, and other clinical materials pertinent to the above named educator’s process toward certification as an ACPE Certified Educator or as part of the above named educator’s peer review process, and I understand that such materials will have personal information redacted. I understand that the above named educator will use recorded and/or live observation media that are pertinent to the above named educator’s process toward certification as an ACPE Certified Educator or as part of the above named educator’s peer review process, and I understand that such media may identify me. I understand that this use is for the purpose of the above named educator’s professional development, certification, and/or peer review. I understand that my written materials and live/recorded observation media that may identify me may be read, heard, viewed, and discussed by the above named educator’s professional colleagues as they assess the above named educator’s professional development and competence as an ACPE Certified Educator. I understand that my clinical materials may be utilized by my center as data for demonstrating compliance with ACPE Standards for accreditation and/or for ACPE approved research studies without further notification to me. My signature grants consent to all of the above. I understand that I may revoke this authorization, in writing, to the above named individual and that if I choose to do this, I will no longer be able to participate in the unit of CPE and will not receive credit for the unit. Any clinical materials and/or live/recorded observation media obtained prior to the revocation of this authorization may still be used by the above named educator. ____________________________________________________________ __________________________ Student’s Signature Date ___________________________________________________________________________ Start and End Dates of the Unit


Vital Statistics Rapid Release Report No. 012  May 2021Births: Provisional Data for 2020Brady E. Hamilton, Ph.D., Joyce A. Martin, M.P.H., and Michelle J.K. Osterman, M.H.S.,Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health StatisticsU.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System NCHS reports can be downloaded from: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/index.htm.AbstractObjectives—This report presents provisional 2020 data on U.S. births. Births are shown by age and race and Hispanic origin of mother. Data on cesarean delivery and preterm births also are presented.Methods—Data are based on 99. of all 2020 birth records received and processed by the National Center for Health Statistics as of February 11, 2021. Comparisons are made with final 2019 data and earlier years.Results—The provisional number of births for the United States in 2020 was 3,605,201, down from 2019. The general fertility rate was 55.8 births per 1,000 women aged 15 44, down from 2019 to reach another record low for the United States. The total fertility rate was 1,637.5 births per 1,000 women in 2020, down from 2019 to also reach another record low for the nation. In 2020, birth rates declined for women in all age groups 15 44 and were unchanged for adolescents aged 10 14 and women aged 45 49. The birth rate for teenagers aged 15 19 declined by in 2020 to 15.3 births per 1,000 females; rates declined for both younger (aged 15 17) and older (aged 18 19) teenagers. The cesarean delivery rate rose to 31. in 2020; the low risk cesarean delivery rate increased to 25.. The preterm birth rate declined to 10. in 2020, the first decline in the rate since 2014.Keywords: birth rates • maternal and infant health • vital statistics • National Vital Statistics SystemIntroductionThis report from the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) is part of the National Vital Statistics System Rapid Release Quarterly Provisional Estimates. This series provides timely vital statistics for public health surveillance based on provisional data received and processed by NCHS as of a specified date. Estimates (quarterly and 12 month period ending with each quarter) for selected key vital statistics indicators are presented and released online through Quarterly Provisional Estimates ( https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/natality dashboard.htm). The series also includes reports that provide additional information on specific topics to help readers understand and interpret provisional natality and mortality data. Also, now available are provisional birth estimates developed to monitor health services utilization and maternal and infant outcomes that may be directly or indirectly impacted by COVID 19. Information is updated quarterly and is available from: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/covid19/covid birth.htm.Using provisional birth data for the 12 months of 2020 (1), this report supplements the Quarterly Provisional Estimates for 2020 by presenting longer temporal trends in context and more detail (by race and Hispanic origin of the mother and by state of residence). Statistics from previous provisional reports have been shown to be consistent with the final statistics for the year (2,3). This report presents provisional data on births and birth rates and cesarean delivery and preterm birth rates for the United States in 2020. Information on prenatal care, low birthweight, and other health utilization and maternal and infant risk factors is presented with final birth data for 2020.MethodsThe provisional estimates shown in this report are collected via the National Vital Statistics System (4). Findings are based on all birth records received and processed by NCHS for calendar year 2020 as of February 11, 2021; these records represent nearly (99.) of registered births occurring in 2020. Comparisons in this report are based on the final data for 2019 and earlier years (3). Data for American Samoa, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands were not available as of the release of the 2020 provisional birth file. Detailed information on reporting completeness and criteria may be found elsewhere (4,5).Hispanic origin and race are reported separately on the birth certificate. Data shown by Hispanic origin include all persons of Hispanic origin of any race. Data for non Hispanic persons are shown separately for each single race group. Data by race are based on the revised standards issued by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in 1997 (6). The race and Hispanic origin groups shown are: non Hispanic, single race white; non Hispanic, single race black; non Hispanic, single race American Indian or Alaska Native (AIAN); non Hispanic, single race Asian; non Hispanic, single race Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (NHOPI); and Hispanic. For brevity, text references to race omit the term “single race” (3).U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System2Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportBirth and fertility rates for the United States and by maternal race and Hispanic origin for 2020 were based on population estimates derived from the 2010 census as of July 1, 2020 (7).Changes and differences presented in this report are statistically significant at the 0.05 level, unless noted otherwise. For information and discussion on computing rates and percentages and for detailed information on items presented in this report, see “User Guide to the 2019 Natality Public Use File” (4).Beginning with Quarterly Provisional Estimates for Quarter 3, 2020, the use of record weights for provisional birth data was discontinued (1,5). This change was implemented because of the recent high levels of completeness of provisional birth data; the change in weighting had limited, if any, impact on the provisional birth estimates. Data shown in this report are based directly on the counts of all (unweighted) birth records received and processed by NCHS as of February 11, 2021.ResultsBirths and birth ratesKey findings, illustrated in Tables 1 3 and Figures 1 and 2, show:■The provisional number of birthsfor the United States in 2020 was3,605,201, down from the numberin 2019 (3,747,540) (Tables 1 3 andFigure 1). This is the sixth consecutiveyear that the number of births hasdeclined after an increase in 2014,down an average of per year, andthe lowest number of births since 1979(3,8,9).■From 2019 to 2020, the provisionalnumber of births declined forHispanic women, for non Hispanicwhite and non Hispanic black women, for non Hispanic AIAN women,and for non Hispanic Asian women(Tables 2 and 3). The decline inthe number of births for non HispanicNHOPI women was not significant.■The provisional general fertility rate(GFR) for the United States in 2020was 55.8 births per 1,000 women aged15 44, down from the rate in 2019(58.3), another record low for the nation(Tables 1 and 2 and Figure 1) (3,8,9).From 2014 to 2020, the GFR declinedby an average of per year.■GFRs declined for each of therace and Hispanic origin groupsfrom 2019 to 2020, down fornon Hispanic NHOPI women; fornon Hispanic white, non Hispanicblack, and Hispanic women; fornon Hispanic AIAN women; and for non Hispanic Asian women.Figure 2. Birth rates for teenagers, by age of mother: United States, final 1991 2019 and provisional 2020SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality. Figure 1. Number of live births and general fertility rates: United States, final 1990 2019 and provisional 2020SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System3Vital Statistics Surveillance Report ■The provisional total fertility rate (TFR) for the United States in 2020 was 1,637.5 births per 1,000 women, down from the rate in 2019 (1,706.0), another record low for the nation (3,9,10). The TFR estimates the number of births that a hypothetical group of 1,000 women would have over their lifetimes, based on the age specific birth rate in a given year. ■The TFR in 2020 was again below replacement—the level at which a given generation can exactly replace itself (2,100 births per 1,000 women). The rate has generally been below replacement since 1971 and has consistently been below replacement since 2007 (3,8,9).Maternal age ■Provisional birth rates declined for women in all age groups 15 44 from 2019 to 2020 and were unchanged for adolescents aged 10 14 and women aged 45 49 (Table 1). ■The provisional birth rate for teenagers in 2020 was 15.3 births per 1,000 females aged 15 19, down from 2019 (16.7), reaching another record low for this age group (Table 1 and Figure 2) (3,8 10). The rate has declined by since 2007 (41.5), the most recent period of continued decline, and since 1991, the most recent peak. The rate declined an average of annually from 2007 to 2020 (3,8). The number of births to females aged 15 19 was 157,548 in 2020 (Table 1), down from 2019 (3,8 10). ■The provisional birth rates for teenagers aged 15 17 and 18 19 in 2020 were 6.3 and 28.8 births, respectively, down by and from 2019, again reaching record lows for both groups (3,8 10). From 2007 to 2020, the rates for teenagers aged 15 17 and 18 19 declined by and per year, respectively (3,8). ■The provisional birth rate for females aged 10 14 was 0.2 births per 1,000 in 2020, unchanged since 2015. ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 20 24 in 2020 was 62.8 births per 1,000 women, down from 2019 (66.6), reaching yet another record low for this age group (Table 1) (3,8,9). This rate has declined by since 2007. The number of births to women in their early 20s also declined by from 2019 to 2020 (Table 1). ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 25 29 was 90.0 births per 1,000 women, down from 2019 (93.7), reaching another record low for this age group (3,8,9). The number of births to women in their late 20s declined from 2019 to 2020. ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 30 34 in 2020 was 94.8 births per 1,000 women, down from 2019 (98.3) (Table 1) (3,8,9). The number of births to women in this age group declined by from 2019 to 2020. ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 35 39 was 51.7 births per 1,000 women, down from 2019 (52.8). The number of births to women in this age group declined by from 2019 to 2020. ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 40 44 in 2020 was 11.8 births per 1,000 women, down from 2019 (12.0). The rate for this age group had risen almost continuously from 1985 to 2019, by an average of per year (3,8). The number of births to these women was essentially unchanged from 2019 to 2020. ■The provisional birth rate for women aged 45 49 (which includes births to women aged 50 and over) was 0.9 births per 1,000 women, unchanged since 2015. However, the number of births to women in this age group declined from 2019 to 2020 (Table 1).Maternal and infant health characteristicsKey findings, illustrated in Tables 3 and 4 and Figure 3, show:Cesarean delivery ■In 2020, the overall cesarean delivery rate increased to 31. from 31. in 2019 (Tables 3 and 4); despite this increase, the rate had generally declined from 2009 (32.) to 2019 (3). See Table 4 for state specific rates. ■From 2019 to 2020, cesarean delivery rates increased for non Hispanic white (30. to 30.), non Hispanic black (35. to 36.), non Hispanic NHOPI (30. to 32.), and Hispanic (31. to 31.) women; declines in rates for non Hispanic AIAN (28. to 28. ) and non Hispanic Asian (32. to 32.) women were not statistically significant. ■The low risk cesarean delivery rate, or cesarean delivery among nulliparous (first birth), term (37 or more completed weeks based on the obstetric estimate), singleton (one fetus), vertex (head first) births, also increased in 2020, to 25. from 25. in 2019 (Table 3). ■Low risk cesarean rates increased from 2019 to 2020 for non Hispanic white (24. to 24.), non Hispanic black (30. to 30.), non Hispanic NHOPI (26. to 29.), and Hispanic (24. to 25.) women; increases for non Hispanic AIAN (22. to 23.) and non Hispanic Asian (27. to 27.) women were not significant.Preterm birth ■The preterm birth rate declined to 10. in 2020 from 10. in 2019 (Table 3 and Figure 3), the first decline in this rate since 2014. The percentage of infants born preterm (births at less than 37 completed weeks of gestation) fell from 2007 (the most recent year for which national data are available based on the obstetric estimate of gestation [11]) to 2014, then rose from 2014 (9.) to 2019 (3). See Table 4 for state specific rates.U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System4Vital Statistics Surveillance Report ■Declines were observed in both early preterm (less than 34 completed weeks of gestation) and late preterm births (34 36 weeks) from 2019 to 2020 (Table 3). The early preterm rate declined from 2. to 2., the lowest level reported since at least 2007 (11). The late preterm rate declined from 7. to 7. (Figure 3). ■The preterm birth rate declined among births to non Hispanic Asian women (8. to 8.), among non Hispanic white women (9. to 9.), and among Hispanic women (9. to 9.) from 2019 to 2020; changes for births to non Hispanic AIAN (11. to 11.), non Hispanic black (14. to 14.), and non Hispanic NHOPI (11. to 11.) women were not significant. ■Late preterm births declined among non Hispanic Asian (6. to 6.) and non Hispanic white mothers (6. to 6.), but changes for non Hispanic black (9. to 9.), non Hispanic AIAN (8. to 8.), non Hispanic NHOPI (8. to 8.), and Hispanic (7. to 7.) mothers were not significant. Early preterm births were down for the three largest race and Hispanic origin groups (non Hispanic white, non Hispanic black, and Hispanic), but were not significantly changed for the others (Table 3).References1. Driscoll AK, Osterman MJK, Hamilton BE, Martin JA. Quarterly provisional estimates for selected birth indicators, 2018 Quarter 4, 2020. National Center for Health Statistics. National Vital Statistics System, Vital Statistics Rapid Release Program. 2021. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/natality.htm.2. Hamilton BE, Martin JA, Osterman MJK. Births: Provisional data for 2019. Vital Statistics Rapid Release; no 8. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. May 2020. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/vsrr/vsrr 8 508.pdf. Figure 3. Preterm birth rates: United States, final 2007 2019 and provisional 2020NOTE: Percentages may not add to totals due to rounding.SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System5Vital Statistics Surveillance Report3.Martin JA, Hamilton BE, OstermanMJK, Driscoll AK. Births: Final datafor 2019. National Vital StatisticsReports; vol 70 no 2. Hyattsville,MD: National Center for HealthStatistics. 2021. DOI: https://dx.doi.org/10.15620/cdc:100472.4.National Center for Health Statistics.User guide to the 2019 natalitypublic use file. Available from:ftp://ftp.cdc.gov/pub/Health_Statistics/NCHS/Dataset_Documentation/DVS/natality/UserGuide2019 508.pdf.5.National Center for Health Statistics.Quarterly Provisional Estimates—Technical Notes—Natality, Quarter4, 2020. Available from:https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/nvss/vsrr/natality technical notes.htm.6.Office of Management and Budget.Revisions to the standards forthe classification of federal dataon race and ethnicity. Fed Regist62(210):58782 90. 1997. Available from: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR 1997 10 30/pdf/97 28653.pdf.7.United States Census Bureau.2019 monthly national populationestimates by age, sex, race, Hispanicorigin, and population universe forthe United States: April 1, 2010 toDecember 1, 2020 (NC EST2019 ALLDATA). Monthly postcensalresident population. Available from:https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time series/demo/popest/2010s national detail.html.8.Martin JA, Hamilton BE, OstermanMJK, Driscoll AK, Mathews TJ.Births: Final data for 2015. NationalVital Statistics Reports; vol 66 no1. Hyattsville, MD: National Centerfor Health Statistics. 2017. Availablefrom: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr66/nvsr66_01.pdf.9.National Center for Health Statistics.Vital statistics of the United States,2003, Volume I, Natality. 2003.Available from:https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/vsus/vsus_1980_2003.htm.10. Ventura SJ, Hamilton BE, MathewsTJ. National and state patterns ofteen births in the United States,1940 2013. National Vital StatisticsReports; vol 63 no 4. Hyattsville,MD: National Center for HealthStatistics. 2014. Available from:https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr63/nvsr63_04.pdf.11. Martin JA, Osterman MJK,Kirmeyer SE, Gregory ECW.Measuring gestational age in vitalstatistics data: Transitioning to theobstetric estimate. National VitalStatistics Reports; vol 64 no 5.Hyattsville, MD: National Centerfor Health Statistics. 2015. Availablefrom: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr64/nvsr64_05.pdf.List of Detailed TablesReport tables1. Births and birth rates, by age ofmother: United States, final 2019 andprovisional 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62. Total number of births and generalfertility rates, by race and Hispanic origin of mother: United States, final 2019 and provisional 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . 73. Total number of births and percentages of cesarean delivery and pretermbirths, by race and Hispanic origin ofmother: United States, final 2019 andprovisional 2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84. Total number of births, by state ofresidence, provisional 2020, and percentages of cesarean delivery and preterm births, by state of residence: United States, each state and territory, final 2019 and provisional 2020 . . . . . . . 9U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System6Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportTable 1. Births and birth rates, by age of mother: United States, final 2019 and provisional 2020[Data for 2020 were based on a continuous file of records received from the states. Rates were per 1,000 women in specified age group. Rates for all ages were the total number of births (regardless of the age of the mother) per 1,000 women aged 15 44. Populations estimated as of July 1]Age of mother20202019NumberRateNumberRateAll ages3,605,20155.83,747,54058.310 141,7650.21,7870.215 19157,54815.3171,67416.715 1738,4596.341,0816.718 19119,08928.8130,59331.120 24663,73262.8704,34266.625 291,022,03390.01,078,09793.730 341,067,79894.81,089,28198.335 39562,83351.7572,59852.840 44120,27811.8120,15212.045 5419,2140.99,6090.91The birth rate for women in this age group was computed by relating the number of births to women aged 45 and over to women aged 45 49 because most of the births in this group were to women aged 45 49.SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality.U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System7Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportTable 2. Total number of births and general fertility rates, by race and Hispanic origin of mother: United States, final 2019 and provisional 2020[Data for 2020 were based on a continuous file of records received from the states. Rates were the total number of births (regardless of the age of the mother) per 1,000 women aged 15 44 in specified race and Hispanic origin group. Populations estimated as of July 1]YearAll races and origins1Non Hispanic, single raceHispanic3White2Black2American Indian or Alaska Native2Asian2Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander2Number20203,605,2011,839,565528,44826,638218,8609,612863,94920193,747,5401,915,912548,07528,450238,7699,770886,467Rate202055.853.259.052.450.172.662.8201958.355.361.456.255.374.965.31Includes births to race and origin groups not shown separately, such as Hispanic white, Hispanic black, and non Hispanic multiple race women, and births with origin not stated.2Race and Hispanic origin are reported separately on birth certificates. Persons of Hispanic origin may be of any race. In this table, non Hispanic women are classified by race. Race categories are consistent with the 1997 Office of Management and Budget standards. Race categories in this table include only single race; that is, the race reported alone with only one race reported.3Includes all persons of Hispanic origin of any race.SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System8Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportTable 3. Total number of births and percentages of cesarean delivery and preterm births, by race and Hispanic origin of mother: United States, final 2019 and provisional 2020[Data for 2020 were based on a continuous file of records received from the states]CharacteristicAll races and origins1Non Hispanic, single raceWhite2Black2American Indian or Alaska Native2Asian2Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander2Hispanic3Number of births20203,605,201 1,839,565 528,448 26,638 218,860 9,612 863,949 20193,747,540 1,915,912 548,075 28,450 238,769 9,770 886,467 Cesarean deliveryPercentTotal4:202031.830.836.328.832.632.331.4201931.730.735.928.932.730.231.3Low risk5:202025.924.930.623.627.729.125.2201925.624.730.022.827.426.124.8Gestational age6Preterm (under 37 weeks):202010.099.1014.3511.578.511.989.83201910.239.2614.3911.598.7211.159.97Late preterm (34 36 weeks):20207.396.909.548.556.428.937.3220197.466.999.458.696.598.257.36Early preterm (under 34 weeks):20202.692.204.813.032.083.052.5120192.772.274.942.902.132.902.611Includes births to race and origin groups not shown separately, such as Hispanic white, Hispanic black, and non Hispanic multiple race women, and births with origin not stated. 2Race and Hispanic origin are reported separately on birth certificates. Persons of Hispanic origin may be of any race. In this table, non Hispanic women are classified by race. Race categories are consistent with the 1997 Office of Management and Budget standards. Race categories in this table include only single race; that is, the race reported alone with only one race reported. 3Includes all persons of Hispanic origin of any race. 4All births by cesarean delivery per 100 live births. 5Low risk cesarean was defined as singleton, term (37 or more weeks of gestation based on obstetric estimate), vertex (not breech), cesarean deliveries to women having a first birth per 100 women delivering singleton, term, vertex first births. 6Completed weeks of gestation based on the obstetric estimate.SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality.U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System9Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportTable 4. Total number of births, by state of residence, provisional 2020, and percentages of cesarean delivery and preterm births, by state of residence: United States, each state and territory, final 2019 and provisional 2020[By place of residence. Data were based on a continuous file of records received from the states]AreaTotal number of births, 2020Total cesareanLow risk cesarean1Late preterm2Preterm320202019202020192020201920202019PercentUnited States4 3,605,20131.831.725.925.67.397.4610.0910.23Alabama 57,63435.034.629.028.49.408.9912.9012.48Alaska 9,44722.921.618.217.17.337.399.739.72Arizona 76,92328.427.822.821.97.136.999.489.37Arkansas 35,21033.834.526.527.78.568.7311.7611.93California 419,61230.530.824.023.86.516.628.768.95Colorado 61,49327.226.822.721.46.657.149.159.55Connecticut 33,44834.134.627.928.96.626.749.179.37Delaware 10,33631.831.524.924.47.487.4110.3510.70District of Columbia 8,85832.331.927.828.06.987.329.8110.41Florida 209,61235.936.528.729.67.647.6110.4710.62Georgia 122,26633.934.327.728.28.188.3411.4111.69Hawaii 15,73026.426.823.023.17.567.7510.0610.57Idaho 21,52023.624.018.019.06.196.698.458.77Illinois 133,20730.830.624.724.77.637.8710.3210.70Indiana 78,08730.129.324.523.07.667.4410.4410.15Iowa 36,08030.229.624.823.67.546.899.909.48Kansas 34,36030.229.724.624.37.387.419.9710.10Kentucky 51,58134.333.627.726.88.328.3711.0411.30Louisiana 57,07036.836.729.428.59.339.6012.8713.12Maine 11,53229.730.223.525.36.876.698.999.02Maryland 68,52333.733.028.727.67.297.3210.1210.28Massachusetts 66,42932.431.426.524.86.496.638.778.98Michigan 103,84632.532.027.426.57.407.3410.2310.27Minnesota 63,38728.527.624.723.86.826.859.119.26Mississippi 35,45738.238.530.930.710.2710.3514.2014.58Missouri 69,23829.330.123.023.98.177.9410.9810.87Montana 10,78527.628.421.723.27.357.589.829.61Nebraska 24,23528.829.121.421.27.857.8410.4910.49Nevada 33,63232.932.827.226.87.867.8710.6910.67New Hampshire 11,77332.231.627.126.06.056.518.418.19New Jersey 96,54333.233.826.226.76.826.969.119.56New Mexico 21,31626.126.421.021.36.857.259.4710.15New York 209,17233.733.228.728.16.636.629.239.18North Carolina 116,67430.029.123.622.57.667.6010.8010.65North Dakota 10,05927.026.520.318.47.446.919.829.50Ohio 129,07131.331.026.325.67.517.4910.3110.51Oklahoma 47,39332.132.123.924.58.398.6411.1611.49Oregon 39,79228.828.025.023.46.136.218.198.29Pennsylvania 130,56230.630.225.425.27.027.139.579.94Rhode Island 10,10233.432.029.227.76.637.209.069.54South Carolina 55,69333.533.227.426.98.598.0911.8111.47South Dakota 10,95224.724.519.719.17.197.249.429.55Tennessee 78,65932.131.825.925.57.928.1910.9311.19Texas 365,85734.734.828.228.47.898.0610.7811.03Utah 45,70223.123.119.418.77.017.479.289.74Vermont 5,11726.925.822.720.85.656.147.638.44Virginia 94,39132.631.926.826.26.887.129.589.88Washington 83,06728.527.824.022.86.326.368.648.47West Virginia 17,15934.234.626.926.38.969.3912.0012.58Wisconsin 60,49126.726.721.721.67.387.379.9410.07Wyoming 6,11826.426.318.120.77.427.4610.059.87See footnotes at end of table.U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System10Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportTable 4. Total number of births, by state of residence, provisional 2020, and percentage of cesarean delivery and preterm births, by state of residence: United States, each state and territory, final 2019 and provisional 2020—Con.[By place of residence. Data were based on a continuous file of records received from the states]AreaTotal number of births, 2020Total cesareanLow risk cesarean1Late preterm2Preterm320202019202020192020201920202019PercentPuerto Rico 18,22848.247.045.942.28.528.8511.5911.78U.S. Virgin Islands Guam 23.0 20.6 9.16 11.51American Samoa Northern Marianas 53830.526.819.918.27.626.6010.048.65 Data not available. 1Low risk cesarean was defined as singleton, term (37 or more weeks of gestation based on obstetric estimate), vertex (not breech) cesarean deliveries to women having a first birth per 100 women delivering singleton, term, vertex first births. 2Births at 34 36 completed weeks of gestation based on the obstetric estimate. 3Births before 37 completed weeks of gestation based on the obstetric estimate. 4Excludes data for the territories.SOURCE: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Natality.U.S. Department of Health and Human Services • Centers for Disease Control and Prevention • National Center for Health Statistics • National Vital Statistics System11Vital Statistics Surveillance ReportAcknowledgmentsThis report was prepared in the Division of Vital Statistics (DVS) under the general direction of Steven Schwartz, Director; Isabelle Horon, Chief, Reproductive Statistics Branch (RSB); and Joyce A. Martin, Team Leader, RSB Birth Team. Rajesh Virkar, Chief, Information Technology Branch (ITB), and Jasmine N. Mickens, Steve J. Steimel, Annie S. Liu, and Legesse Alemu provided computer programming support and statistical tables. Jasmine N. Mickens, Steve J. Steimel, and Annie S. Liu of ITB prepared the natality file. The Registration Methods and Data Acquisition, Classification and Evaluation Branch staff of DVS evaluated the quality of and acceptance procedures for the state data files on which this report is based. Danielle M. Ely and Anne K. Driscoll of RSB provided content review.Suggested citationHamilton BE, Martin JA, Osterman MJK. Births: Provisional data for 2020. Vital Statistics Rapid Release; no 12. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. May 2021. DOI: https://doi.org/10.15620/cdc:104993.Copyright informationAll material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated.National Center for Health StatisticsBrian C. Moyer, Ph.D., DirectorAmy M. Branum, Ph.D., Acting Associate Director for ScienceDivision of Vital StatisticsSteven Schwartz, Ph.D., DirectorIsabelle Horon, Dr.P.H., Acting Associate Director for ScienceCS323449