not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. All mixing valves shall be installed with check valves on the hot and cold water lines. Ball valves must be used for manual isolation on all domestic hot and cold water systems. Butterfly valves shall be reviewed by Facilities Operations. Gate valves are not permitted unless specifically required by codes or DEP. All valves used in plumbing systems shall close bubble tight and be suitable for dead end service designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves located more than 7 feet above the finished floor, shall be provided with a chain wheel for operation from the floor. All fire protection valves installed 7 feet above floor or stair landing shall be provided with chain wheels and shall be padlocked securely in place. All valves 4” and larger shall be stainless steel or all hot and cold water. Ball valves shall be installed on piping up to 3” in size. Butterfly valves shall be installed on piping 4” and above. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Valves 1) Apollo 2) Nibco b. Butterfly Valves 1) Apollo NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 499 2024 c. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each pressurized water vessel and as required by Code. Relief valves shall meet the maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment for which it is installed. Relief valve piping shall be full sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to the floor. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Febco 3) Watts 4) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 5) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) d. Temperature Point of use Mixing Valves (under sink) 1) Leonard 2) Powers 3) Holby 4) Watts e. Master Mixing Stations / Valves Pressure and temperature gauges shall be provided downstream of mixing valve. 1) Holby 30.26. Water Supply Pumps All pumps shall be provided with premium efficiency motors. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Butterfly valves shall not be used on the pump suction. Piping and pumps shall be independently supported. All piping within 50 feet of pump shall be supported with hangers having spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance, which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Pumps shall be multi stage and a minimum of duplex design. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 500 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Aurora c. Bell & Gossett d. Gould e. Peerless f. Weinman g. US Pump Corp D. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 2 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF PLUMBING SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 501 2024 5. FIRE PROTECTION A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Fire Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, NFPA, current NYULH insurance underwriter requirements and all other applicable Codes. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, Factory Mutual Global Insurance or another insurance underwriter and all other applicable local Codes. Architectural and Engineering construction drawings shall specifically state that fire protection systems (standpipe, sprinkler and fire alarm/detection systems) and construction partitions during construction shall comply with the following: All projects: • The contractor shall provide the required fire watch for the duration of any fire protection system or rated construction partition impairment. • NYULH safety policy 120 Construction Safety Requirements • NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems • NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code Projects in New York City: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction or Demolition • Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2017 009 (or superseding bulletin) • Fire Code Chapter 14 Fire Safety during Construction, Alteration and Demolition Projects in New York State: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction • Fire Code Chapter 33 Fire Safety during Construction and Demolition Healthcare and Ambulatory Care occupancies: • NFPA 101 Life Safety Code • NFPA 241 Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations B. Design Criteria I. Buildouts shall be provided with full sprinkler protection and sprinkler systems shall be hydraulically calculated in accordance with the current City of New YorkLocal Building Code and NYC Local Fire Department requirements. II. Fire department standpipe connections shall be provided with a 2 1/2 fire hose valve and hose rack on every landing of every required stairway. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 502 2024 III. Areas without ceilings (storage, mechanical spaces, etc.) shall utilize upright sprinkler heads. IV. Areas with suspended ceilings (back of house areas, bathrooms, offices, etc.) shall utilize concealed sprinkler heads. V. Areas subject to freezing shall utilize a dry pipe sprinkler system with upright sprinkler heads. VI. Fuel Oil storage rooms shall be protected with a wet type fluorine free foam sprinkler system or as reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. VII. New and retro fitted sprinkler systems shall have at least a 1 1/2” valve connection for draining. VIII. Electrical Closets shall be provided with wet side wall sprinkler heads each with protective cages. IX. Elevator machine rooms that fall under DOH jurisdiction shall be protected by alternate means of fire suppression. This shall apply to new construction or major overhaul. X. System types (wet, dry, preaction, foam, alternatives) must be reviewed with NYU Langone project managers and also with Facilities Operations during design development. XI. Pre Action systems shall be installed in X Ray, Gamma Knife, LINAC and any other similar sensitive equipment rooms. All pre action valves shall be located on the same level as the floor they are serving. XII. Flexible sprinkler connections are allowed to be used in non New York City projects where applicable by code. Hoses shall be braided stainless steel with proper pressure rating. The flexible sprinkler connection shall be used in conjunction with an approved manufacturer ceiling mounting bracket. Mounting brackets shall be attached to a ceiling’s main tee bar support and not cross support rail members. Care shall be taken to prevent unnecessary movement which can dislodge ceiling mounting bracket when sprinkler is discharging. This may include supporting flexible sprinkler connection to building structure independent of the ceiling suspension and support system. XIII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. XIV. Specify “Stat X” for article 28 elevator machine rooms in article 28 spaces in NYC. XV. Side wall sprinkler heads are preferred in IDF and BDF technology rooms. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 503 2024 XVI. Avoid trapping sprinkler piping. Review auxiliary drain locations on shop drawings with NYULH. When required, locate drains in accessible areas and route drain piping to an approved spill location. XVII. Piping shall be painted per building codes. Piping up to flow control assemblies shall be painted red. XVIII. All sprinkler piping shall be black steel pipe. C. Equipment 1. Anchors and Inserts Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Hilti c. Philips d. Simpson Strong Tie 2. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Allen Bradley b. ASCO c. General Electric d. Gould Westinghouse 3. Motors Approved Manufacturers: a. Baldor b. General Electric c. Toshiba d. U.S. Electric 1. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 2. Piping Piping shall be painted per building codes. Piping up to flow control assemblies shall be painted red. Approved Manufacturers: a. Flanges 1) Grinnell 2) Ladish NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 504 2024 3) National Flange 4) Taylor Forge 5) Weld Bend b. Screwed Fittings 1) Central 2) Grinnell 3) Ward 3.2. Preaction Control Panel/Equipment Pre action systems shall be addressable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Simplex b. Notifier c. Kidde Fire Systems 4.3. Preaction/Dry Pipe Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Reliable b. Viking c. Victaulic 5.4. Pressure Reducing Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Cla Val b. Watts 6.5. Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. Fire Pump Controllers 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Joslyn Clark 3) Hubbell (mercury free options) b. Fire Pump Controller Automatic Transfer Switch 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Eaton 3) Russelectric c. Fire Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Patterson 3) Peerless NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 505 2024 d. Jockey Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Groundfos 3) Peerless 7.6. Standpipe System Equipment (Siamese, fire hose valves, fire hose cabinets, and racks, etc.) Approved Manufacturers: a. Badger Powhattan b. Croker c. Elkhart d. Potter Roemer 8. Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Tolco 9.7. Sprinkler Heads, Valves, Alarms, Etc. Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Reliable c. Viking 10.8. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality stickers. Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded per ASME A13.1). Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 in diameter, brass, aluminum or stainless steel with letters 2in in height. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Specify in specifications to post laminated valve tag schedules in space. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 506 2024 11.9. Tamper Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Acme b. Grinnell c. Potter (mercury free options) d. System Sensor (mercury free options) e. Viking 12.10. Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Butterfly Valves 1) Grinnell 2) Jamesbury 3) Jenkins 4) NIBCO 5) Victaulic b. Check Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Kennedy 4) Mueller 5) NIBCO 6) Victaulic c. Gate Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Jenkins 4) Kennedy 5) NIBCO 6) Walworth 13. Vibration Isolators Approved Manufacturers: a. Amber Booth b. Korfund Dynamics Corp. c. Mason Industries d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings & Controls 14.11. Water Flow Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Potter Electric Signal Company (mercury free options) b. System Sensor NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 507 2024 15.12. Water Proof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Thunderline Corp. “Link Seal” D. Cost Saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 2 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF FIRE PROTECTION SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 508 2024 6. FIRE ALARM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Fire Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, NFPA, and all other applicable Codes. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Fire Department, and all other applicable local Codes. B. Design Criteria I. The following buildings at the Manhattan main campus have their separate respective EST3 fire alarm systems: a. Tisch Hospital b. Smilow Research Center c. Medical Science Building/Alumni Hall and Coles d. Schwartz Health Care Center e. 660 First Avenue f. 545 First Avenue II. All audibles and strobes shall be synced. III. Chimes shall be installed in all sensitive areas in lieu of tones/horns. Sensitive areas include Operating Rooms, NICU, Anesthesiology, and Pre Surgical. Contact Facilities Operations prior to designing in sensitive areas. Contractor shall obtain waiver if chimes are used in lieu of tones/horns. IV. For Operating Rooms: a. During a detected fire/smoke alarm, only the fan/unit serving the Operating Room which the alarm was generated at shall shut down. All other operating room fans shall stay operational. In NYC, Ffor central AHU systems a variance is required to be filed with the FDNY and DOB and shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. V. Newly installed smoke heads shall stay covered until completion of project. No more that dirty heads shall be accepted upon project completion. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. C. Equipment 1. Fire Alarm System Approved Manufacturers (no substitutes): a. Edwards EST43 (Manhattan Superblock) b. (Brooklyn Campus) Contact Brooklyn Facilities c. (Long Island Campus) Contact Long Island Facilities d. Contact Real Estate & Housing Group for all off site locations for manufacturer NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 509 2024 2. Heat Detectors Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA2 HFS 3. Strobe/Speaker Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSPSTR Series 4. Strobe/Horn Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LHSR Series 5. Strobe Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSTR Series 6. Smoke Detector Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA OSD 7. Duct Detector Above ceiling devices shall have separate LED indication and test buttons with magnetic test switch. Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA SDH 8. Manual Pull Station Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST 270 Series 9. Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems shall be installed in all Mechanical and Electrical rooms that have ceilings above 10 feet or where conduits/ductwork/equipment/etc. will prevent maintenance of smoke detector heads. Approved Manufacturers: a. VESDA END OF FIRE ALARM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 510 2024 7. BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, and all other applicable Codes. The entire installation shall comply with the current City of New York Building Codes, NFPA, NYC Department of Fire, Department of Environmental Protection Agency and all other applicable local Codes. For properties located outside of the City of New York, the entire installation shall comply with all applicable local codes and standards. B. General Requirements and Policy i. General • For renovation work in existing buildings, the existing manufacturer shall be used. For example, the Kimmel Pavilion in the Main Campus is served by an Automated Logic Corporation system. Any modifications to the existing control system shall utilize Automated Logic Corporation controllers. • All controllers, sensors, field devices, etc., shall be UL listed. Control units shall be listed for UL 916 Energy Management Equipment. ii. Engineering • Design engineer shall provide a Network Riser as part of their design documentation. The Design Engineer shall not rely on the BMS contractor to create this. • Ensure BMS sequences of operation align with control sensors indicated on single line drawings. • Ensure BMS network is not on the IT network. • AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. • All new BAS installations shall utilize IP based local controllers. • For all systems that leverage both water and air to maintain climate control, always use water to achieve setpoints prior to additional use of air beyond minimum. o Minimum airflow shall be determined by ventilation and/or pressurization requirements. iii.ii. IP/IT Security • For details on policy for IP/IT security, reference the NYU Langone Health Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 511 2024 • For sites with existing BMS's on the MCIT network, the BMS can remain on the MCIT network. For new sites installing a BMS, the BMS network should be stand alone and not part of the MCIT network. iv.iii. BMS Governance for Locations Not Owned by NYULH For NYULH locations not owned by NYULH (landlord locations): • Equipment owned and operated by NYULH shall be connected to the NYULH BMS. If an NYULH BMS does not exist, it shall be installed. • Equipment owned and operated by the landlord shall remain on the landlord's BMS. • Under no circumstances shall a project connect NYULH maintained equipment to an existing landlord BMS network. v.iv. BMS Mock Up/Factory Acceptance/Witness Test • Provide a mockup of select components and features of the building management system (BMS) during the early stages of construction. The BMS mock up shall be constructed at controls contractor facility. • The BMS mock up shall include the following hardware components: a. Server b. Workstation c. Partial local area network d. Select BACnet local area network to support the DDC unit and unitary controllers e. DDC units, mounted in the final panel enclosures, serving the following systems: i. Each type of air handling system. ii. Each different configuration of Flow Tracking Variable Air Volume Terminal Units iii. Each different configuration of supply air terminal units with modulating return air dampers. iv. Each water system • Provide a software based input/output point operational simulator to confirm proper operation of each type of input/output configuration. • The DDC system mock up shall include the following software components: a. All operator software required for the BMS. b. All monitoring and control software, including system graphics. The graphics required for each system shall be created. Repetitive graphics for identical units are not required. c. All operating sequences of operation software required for systems listed above. • Provide demonstration of the above components, software and operating features to the Owner, EOR, CxA and General Contractor in a BMS mock up review session. It is anticipated that each feature and function of the hardware NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 512 2024 and software will be reviewed over a one (1) week period. Any deficiencies generated during testing shall be corrected within four (4) weeks, and a follow up BMS mock up review session will be scheduled. • During the mock up, the controls contractor shall prepare a “line by line” review of the software coding for each DDC unit to review with NYULH senior control specialists or BMS manager. Factory tests are required for new BMS Panels installs, Panels shall be reviewed and graphics/sequences tested at controls factory prior to shipment, this only applies to large equipment and systems. vi.v. Decommissioning and Demolition General • For any decommissioning and demolition worked performed on the NYULH Manhattan main campus, the engineer and project team shall follow the “NYULH Manhattan Campus BMS Controller Removal From Field and Database document. Obtain for from Manhattan main campus facilities group. • The following items must be included within the “General Scope of Work” section of the Contract Documents: o As existing mechanical and electrical systems are demolished and replaced with new systems, the existing control system serving the demolished equipment must also be removed from the BMS, in its entirety, inclusive of all field devices, controllers, wiring and server related programming (i.e., graphics, trends, alarms, database, etc.) o The BATC Contractor is responsible for removing all items described below. Failure to complete any item listed below will require the BATC Contractor to perform this service free of charge when discovered, regardless of how much time has lapsed since the original demo project. o Prior to starting the decommissioning process, determine whether all points located within the controller are required to be decommissioned. If not, notify NYULH Facility Management Team to determine if the remaining points are to be relocated to a different controller or the controller is to remain. o The BATC Contractor shall be responsible for updating existing “as built” drawings for any systems/equipment which is demolished. Decommissioning of Software • Remove all controller databases. • Transfer all alarms, trends and graphics associated with the system to Decommissioned Links graphic. o Note: Decommissioned Links graphic shall not be made available to typical users. For use by the BATC Contractor and the NYULH Facility Management Team management only. • Update all building and campus summary graphics to remove decommissioned systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 513 2024 Decommissioning of Hardware • Determine whether the controller is the only controller on the power circuit. If so, label the circuit breaker (located in existing power distribution panel) as Spare. • Determine if the controller is at end of run of communication loop or if communication loop is dedicated to this controller. If controller is not at end of run in communication loop, then re terminate communication wiring such that existing controllers on same loop continue communications to server. o If controller is at end of run in communication loop, relocate any end of line resistors to the next controller in line. • Disconnect the following from the controller: o Communication wiring. o Power wiring. o All field wiring. • Remove conduit and wiring as much as possible. At a minimum, conduit and wiring shall be removed up to shaft or wall penetrations. Remaining conduit and wiring shall be tagged Not In Use. • Remove all control panels and field devices. Coordinate with NYULH Facility Management Team to determine whether any of the existing controllers and field devices may be used as attic stock. vii. Delivery, Storage and Handling • Shipping and storage protection shall be provided by manufacturer to ensure that the interior and exterior of components are completely protected from damage, dirt or weather. Components shall be continuously covered with plastic or other durable means, until just prior to installation. Maintain protection after installation to protect against on going construction activities. viii.vi. Project Closeout General Requirements: • The following items must be included within the “Project Closeout” section of the Contract Documents: o Systems will not be added to the BMS network until they are fully commissioned, training has taken place, and operation and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. o Training must be completed prior to occupancy and Facility Management Team acceptance. o The BATC Contractor will provide onsite 24/7 coverage for all warrantied systems until commissioning and training is complete and operations and maintenance manuals have been provided to the Facility Management Team. Testing and Calibrating: • Commission and test the final installed system prior to acceptance by the Facility Management Team. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to calibrate and prepare for service control components, instrumentation and field devices. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 514 2024 o This work includes: Zero, span and range calibration checks of instruments and accessories, both field mounted and panel mounted. In addition, check actuators, control valves and dampers to ensure proper action. Stroke each valve and damper actuator and make necessary adjustments for stem and blade travel. • Furnish labor and test apparatus required to check the operation of control loops, set points and interlocks. Test every input/output point for proper performance through the entire system and maintain accurate test records for each point throughout the testing cycle and thereafter. The Facility Management Team reserves the right to inspect those test records at any time and also to witness any of the point tests they deem appropriate. • All equipment used for testing and calibration shall be NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable and calibrated within the preceding 12 month period. Certificates of calibration shall be available for review by the Facility Management Team. ix.vii. Warranty • Warranty direct digital control units, field devices, components, etc., to be free from defects in workmanship and material for a period of one (1) year from completion of final commissioning, which may occur beyond equipment acceptance and initial occupancy by NYULH. During this period, BATC Contractor shall furnish all labor to repair or replace all items or components that fail due to defects in workmanship or material. • Failures on control systems, including all computer equipment, transmission equipment and all sensors and control devices during the warranty period, shall be adjusted, repaired or replaced at no additional cost or reduction in service to NYULH. • Provide necessary preventive maintenance on the system during the warranty period. Provide updates to operator workstation and server software, project specific software, graphic software, database software and firmware that resolve software deficiencies at no charge during warranty period. • During the warranty period, BATC Contractor shall test the system under varying seasonal conditions to ensure that all operational sequences, as specified, are performed correctly. o This shall include at least three additional visits after initial NYULH Facility Management Team acceptance. Where necessary, BATC Contractor shall make programming adjustments and instrument calibrations at no expense to NYULH. • At the end of the warranty period update “as built” documentation to reflect any modifications made during the warranty period. • Uncompleted Work Period: At the end of the warranty period, a five year uncompleted work period shall begin. The uncompleted work period shall be used to determine if the BATC Contractor has completed the entire scope of work as required for the project. If work has been found to be incomplete or never installed, as determined by the NYULH Facility Management Team, the BATC NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 515 2024 Contractor shall be responsible for completing the work at no additional cost to NYULH. x.viii. User Access Levels Follow NYULH Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. xi. Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTU: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White C. Locations i. NYULH Manhattan Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Automated Logic Corporation b. Schneider Electric c. Laboratory Control Solutions: Kimmel Pavilion; Medical Science Building; Science Building; Smilow Research Center; Tisch Hospital, Skirball i. Flow tracking applications ii. Fume hood applications ii. NYULH Long Island Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Tridium Niagara iii. NYULH Brooklyn Main Campus The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Trane Tracer NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 516 2024 ii. NYULH LOH The following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. C&S Building Services iii. NYULH Real Estate & Housing For sites that have an NYULH managed BMS on premises, confirm in writing with the NYULH Real Estate group that the existing BMS network is sufficient and not obsolete. For sites that do not have an NYULH managed BMS on premises the following BMS manufacturers are acceptable for the furnishing and installation of DDC products as specified in this subsection for this location: a. Schneider b. ALC D. People The following individuals/groups are named throughout the BAS Standard: • NYULH Project Manager • NYULH Facility Management Team • NYULH Senior Controls Specialists o For the NYULH Long Island campus, the Controls Shop Manager acts in this role • NYULH Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH MCIT • Engineer of Record • Building Automation Temperature Controls (BATC) Contractor These below individuals/groups are to produce, approve, be consulted on or be informed of all deliverables as indicated in the Deliverables Approval Matrix. Design Engineer Required. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 517 2024 Deliverables Approval Matrix: Approved BMS Vendors: Reference the NYULH Approved Vendors List for vendors that are authorized to install the site specific BMS manufacturer’s product line. E. Deliverables i. Drawings & Specifications a. Control Signal Single Line Diagrams The Engineer of Record shall produce one control single line diagram per system type. Each shall consist of the following: • Piping and instrumentation diagram • Hardwire interlocks • All required BAS points, alarms and trends Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 518 2024 • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) b. Smart Comfort Program Strategies Energy Saving Strategies: • Engineer of Record shall analyze each individual space and consider its use to develop a strategic energy saving sequence during unoccupied periods. • These areas shall also have a means of placing the system back into an occupied mode • Strategies that shall be considered, but not limited to, are as follows: o Flow Setbacks o Temperature setbacks o Lighting control Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • NYULH Real Estate & Housing (for NYULH Real Estate & Housing locations only) ii. BAS Submittal • All BAS submittals shall be developed using approved submittals and shop drawings. Design documents as well as non approved submittals and shop drawings are not acceptable for use in BAS submittal development. Submittals for each project, regardless of scope and size, shall consist of the following: • All subsections of the BAS Submittal that shall be submitted as independent deliverables. o Network Architecture Diagram o Control Valve Schedule o Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations o Schedule of BMS Alarms o BMS System Graphics o Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence o Test Forms • Compliance document consisting of Specifications 23 0900 and 23 0993 and, at each section, paragraph and subparagraph, identify compliance or non compliance by C (Comply), D (Deviate) or E (Exception). For each D and E item, describe what specific alternative approach has been taken. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 519 2024 • Specification sheets for each type of electronic sensors, transmitters, controllers, actuators, relays, switches and miscellaneous control devices. • Schedule and specification sheets for control damper actuators, including material and construction details, duct size, damper size, actuator mounting location and quantity of actuators. Actuator sizing calculations and configuration shall be submitted. Actuators to be selected based on approved sheet metal shop drawings and damper submittals. • DDC controller point list. • Point nomenclature. o Projects which are adding or modifying equipment in an existing NYULH site with an existing BMS, keep reference and point names consistent with the rest of the system. This applies to graphics, program definition, etc. • Control diagrams for each system with a written sequence of operation and control devices identified with instrument tag numbers. Control diagrams to include symbol and abbreviation list. o Sequence of operation shall not be a facsimile of the engineer’s project documentation o Note: For variable air volume air handling systems, control diagrams are to indicate field installed location of end of duct static pressure transmitters. • The BMS vendor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers (CB), power supplies (PS), transformers (TX), control relays (CR), terminal blocks, wire ducts, and