Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Policy Patients have the right to request a restriction on certain Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) to their Health Plan (i.e., insurer). NYU Langone Health is required to agree to this type of restriction when a patient requests such a restriction and pays for the health care item or service in full and out of pocket (i.e., not by their insurer). NYU Langone Health will not violate the restriction, except to the extent that such a Use or Disclosure is required by law or the restriction has been properly terminated. For a restriction to be considered properly terminated, one of the following must take place: • the patient revoked the restriction, in writing, or • the patient defaulted on the payment(s) for services covered by the restriction. By requesting this type of Disclosure restriction to a Health Plan, the patient understands that: • all estimated costs must be paid based on the standard self pay discounted rate on the date of service, • the final bill must be paid in full when received or a payment plan in place in coordination with Financial Counseling, • they are not eligible for financial assistance beyond a payment plan as described here, • only those records relating to the fully paid out of pocket services will be kept from the Health Plan, and • they will not submit any bills for the included services to the Health Plan. If a patient defaults (i.e., fails to pay) on payment(s), NYU Langone Health has the right to bill and Disclose the information necessary to obtain Payment from the Health Plan, after reasonable efforts have been made to collect payment. The patient will be responsible for payment of the full amount due for all services not covered by the Health Plan, including those not covered because pre authorization was not obtained prior to the service or the timeline for submission to the Health Plan has lapsed due to NYU Langone Health providing the patient opportunity to submit payment. The patient is responsible for alerting or requesting restrictions with all other providers not listed on the form. Applicable departmental personnel will be trained on the procedures for properly flagging the encounters in the electronic medical record and handling disclosure restrictions to Health Plans. Page 2 of 2 Procedure 1. All patient requests for this restriction must be made in writing by completing the Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer form. This form should be thoroughly discussed and submitted to Patient Registration or Admitting (or the appropriate practice manager for outpatient visits). 2. Ensure that the health care item or service is flagged in the electronic medical record (i.e., in Epic) by indicating the payor type “Non Payor/Non Disclosure Plan”. Any record with this payor type should not be Disclosed to the Health Plan. 3. Payment in full or the estimated payment must be made on the date of service, except in emergency situations when payment must be made with submission of the Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer Form prior to the submission of request for payment to the Health Plan. 4. Scan the completed form into the patient’s medical record. Related Documents HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer form Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 8 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy Patients have the right to access or inspect their Protected Health Information (“PHI”) contained in the Designated Record Set. Patients also have the right to obtain copies (paper or electronic) of their PHI contained in the Designated Record Set. NYU Langone Health, in limited circumstances, may deny this right. Patients may also have the right to an internal and/or the New York State Medical Access Review Board review of a denial. All patient requests to inspect and/or obtain a copy of PHI must be submitted in writing in accordance with NYU Langone Health procedures. NYU Langone Health will respond to all requests as soon as possible and in accordance with this Policy. A reasonable, cost based fee may be imposed for providing copies of the patient’s PHI. A reasonable, cost based fee may be also be imposed for the creation of a summary or explanation of information in lieu of a patient exercising their right to inspect PHI. NYU Langone Health may not deny a patient’s request to access, inspect, or obtain copies of medical records solely because of the patient’s inability to pay for the requested copy or any outstanding medical treatment bills. Workforce Members should be aware that special privacy protections apply to Confidential HIV Related Information, alcohol and substance abuse information, mental health information, and genetic information. Procedure 1. All requests to inspect PHI must be made in writing, using the Patient Request to Inspect PHI form. • Where available, NYU Langone Health Workforce Members may also encourage the patient to access their medical information online via the patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart, available at: https://mychart.nyulmc.org/mychart/. 2. All requests to obtain copies of PHI must be made in writing, and should use a valid authorization that meets both New York State and HIPAA requirements. If providing request in writing is not feasible, an oral/verbal request can be accepted if a patients identity can be verified. The NYU Langone Health Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Page 2 of 8 Protected Health Information form is preferred; however, the New York State HIPAA form is acceptable. Any other authorization must be valid under both New York State and HIPAA regulations. Consult the Privacy Officer as necessary. • The completed form may be mailed or hand delivered to the appropriate address as indicated on the form’s directions. Forms may also be faxed or emailed, dependent on location and availability to receive such format. • Patient requests for copies of HIPAA related Authorizations do not require a signed Authorization form and can be provided to the patient at any time. 3. A patient’s Personal Representative may request access to inspect the patient’s PHI. NYU Langone Health should generally grant or deny access in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Policy as though the Personal Representative were the patient, unless one of the following exceptions apply: • If a physician has certified that the patient lacks the capacity to make health care decisions and a Personal Representative is designated, the NYU Langone Health must grant the Personal Representative full access to the patient’s PHI, even if the patient would otherwise be denied access under this Policy. Full access is required under New York State law to allow the personal representative to make informed decisions regarding the patient’s health care. • If a personal representative requests access to the PHI of a patient over the age of 12 years, NYU Langone Health may notify the patient and permit the patient the opportunity to object to such access by the Personal Representative. If the patient objects, NYU Langone Health may deny the Personal Representative’s request for access. Consultation with the treating practitioner is required before rendering a decision. NYU Langone Health must provide written notice of the decision to the Personal Representative in accordance with the procedures set forth in this policy. • A parent or guardian is not entitled to inspect or obtain copies of any patient information concerning the care or treatment of a patient under the age of 18 (a “minor”) if the treating physician certifies that such access would have a detrimental effect on:  the physician’s professional relationship with the minor,  the care or treatment of the minor, or  the minor’s relationship with his or her parents or guardian. *NYU Langone Health must provide written notification of such a decision. • A parent or guardian is not entitled to inspect or obtain copies of any patient information concerning the treatment of a minor patient for a venereal disease or the performance of an abortion operation (i.e., family planning services). 4. Workforce Members should forward the completed form to the appropriate unit as follows: • requests to inspect PHI to: NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016. • requests to obtain copies of Tisch Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, and other NYU Langone Hospitals site records not listed below to: HIM, NYU Langone Hospitals, 650 First Ave, 6th Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 5490). Page 3 of 8 • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital records to: HIM, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, 301 East 17th St, NY, NY 10003 (212 598 6790) (in person at 380 2nd Ave, Suite 640, NY, NY 10003). • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn records to: HIM, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (718 630 7125). • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Hospital Long Island records requests made in person: Admitting Office Main Lobby, 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501; record requests made via mail: 200 Old Country Road, Suite 201, Mineola, NY 11501, (516 663 2515, #4) • requests to obtain copies of Perlmutter Cancer Center records to: HIM, Perlmutter Cancer Center, 160 E 34th St, NY, NY 10016 (212 731 6180). • requests to obtain copies of Faculty Group Practice records to: the individual practice. • requests to obtain copies of NYU Winthrop Certified Home Health Agency to: NYU Winthrop CHHA, 290 Old Country Road, Mineola, NY 11501 (516 663 8000).requests to obtain copies of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health records to: Director FHC Network Operations, at FHCPatientRelations@nyulangone.org • requests to obtain copies of Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records to: 219 54th Street, Brooklyn, NY (929 455 2099). 5. Determine, as appropriate, after consultation with the Attending Physician or similar, whether the request to inspect or obtain copies should be granted or denied, in whole or in part. Refer to the chart below for further explanation. Basis for Denial Right to Internal Review of Denial? Right to Review of Denial by the NYS Medical Access Review Board? Incomplete Request Form No No The information requested is not contained in a Designated Record Set Maintained by NYU Langone or its Business Associate(s), for example the information was obtained from another provider No No The information was obtained or created in the course of Research and the Research is still in progress (provided the patient agreed to this denial of access when consenting to the Research study) No No The information requested are the personal notes or observations of the clinician No Yes A licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that Yes Yes; judicial review also available Page 4 of 8 granting access is reasonably likely to endanger the life or safety of the patient or another person The information makes reference to another person and a licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that granting access is reasonably likely to cause substantial harm to the referenced person Yes Yes; judicial review also available The information was requested by the patient’s Personal Representative and a licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that granting access is reasonably likely to cause substantial harm to the patient or another person Yes Yes; judicial review also available The information was compiled in reasonable anticipation of, or for use in, a civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding No No The information was obtained from someone other than a health care provider under an agreement of confidentiality and access to the information would reveal the identity of the person No No Provision of the information to the requesting inmate would jeopardize the health, safety, security, custody, or rehabilitation of the requesting inmate, other inmates, officers or employees at the correctional institution, or other persons responsible for transporting the inmate No No The information is a lab result that must be obtained directly from the ordering clinician; the clinician’s authorization is required before release. No No 6. Respond to all requests, in the manner described in number 9 below, to inspect or obtain copies of PHI within 10 days from receipt of the form. • If a request obtain copies cannot be fulfilled within the timeframe, notify the requestor in writing of the reasons for the delay (e.g., records are located offsite) and the date by which the patient can expect a response. Only one 30 day extension is permitted (i.e., records must be provided within 60 days of receiving request). 7. Provide the records in the form and format requested by the patient. • When an individual requests an electronic copy of paper records, NYU Langone Health will provide the individual with an electronic copy in the format requested (e.g., PDF, Word Document) if it is readily producible (i.e., scan the paper documents). • When an individual requests an electronic copy of electronic records, NYU Langone Health will provide the individual with the information in the form and format requested if it is readily producible (e.g., MyChart). Page 5 of 8 • For fax requests, confirm fax number prior to sending. • For email requests, notify the recipient that the email will be sent using NYU Langone Health secure email, Send Safe.  If the file is too large (e.g., diagnostic images) notify the requestor and determine appropriate alternative method. Consult with the Privacy Officer as necessary. • If a patient requests that their medical records be sent via unencrypted email, the request MUST be sent to the Privacy Officer for review and fulfillment. The Privacy Officer will ensure that the requestor confirms, after receiving a notification message regarding the security of unencrypted email transmission that they still wish to receive their records in this manner. This message and confirmation of acceptance will be scanned into the medical record with the release form. Requests for records in other forms or formats (e.g., USB drive) will be honored when the form and format are readily producible. Consult the Privacy Officer as necessary. 8. Inform the patient where to direct their request to inspect or obtain copies of PHI, if NYU Langone Health does not maintain the record that is the subject of the patient’s request and the Workforce Member knows where the requested information is maintained. 9. Inform the requestor of the decision. • Request Granted:  to inspect: inform in writing using the Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Granted template.  to obtain copies: no written response required if available with timeframe, provide copies in the form and format requested. • Request Denied:  to inspect: inform in writing using the Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Denied template.  to obtain copies: inform in writing using the Patient Request to Obtain a Copy of Protected Health Information Denied template.  include: the reason(s) for the denial, their right (if any) to seek further review, and a description of how the patient may complain to NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and New York State Department of Health, by including a “New York State Department of Health Denial of Access to Patient Information and Appeal Form”, available at: http://www.health.ny.gov/forms/doh 1989.pdf. 10. Verify the requestor’s identity prior to providing access or copies. 11. Remove any PHI to which the requestor is not permitted access prior to providing an opportunity to inspect or prior to providing copies of the requested records. 12. During inspection: Page 6 of 8 • A Workforce Member will remain in the room to ensure that there is no tampering with any information, but remain at a reasonable distance to afford privacy. • Do not attempt to explain any information contained in the record, unless the Workforce Members is a licensed health care professional associated with the inspected record. • If the requestor asks to obtain copies, he/she must complete and submit the form. 13. Workforce Members need only produce the requested PHI once (for inspection and/or obtaining copies), even if it is maintained in more than one Designated Record Set, or at more than one location. 14. If the patient agrees in advance, NYU Langone Health may provide the patient with a written summary or explanation of the PHI that is the subject of the request to inspect or obtain in lieu of providing an opportunity to inspect or actual copies, even if the request would be denied under this policy. NYU Langone Health may charge the patient for the costs associated with preparing the summary or explanation, so long as the patient agrees in advance to such costs. 15. NYU Langone Health may charge fees as follows and the individual will be informed of any such approximate fee in advance: • NYU Langone Health may charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed 0.75¢ per page plus postage for the reproduction and delivery of patient records. This fee is based on cost based expenses, such as labor for copying, supplies, and postage if mailed. o Permissible fees for labor for ‘copying’ does not include labor costs to search, retrieve, review, identify, segregate, collect, compile, and prepare the information. Costs for outsourcing access cannot be the basis of fees charged. o Per page fees are not permitted for paper or electronic copies of PHI maintained electronically. o Patients will not be charged for records which are requested for the purpose of supporting an application, claim, or appeal for any government benefit or program, in compliance with New York State law. The patient must note on the Request Form this as the purpose for the release. “Government benefit or program” may include (but is not limited to) applications for Social Security disability or September 11th survivor health benefits or appeals. • For electronic copies of electronic PHI, NYU Langone Health may charge a flat fee not to exceed $6.50 or, alternatively, calculate the average or actual allowable costs for these types of requests. • Copies of radiology films are provided on a password protected CD/DVD for a reasonable cost based fee. • Patients will not be charged for the costs of producing an original mammogram (i.e., original as opposed to a copy of the mammogram), but may charge patients for the cost of delivering the original mammogram. Page 7 of 8 16. If the patient requests an internal review of a denial: • Workforce Members must promptly refer the request for review to the Senior Director of HIM or the Privacy Officer who will refer the matter as follows:  The Chief Medical Officer will review the denial of a request to access NYU Langone Hospitals records.  The Chief Clinical Officer will review the denial of a request to access School of Medicine or Faculty Group Practice records.  The Medical Director at the respective site will review the denial of a request to access: the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health and the Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records.  If the above listed individuals participated in any manner in the decision to deny access, the Privacy Officer will appoint a reviewing official who is a licensed health care professional to review. • The Reviewing Official must:  determine, within 15 days from receipt of the request whether or not to deny the patient’s request to inspect based on the permitted grounds for denial.  promptly notify the referring department of his or her decision.  The referring department must provide written notice of the decision to the patient within 15 days of receipt of the reviewing official’s decision.  If the Reviewing Official determines that access should be granted, NYU Langone Health must provide access as set forth in this Policy. 17. If the patient requests review of the denial by the appropriate New York State Medical Access Review Committee (“Committee”), NYU Langone Health must transmit the information, including personal notes and observations, within 10 days of the receipt of such request to the chairman of the appropriate Committee with a statement setting forth the basis of the denial. In the event that the Committee determines that the request for access shall be granted, in whole or in part, NYU Langone Health shall grant access pursuant to the Committee’s determination and/or with the procedures set forth in this Policy. 18. If the patient seeks judicial review of the denial, Workforce Members will forward all such requests or subpoenas to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) or the Office of Legal Counsel. Related Documents Designated Record Set HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions NYU Langone Health Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information form Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Denied template Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information form Page 8 of 8 Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Granted template Patient Request to Obtain a Copy of Protected Health Information Denied template Verification of Identity and Authority Prior to Disclosure of PHI Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.524 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request Additional Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of PHI Policy Patients have the right to request additional restrictions on the Use or Disclosure of their Protected Health Information (“PHI”) for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, to family or friends involved in the patient’s care, or for notification purposes (to family and friends or entities authorized to assist in disaster relief efforts). NYU Langone Health is not required to agree to this restriction, except in one limited circumstance, governed by the Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan policy. For restrictions agreed upon by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) , NYU Langone Health will not Use or Disclose PHI in violation of that restriction, unless: • the Use or Disclosure is necessary for emergency treatment (however, NYU Langone Health must request that the recipient health care provider not further Use or Disclose the information), • is required or permitted by law, or • the restriction has been terminated in accordance with this Policy. For example, a patient may request that NYU Langone Health refrain from Disclosing the results of a lab test to a clinician or to a particular family member, who is otherwise specifically authorized to receive PHI. The request form and decision letter will be maintained by IACERM. All agreed upon restrictions will also be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. Procedure 1. All patient requests for restrictions must be made in writing. Patients must complete the Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information form. 2. Workforce Members will forward the patient’s completed form to IACERM. 3. IACERM will determine, in consultation with appropriate Workforce Members including clinicians, whether a request for restriction should be accepted or denied. IACERM will Page 2 of 2 notify the patient in writing of his or her decision within 30 days from the receipt of the request. Other than as provided by the Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan policy, NYU Langone Health is not required to agree to a request for a restriction. 4. IACERM will notify the Workforce Member who submitted the patient’s form of the outcome as appropriate. 5. IACERM will notify any Business Associates as necessary, about any restrictions it has agreed to the extent the restriction affects the Business Associate’s performance of services and in accordance with the Business Associate Agreement. 6. To terminate a restriction, NYU Langone Health must either: • obtain the patient’s agreement in writing. If the patient orally agrees to terminate the restriction, the oral agreement must be documented, including the date of the oral agreement; or • inform the patient in writing that the restriction agreement is terminated. In such a case, the termination is only effective with respect to PHI that is created or received after the patient has been informed. Related Documents Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information form Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Uses and Disclosures of PHI for Treatment, Payment and Health Care Operations Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522(a) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request an Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy Patients have a right to an accounting of Disclosures of their Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health must provide patients with such an accounting made during the six (6) years prior to the date of request. NYU Langone Health will provide the first accounting of Disclosures requested by a patient within a twelve month period free of cost; all subsequent requests within a twelve month period may be subject to a reasonable, cost based fee (e.g., supplies, labor, postage). The patient will be informed of any fee in advance and provided with an opportunity to withdraw or modify the request for the subsequent accounting in order to avoid or reduce the fee. Workforce Members must record Disclosures of PHI in the patient’s medical record or in the Accounting for Disclosures Database as required by the Accounting for Disclosures of PHI policy. Types of Disclosures that will be included are those made: • as required by law (e.g. reporting certain types of wounds), • for public health activities (e.g., reporting communicable diseases or births/deaths), • to report victims of abuse, neglect, and domestic violence, • for health oversight activities (e.g., requested by the Federal Office of Inspector General or the New York State Department of Health), • for judicial and administrative proceedings (e.g., pursuant to a valid subpoena), • for reports about decedents (e.g., to coroners, medical examiners, and funeral directors), • for cadaveric organ, eye, or tissue donation purposes, • for research conducted under an Institutional Review Board Waiver of Authorization, • to avert a serious threat to health and safety, • for certain specialized government functions (e.g., military and veterans affairs; medical suitability determinations), • for workers compensation purposes, • any other Disclosure that is not specifically excluded (including mistaken or unauthorized Disclosure), as provided below. Page 2 of 4 Types of Disclosures that will not be included are those made: • for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, • to the patient or their Personal Representative, • in accordance with the patient’s written Authorization, • incidental to a permitted disclosure, • to family or friends involved in the patient’s care or for notification purposes, • for national security or intelligence purposes, • to law enforcement or correctional institutions about an inmate or other person in legal custody, and • made for the creation of De Identified Information or a Limited Data Set. NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend a patient’s right to receive an accounting of Disclosures that are made to a health oversight agency or to a law enforcement agency if the agency so requests as follows: • The agency provides NYU Langone Health with a written statement that providing an accounting of Disclosures is reasonably likely to impede the agency’s activities. The agency must specify the time for which suspension is required. • The agency orally informs NYU Langone Health that providing an accounting of Disclosures is reasonably likely to impede the agency’s activities. If an oral statement is made, Workforce Members must document the statement and the identity of the agency making the statement. NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend the patient’s right to an accounting of the particular Disclosures covered by the statement for no longer than 30 days. If the agency provides a written statement within 30 days of the oral statement, NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend the patient’s right to an accounting of the particular Disclosures for the time specified in the written statement. The request form and the accounting provided to the patient will be retained by IACERM. Procedure 1. All requests for an accounting of Disclosures must be submitted in writing, using the Request for an Accounting of Disclosures form, to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). 2. Upon receipt of the completed form IACERM will gather the requested information by: • obtaining a Patient Disclosure Report from Epic, • obtaining a report from the Accounting for Disclosures Database (including any reports with respect to archived database within the covered timeframe), • obtaining the Protocol List from the Institutional Review Board (“IRB”), • contacting Business Associate(s) as necessary to request the information required (or providing the Business Associate(s)’ contact information to the patient for direct submission of their request), and • querying any other system or paper records that contain patient disclosures (e.g., CDC National Healthcare Safety Network; the Electronic Clinical Laboratory Reporting System). Page 3 of 4 3. IACERM will attach the Protocol List to the accounting of Disclosures. The IRB must, at the patient’s request, assist the patient in contacting the research sponsor and the researcher if there is a reasonable likelihood that the patient’s PHI was actually disclosed for the Research protocol or activity. 4. Each Disclosure must include: • the date of the Disclosure, • the name of the entity/person receiving the PHI and, if known, the address of such entity or person (to the extent this does not violate the HIPAA Rules), • a brief description of the PHI that was Disclosed, and • a brief description of the purpose of the Disclosure or, in lieu of such statement, a copy of a written request for a Disclosure under §§ 164.502(a)(2)(ii) or 164.512, if any. o If, during the accounting period requested, multiple Disclosures were made to the same person or entity for a single purpose, the accounting may list the information above in addition to the frequency, periodicity, or number of disclosures made during the accounting period and the date of the last such disclosure during the accounting period. 5. Each disclosure made to an external researcher for a particular Research purpose involving 50 or more individuals pursuant to an IRB Waiver of Authorization must include: • the name of the protocol or other Research activity, • a brief description in plain language of the Research protocol or other Research activity, including the purpose of the Research and the criteria for selecting particular records, • a brief description of the type of PHI that was Disclosed, • the date or period of time during which Disclosures occurred, • the name, address, and telephone number of the entity that sponsored the Research and of the researcher to whom the information was Disclosed, and • a statement that the PHI of the patient may or may not have been Disclosed for a particular protocol or Research activity. 6. IACERM will provide the accounting of Disclosures to the patient within 60 days of receipt of the form. If IACERM cannot respond within 60 days, IACERM will notify the patient in writing of the reasons for the delay and the date by which the accounting of Disclosures will be provided. NYU Langone Health is only permitted one 30 day extension per request. 7. An invoice will be attached to the accounting of Disclosures if applicable. Related Documents Accounting for Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Request for an Accounting of Disclosures form Page 4 of 4 Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.528 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.