1 Policy on Conflicts of Interest For Trustees, Officers, And Key Persons Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: April 1, 2015 Last Update: October 11, 2019 Contents: I. Applicability II. General Policy III. Procedures for Disclosure IV. Procedures for Review and Evaluation V. Recusal VI. Definitions VII. Examples of Conflicts of Interest VIII. Annual Report by Vice President, IACERM IX. Enforcement X. Questions XI. Administration I. Applicability This Policy applies to Trustees, Officers, and Key Persons of NYU Langone Health (together, “Covered Persons”). All capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI below. II. General Policy A. Covered Persons have a primary obligation to serve the purposes to which NYU Langone Health and New York University (“NYU”) are dedicated. As part of this obligation, each Covered Person has a duty to conduct his or her NYU Langone Health duties and the affairs of NYU Langone Health in a manner that promotes the best interests of the organization and that complies with legal and regulatory requirements. Covered Persons have a duty to disclose on an ongoing basis any current, proposed or pending situations that may be a Conflict of Interest. In the occasional situation where a Covered Person becomes aware that they have not disclosed a Conflict of Interest on a timely basis, the Covered Person has the continuing duty to disclose it as promptly as possible thereafter. B. A “Conflict of Interest” means any circumstance in which the personal, professional, financial, or other interests of a Covered Person (including his or her Relative) may potentially or actually diverge from, or may reasonably be perceived as potentially or actually diverging from, his or her obligations to NYU Langone Health and the interests of NYU Langone Health and NYU. A Conflict of Interest may exist whenever an independent observer might reasonably question whether the Covered Person’s actions or decisions are determined by considerations of personal benefit, whether financial or otherwise. Any business transaction which involves NYU Langone Health and the Covered Person, a Relative of the Covered Person, or an entity in which he or she has a Material Interest gives rise to a Conflict of Interest. Examples of Conflicts of Interest are set forth in Section VII below. This Policy applies to any circumstance that may constitute a Conflict of Interest, regardless of whether it is specifically described in this Policy. C. NYU Langone Health does not enter into any Related Party Transactions, or other business transactions with Covered Persons, Relatives of Covered Persons, or entities in which any Covered Person has a Material Interest which give rise to a potential Conflict of Interest, or other matters which give rise 2 to a potential Conflict of Interest. In the case of Related Party Transactions, the transaction may only be entered into after the Audit and Compliance Committee (the “Audit and Compliance Committee”) of the Board of Trustees of NYU Langone Health System (the “System”) determines that the transaction is fair, reasonable, and in NYU Langone Health’s and NYU’s best interest as provided in Section IV(B) below. D. Covered Persons must not engage in competition with NYU Langone Health by service on the board of, or otherwise working for, an organization which competes directly with NYU Langone Health, or appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the Covered Person knows NYU Langone Health is pursuing. E. Covered Persons may not obtain, use, or disclose NYU Langone Health Confidential Information for a purpose that may be detrimental to NYU Langone Health, or disclose NYU Langone Health Confidential Information to a person or entity that is not authorized by NYU Langone Health to receive it. F. Where relevant, a Covered Person must cooperate with any plan adopted by NYU Langone Health to manage, reduce, or eliminate the Conflict of Interest. G. The Audit and Compliance Committee will oversee the implementation of and compliance with this Policy. III. Procedures for Disclosure A. Disclosure General on Appointment and Annually thereafter. Covered Persons must submit a general disclosure questionnaire upon appointment, annually thereafter, and upon request by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (the “IACERM”). In the applicable general disclosure questionnaire, a Covered Person must certify compliance with this Policy and disclose all entities in which he or she holds a Material Interest which he or she reasonably believes does or may do business with NYU Langone Health or NYU or competes or may compete with NYU Langone Health or NYU. All disclosures require detailed answers. The Covered Person must disclose, among other things, the followin g: (i) any entity with which the Covered Person and/or a Relative of the Covered Person has a director, officer, or trustee position; (ii) any family or business relationship between the Covered Person and/or a Relative of the Covered Person and a Trustee, or an employee of NYU Langone Health, including an Officer or a Key Person; (iii) any direct business relationship between the Covered Person and/or a Relative of the Covered Person and any NYU Langone Health Entity, NYU, or any competitor of NYU Langone Health; (iv) any anticipated transaction in which the Covered Person and/or a Relative of the Covered Person has a direct or indirect financial interest that would constitute Related Party Transaction with NYU Langone Health. The general disclosure questionnaire will be provided to each Covered Person by IACERM and must be completed and returned within thirty (30) days of receipt. In addition, prior to the initial election of a Trustee, such individual must have completed and returned the general disclosure questionnaire then in effect. Covered Persons may also be required to disclose additional personal interests, activities and relationships as mandated by regulatory requirements (e.g., IRS Form 990). 3 B. Disclosures Specific & Periodic Updates between Submissions. Covered Persons must disclose to IACERM any specific situation that gives rise to a potential Conflict of Interest. Covered Persons have an ongoing obligation throughout the year to disclose new and anticipated Conflicts of Interest, as well as to disclose Conflicts of Interest of which they may not have been initially aware. C. Confidentiality. All disclosures will be kept confidential and divulged by NYU Langone Health solely for review under this Policy and NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators (where applicable) on a need to know basis or as required by applicable laws and regulations. IV. Procedures for Review and Evaluation A. Initial Review. IACERM is responsible for reviewing each disclosure received from any Covered Person and for determining whether a potential Conflict of Interest exists under the circumstances. In cases where IACERM believes that a potential Conflict of Interest exists, IACERM will submit the matter to the Audit and Compliance Committee for review in accordance with this Policy. IACERM will provide a copy of all completed disclosure forms to the Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee. B. Audit and Compliance Committee Review. The Audit and Compliance Committee is responsible for reviewing and evaluating each potential Conflict of Interest involving a Covered Person submitted to it. If the Committee finds that a Conflict of Interest exists, the Committee shall also adopt a plan for managing, reducing, or eliminating the Conflict of Interest which is fully consistent with the best interests of NYU Langone Health and NYU. Any management plan will depend upon the facts and circumstances of the specific matter. The existence and resolution of the Conflict of Interest must be documented in the records of the meeting of the Committee at which it was discussed or voted upon. As matter of policy, for any Related Party Transactions, NYU Langone Health will not approve the matter unless the Committee has made a determination that the transaction is fair, reasonable, and in NYU Langone Health’s and NYU’s best interest. For Related Party Transactions where the Related Party has a substantial financial interest, the Committee must, prior to NYU Langone Health entering into the transaction, (1) consider alternatives to the transaction to the extent available; (2) approve the transaction by not less than a majority vote of the Committee members present at the meeting; and (3) contemporaneously document in writing the basis for the Committee’s approval, including its consideration of alternative transactions. The Committee must report to the System’s Board of Trustees all findings it makes arising from its review and evaluation responsibilities under this Policy. C. Circumstances Involving NYU Audit and Compliance Committee Review. Where an individual who is a “Covered Person” of NYU pursuant to NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators is involved in a Conflict of Interest (whether or not such individual is also a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health pursuant to this Policy), or where a conflict occurs at NYU (including at the School of Medicine), NYU has an interest in the matter and the NYU Audit and Compliance Committee may review the Conflict of Interest. In such cases, the following procedure applies: (i) Where an individual is (a) jointly a “Covered Person" of NYU and a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves the School of Medicine or NYU Langone Health, the Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter first and any determination other than to eliminate the Conflict of Interest is subject to the approval of NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee; (ii) Where any individual is (a) jointly a “Covered Person” of NYU and a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves NYU other than the School of Medicine, NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter first and any 4 determination other than to eliminate the Conflict of Interest is subject to the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee; (iii) Where the individual is (a) a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health but not a “Covered Person” of NYU and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves NYU (but not the School of Medicine), NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter first and any determination other than to eliminate the Conflict of Interest is subject to the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee; and (iv) Where the individual is (a) a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health but not a “Covered Person” of NYU and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves the School of Medicine (but not any other part of NYU), the Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter first and any determination other than to eliminate the Conflict of Interest is subject to the approval of NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee; and (v) Where the individual is (a) a “Covered Person” of NYU but not a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves the School of Medicine, NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter and may seek guidance from the Audit and Compliance Committee; (vi) Where the individual is (a) a “Covered Person” of NYU but not a Covered Person of NYU Langone Health and (b) the Conflict of Interest involves NYU Langone Health, NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee will review the matter first and any determination other than to eliminate the Conflict of Interest is subject to the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee. The Vice President of IACERM will be responsible for coordinating with NYU and its General Counsel and Secretary of the University (or designee) and, where applicable, Chair of NYU’s Audit and Compliance Committee (or designee) on matters requiring joint reviews. V. Recusal No Covered Person shall be present or participate in the deliberation or vote by a Board of Trustees, or committee thereof, on a matter giving rise to their own potential Conflict of Interest, or attempt to influence improperly the deliberation or voting on the matter. In such event, the Covered Person must recuse himself or herself from participation in the deliberation and vote of the matter. VI. Definitions A. “Confidential Information” is any information relating to or about NYU Langone Health’s business or operations which is not intended to be disseminated to the public at large. It includes, but is not limited to, information concerning NYU Langone Health’s:  employees, medical staff, faculty and students, such as salary levels, professional fees, prices, personnel records, background checks, and conflict of interest disclosures;  business arrangements, such as contractual arrangements with suppliers and managed care companies, strategic plans, potential affiliations, acquisitions and mergers, business and donor relationships, planned investments, marketing strategies and software development (including source code);  research, such as proposals and findings, unpublished research data, results, manuscripts and correspondence, invention disclosures and other unpublished intellectual property; and 5  internal investigations, pre litigation and litigation and administrative agency charges, audits and inquiries. B. “Conflict of Interest” shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section II(B) above. C. “Covered Person” means a Trustee, an Officer, or a Key Person of the System and of any NYU Langone Health Entity. D. “Key Person” of the System (or of any of NYU Langone Health Entity) means any person, other than a Trustee or Officer, whether or not an employee of the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable), who (i) has responsibilities, or exercises powers or influence over the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable) as a whole similar to the responsibilities, powers, or influence of directors and Officers; (ii) manages the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable), or a segment of the System (or the NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable) that represents a substantial portion of the activities, assets, income, or expenses of the System (or NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable); or (iii) alone or with others controls or determines a substantial portion of the capital expenditures or operating budget of the System (or NYU Langone Health Entity, as applicable). For the System, Key Person includes but is not limited all members of the executive leadership of NYU Langone Health as defined from time to time by the CEO of the System who are not Officers of the System. E. A “Material Interest” in an entity is held when a Covered Person and/or a Relative of the Covered Person (a) is, or was in the preceding twelve (12) months, a director, trustee, partner, officer or senior executive in the entity or (b) has, or had in the preceding twelve (12) months, a financial interest of any kind in the entity which, in view of all the circumstances, is substantial enough that it might affect, or reasonably be perceived to affect, the Covered Person’s judgment with respect to transactions between NYU Langone Health and the entity, or when the entity is, or has been in the preceding twelve (12) months, a Related Party of the Covered Person. A “financial interest” includes all forms of direct and indirect compensation, remuneration, ownership or control of the entity. F. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. G. “NYU Langone Health Entity” means each individual entity that is part of NYU Langone Health. NYU as a whole is not an NYU Langone Health Entity for purposes of this Policy. H. “Officer” means any person described as an officer in the governing documents of the System or any NYU Langone Health Entity. I. “Related Party” means a Covered Person, a Relative of a Covered Person, or any entity in which a Covered Person or a Relative of a Covered Person has a or greater ownership or beneficial interest or, in the case of a partnership or professional corporation, a direct or indirect ownership interest in excess of five percent (). For purposes of this paragraph, “Covered Person” refers to both a Covered Person as defined in Section IV(B) above and a “Covered Person” of NYU as defined in NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators. J. “Related Party Transaction” means any transaction, agreement or any other arrangement in which a Related Party has a financial interest and in which the System, any other NYU Langone Health Entity, or NYU is a participant, except that the following do not constitute Related Party Transactions: (a) the transaction or the Related Party’s financial interest in the transaction is de minimis; (b) the transaction would not customarily be reviewed by the board or boards of similar organizations in the ordinary course 6 of business and is available to others on the same or similar terms; or (c) the transaction constitutes a benefit provided to a Related Party solely as a member of a class of the beneficiaries that the corporation intends to benefit as part of the accomplishment of its mission which benefit is available to all similarly situated members of the same class on the same terms; or (d) transactions related to compensation of employees or Trustees or reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by a Related Party on behalf of NYU Langone Health or NYU. K. “Relative” means a Covered Person’s (i) spouse or domestic partner, (ii) ancestors, brother or sister (whether whole or half blood), child (whether natural or adopted), grandchild, great grandchild; (iii) the spouse or domestic partner of a brother, sister, child, grandchild, or great grandchild; or (iv) other individuals residing in the person’s household. L. “Trustee” means a voting member of the governing body of the System or any NYU Langone Health Entity, including a voting member of the NYU School of Medicine or the NYU Long Island School of Medicine Advisory Boards. VII. Examples of Conflicts of Interest The following are situations that give rise to a Conflict of Interest and require disclosure to IACERM in accordance with this Policy. This list is by no means all inclusive. In case of uncertainty as to whether or not a Conflict of Interest exists, a Covered Person should disclose the matter to IACERM. Some potential Conflicts of Interest occur when: A. A Covered Person or a Relative of a Covered Person has a Material Interest in an entity or vendor that NYU Langone Health or NYU is contemplating doing business with (e.g., NYU Langone Health or NYU is contemplating purchasing or selling of goods, services, or real estate, or making or receiving a loan to or from such individual or entity, or is contemplating accepting a grant from such individual or entity for sponsored research). B. A Covered Person or a Relative of a Covered Person proposes that NYU Langone Health or NYU use or purchase goods in which the Covered Person has a proprietary interest (e.g., a Covered Person advocates the use of a device designed by a Relative of the Covered Person). C. A Covered Person, a Relative of the Covered Person, or any entity in which he or she has a Material Interest engages in competition with a service NYU Langone Health or NYU offers (e.g., by working for an organization which competes directly with NYU Langone Health or NYU or appropriating or diverting a business or financial opportunity that the Covered Person knows NYU Langone Health or NYU is pursuing or is considering pursuing or reasonably might be interested in pursuing if it were aware of the opportunity). D. A Covered Person, a Relative of the Covered Person, or any entity in which he or she has a Material Interest recruits any faculty member or employee of NYU Langone Health or NYU or solicits business which knowingly disturbs, or could be expected to disturb, the existing professional or business relationships of NYU Langone Health or NYU with any faculty member, employee, health care provider or referral source. E. A Covered Person proposes that NYU Langone Health or NYU hire or contract with a Relative of a Covered Person for a position or activity that is within the Board of Trustees’ or the Covered Person’s direct supervision or control. The employment of a Relative of a Covered Person by NYU Langone Health must be in accordance with NYU’s Policy on the Employment of Members of the Same Family. 7 F. A Covered Person solicits or accepts a gift, favor, loan or anything of monetary value from a contractor, vendor, patient, co worker, volunteer or other person seeking a benefit from NYU Langone Health or NYU if the offer or acceptance of the gift, favor or loan could be viewed by an independent observer as intending to influence NYU Langone Health or NYU to act favorably toward the person or entity, except for NYU Langone Health as specifically provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Acceptance and/or Solicitation of Gifts or Benefits From Vendors, Patients, or Other Third Parties. G. A Covered Person uses any assets, property or labor of NYU Langone Health or NYU to his or her personal advantage. H. A Covered Person discloses or uses any non public Confidential Information obtained in the course of discharging his or her duties and responsibilities at NYU Langone Health to his or her personal advantage or for a purpose that may be detrimental to NYU Langone Health or NYU. I. A Covered Person or a Relative of a Covered Person is the controlling owner of a company with which NYU Langone Health is considering engaging in a Related Party Transaction. J. A Covered Person or a Relative of a Covered Person has any ownership interest in a start up company that is seeking to license intellectual property rights from NYU Langone Health or NYU. VIII. Annual Report by the Vice President, IACERM The Vice President of IACERM will review all initial and annual disclosure forms and all Conflicts of Interest being managed and other Conflicts of Interest for which reporting is requested by the Audit and Compliance Committee, CEO, and/or General Counsel. The Vice President of IACERM will submit an annual report to the Audit and Compliance Committee regarding Conflicts of Interest involving Covered Persons, including any that may be reported on NYU’s or any NYU Langone Health Entities’ Form 990. A copy of this report will be sent to the General Counsel and Secretary of NYU. IX. Enforcement Violations of this Policy are subject to corrective action up to and including termination of association with NYU Langone Health in accordance with the policies and procedures applicable to the Covered Person. X. Questions Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the Vice President of IACERM. XI. Administration A. This Policy replaces the System’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest for Trustees and Key Employees dated February 20, 2018 and previously dated June 16, 2016, which replaced the System’s Conflict of Interest Policy dated April 1, 2015 and NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Trustee Conflicts of Interest dated April 23, 2009, as updated July 1, 2014. This Policy supersedes all other policies of NYU Langone Health Entities that cover Conflicts of Interest related to Trustees, Officers, or Key Persons and/or Related Party Transactions. B. Officers and Key Persons are subject to both this Policy and NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs. For any matter related to an Officer or Key Person, to the extent there is any issue about whether the requirements of this Policy conflict with the requirements of the Policy 8 on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs, this Policy and the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs are to be interpreted to assure compliance with this Policy. C. Covered Persons subject to this Policy may also be subject to NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators. For any matter related to a Covered Person also subject to NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators, this Policy is to be interpreted to assure compliance with NYU’s Conflicts of Interest Policy for Trustees, Officers, and Senior Administrators to the extent there is any issue about whether the requirements of this Policy conflict with the requirements of that policy.


Page 1 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: November 13, 2020 Contents: I.SummaryII.ApplicabilityIII.General PolicyIV.DisclosureV.Review and EvaluationVI.PHS and Other Sponsor RequirementsVII.Sub recipientsVIII.TrainingIX.DefinitionsX.EnforcementXI.AdministrationXII.Relationship to Other PoliciesI.SummaryNYU Langone Health is committed to operating in an ethical manner and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Even the appearance of a significant conflict of interest in research at NYU Langone Health can be damaging to the reputation of NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting provides a comprehensive approach for the identification, disclosure and oversight of all conflicts arising from the external interests and activities of NYU Langone Health and members of the NYU Langone Community, as well as the conduct of NYU Langone Health’s business. The Policies require employed faculty members, designated employees, officers and trustees to disclose financial relationships for review on an annual basis. This Policy is a part of the Policies and requires disclosure of financial interests on a per project basis by individuals participating in research and sponsored programs at NYU Langone Health. Under this Policy, individuals participating in research and other sponsored programs must disclose all financial interests that reasonably appear to be related to the individual’s responsibilities at NYU Langone Health and to the specific project. NYU Langone Health, through its Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU), will then review and evaluate such disclosures, determine if a conflict of interest exists, and determine whether such conflict can be managed or must be eliminated in order to permit the researcher to engage in the project. II.ApplicabilityThis Policy applies to all Investigators participating in a Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. All capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section XI below. Page 2 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs III.General PolicyA.Investigators participating in a Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYULangone Health have a primary obligation to serve the purposes to which NYU Langone Health is dedicated. As part of this obligation, Investigators have a duty to conduct research free of any appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. B.A “Conflict of Interest” exists in a Sponsored Project when NYU Langone Health’s designatedofficials reasonably determine that an Investigator’s Financial Interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the design, conduct or reporting of the Sponsored Project. C.To assure that all potential Conflicts of Interest are identified, all Investigators participating in aSponsored Project must submit disclosures of personal financial interests, of any value, of the Investigator and his or her Immediate Family that reasonably appear related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health before and during the life of the Sponsored Project. D.All potential Conflicts of Interest require disclosure, evaluation and either management orelimination under this Policy. E.Certain Conflicts of Interest are too significant to manage and must be eliminated. When anInvestigator has a Significant Financial Interest, the Investigator may not participate in a Sponsored Project. An exception to this policy may be made only when the Chief Scientific Officer of NYU Langone Health or the CIMU determine that Compelling Circumstances exist to merit an exception and a conflict management plan is adopted to maintain research integrity and serve the best interests of subjects enrolled in the research. IV.DisclosureInvestigators must submit annual and project specific disclosures as described below. Disclosures must be completed and submitted even if no Financial Interests are disclosed. Disclosures of Financial Interests must be made in specific amounts. For PHS Sponsored Projects, disclosures of Paid/Reimbursed Travel must specify each instance of paid or reimbursed travel at a minimum, as well as the purpose of each trip, the identity of each sponsor/organizer, its destination and its duration. A.Annual Disclosures. All Investigators who are part of the NYU Langone Community are requiredunder NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs to complete and submit an annual disclosure, which is reviewed in accordance with that Policy. B.Project Disclosure Upon Submission. Each Investigator planning to participate in a proposedSponsored Project must complete and submit a research financial interest disclosure when prompted to following submission of the Sponsored Project to the Office of Science & Research (e.g., the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA) or the IRB). In the disclosure, Investigators must disclose all Financial Interests that reasonably relate to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health and to the specific Sponsored Project. The CIMU review and evaluation as described in Section V below. C.Project Disclosure Upon Annual Continuations. Each Investigator participating in a SponsoredProject must also complete and submit an investigator financial interest disclosure at each annual continuation of the Sponsored Project to the Office of Science & Research. Disclosures with Financial Interests will be subject to the review and evaluation process outlined in Section V.A(iv) below. D. Project Disclosure New Financial Interests. While a Sponsored Project is on going, an Investigator must complete and submit an investigator financial interest disclosure to the Office of Science & Page 3 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Research for any new Financial Interest prior to acquiring such Financial Interest. The Investigator must not acquire the new Financial Interest unless and until the acquisition has been disclosed, reviewed, evaluated and permitted as contemplated by this Policy. E.Confidentiality. All disclosures will be kept confidential and disclosed only on a need to know basisas required to perform the review and evaluation required by this Policy and NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, and to meet NYU Langone Health’s disclosure and/or reporting requirements under applicable laws, regulations, grants and/or contracts. V.Review and Evaluation of Project DisclosuresA.Conflict of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) Review. The CIMU is responsible for the review ofeach disclosure of a Financial Interest to determine if it could give rise to a Conflict of Interest in the Sponsored Project, as described below. (i) No Potential Conflict of Interest. For disclosures of Financial Interests that the CIMU finds do notreasonably appear to give rise to a Conflict of Interest, the CIMU will advise the Office of Science &Research that there is no Conflict of Interest and no conflict management plan is required.(ii) Potential Conflict of Interest without Significant Financial Interest. For initial disclosures of aFinancial Interest that is not a Significant Financial Interest, the CIMU will determine if a Conflictof Interest exists. If so, the Investigator’s participation will generally be permitted, subject to anappropriate conflict management plan issued by the CIMU. Conflict management plans issued by theCIMU may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. No expenditures mayoccur on the Sponsored Project until the CIMU’s review and evaluation is complete and a conflictmanagement plan is agreed to by both the principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and theInvestigator with the disclosed Financial Interest, if a different individual.(iii) Potential Conflict of Interest with Significant Financial Interest. For initial disclosures of aSignificant Financial Interest that could give rise to a Conflict of Interest, the CIMU will make adetermination whether or not Compelling Circumstances exist to justify the Investigator’sparticipation in the Sponsored Project notwithstanding the disclosed Significant Financial Interest.For matters giving rise to a significant potential Conflict of Interest, the CIMU, in consultation withthe Office of Legal Counsel and/or the Chief Scientific Officer, will first use diligent efforts toeliminate or manage the conflict. If the CIMU is unable to eliminate or manage the conflict or ifrecommended by the Chief Scientific Officer, the CIMU may refer the matter to the Business Conflictof Interest Committee (BCOIC).If Compelling Circumstances are found, the CIMU will approve a conflict management plan ascontemplated below. If Compelling Circumstances are not found or a conflict management plan isnot approved or agreed to as provided in Section V.B below, the Conflict of Interest must beeliminated in order for the Investigator to be permitted to carry out the Sponsored Project. Noexpenditures may occur on the Sponsored Project until the CIMU’s review and evaluation is completeand a conflict management plan is agreed to by both the principal investigator on the SponsoredProject and the Investigator with the disclosed Significant Financial Interest, if a different individual;or until the Conflict of Interest has been eliminated.(iv) Previously Reviewed Disclosures. For disclosures of a Financial Interest that has previously beenreviewed and evaluated and is subject to a conflict management plan issued under this Policy, theCIMU may, in its discretion, approve the continuation of the conflict management plan. If the natureof the previously reviewed Financial Interest has changed or the amount materially increased, Page 4 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs however, the disclosed Financial Interest will be reviewed and evaluated by the CIMU under this Policy as an initial disclosure for the Sponsored Project of a Financial Interest as provided in (ii) and (iii) above, a new conflict management plan may be adopted, and the Investigator’s failure to disclose the change in the nature or amount of the previously reviewed Financial Interest will be treated as a violation of this Policy. B. Conflict Management Plan. If an Investigator’s participation in a Sponsored Project is permitted notwithstanding a Conflict of Interest, the Investigator’s participation must be subject to a conflict management plan issued by the CIMU. The purpose of the conflict management plan will be to foster transparency in related interests and relationships, maintain the objectivity of research design, conduct, and reporting, and best serve the rights and welfare of subjects enrolled in the research. Possible management strategies to be considered are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. The conflict management plan must be agreed to by both the principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and the Investigator with the disclosed Financial Interest, if a different individual. In its review of Human Subjects Research projects, the IRB will consider the conflict management plans. The Sponsored Project cannot commence until IRB approval is released following receipt of the final determination and/or conflict management plan under this Policy. The principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and the Investigator with the managed Conflict of Interest must comply with all terms in the conflict management plan for the duration of the Sponsored Project. The CIMU is responsible for monitoring the compliance with the conflict management plan on an ongoing basis until the completion of the Sponsored Project. C. Research Conflict of Interest Committee. Any matter under this Policy may be presented for review and evaluation by NYU Langone Health’s Research Conflict of Interest Committee (RCOIC). The RCOIC’s role is advisory to NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee, the Chief Scientific Officer, and the CIMU. D. Appeals to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. Determinations of the CIMU may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. Appeals must be in writing and submitted to the CIMU. The CIMU will provide copies of the appeal to the Chief Scientific Officer. Decisions of the Chief Scientific Officer are final. E. Timing. The review and evaluation of an Investigator’s disclosure and the issuance and implementation of any conflict management plan under this Policy must be completed prior to the expenditure of any awarded funds for the Sponsored Project or the commencement of the Investigator’s involvement in the Sponsored Project (including any enrollment of research subjects). VI. Disclosure of Interests in Publications and Presentations All Investigators must disclose their financial interests in publications and presentations whenever the Investigator has financial relationships with entities that could be perceived to influence, or that give the appearance of potentially influencing, what was included in the publication or presentation. Investigators with financial interests must adhere to any disclosure requirements in their conflict management plan and must comply with any disclosure requirements of the applicable journal or conference. If a disclosure requirement is not clear, Investigators should broadly disclose all applicable financial interests. Failure to make required disclosures or to comply with management plans is a violation of this Policy and will be cause for disciplinary action. VII. `Special PHS and Other Sponsor Requirements A. Research Sponsors often impose additional rules about conflicts of interest as a condition of providing funding. It is the policy of NYU Langone Health to comply with all such requirements, including Page 5 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs the PHS Regulations which apply to all research funded by a PHS agency (i.e., NIH, AHRQ, CDC, FDA, HRSA, SAMHSA, OG, OASH, ASPR, ATSDR, and IHS). This Policy is believed to be in compliance with the applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements, including the PHS Regulations. To the extent there is any issue about whether or not this Policy wholly complies with a Sponsor requirement, it is to be interpreted to assure compliance. Each Investigator is responsible for assuring his or her compliance with the requirements applicable to the Investigator’s specific Sponsored Project. B. For Sponsored Projects subject to the PHS Regulations (“PHS Sponsored Projects”), in addition to the review and evaluation in Section V, the additional requirements outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations apply. The additional requirements include the following: (i) A “PHS Conflict of Interest” exists when NYU Langone Health’s designated official(s) reasonably determines that a PHS Significant Financial Interest could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct, or reporting of a PHS Sponsored Project (see Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations of this document). (ii) PHS Conflict of Interest Findings. The CIMU is responsible for determining if a disclosure of a PHS Significant Financial Interest in a PHS Sponsored Project has resulted in a PHS Conflict of Interest. If a PHS Conflict of Interest is determined to exist, it shall be managed and/or eliminated as a Conflict of Interest in accordance with Section V. (iii) Retrospective Reviews/ Mitigation Reports. If an initial or ongoing disclosure of a PHS Significant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest for the PHS Sponsored Project is not disclosed or reviewed in a timely manner, the CIMU will review and evaluate the disclosure. If the CIMU makes a PHS Conflict of Interest determination for a late disclosure or review, it will issue a conflict management plan within 60 days of the disclosure or review, as applicable. When non compliance is found, the CIMU will conduct and document within 120 days of a determination of such non compliance, a retrospective review of the Investigator’s activities and the PHS Conflict of Interest. Examples of non compliance include failure of an Investigator to disclose a PHS Significant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner; failure of NYU Langone Health to review and manage a PHS Significant Financial Interest determined to constitute a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner; or failure of an Investigator to comply with the terms of a COI management plan relative to a PHS Conflict of Interest. This retrospective review will determine whether the PHS Sponsored Project, or any portion thereof conducted during the period of non compliance, was biased in the design, conduct, or reporting of such PHS Sponsored Project. If a retrospective review results in a finding of bias, the CIMU must file a mitigation report with the PHS sponsor. Retrospective reviews and mitigation reports, if required, must be completed by the CIMU in a timely manner. In any case in which the HHS determines that a PHS funded project of clinical research whose purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device, or treatment has been designed, conducted, or reported by an Investigator with a PHS Conflict of Interest that was not managed or reported as required by the regulation; NYU Langone Health must require the Investigator(s) involved to disclose the PHS Conflict of Interest in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. (iv) Public Access and Conflicts Reporting. The PHS Regulations impose public access and reporting requirements with respect to a PHS Conflict of Interest. Public access requirements include posting certain information about a PHS Conflict of Interest that NYU Langone Health’s placement on a publicly accessible Web site or provision of a written response to any requestor within five (5) business days. Conflicts reporting includes reporting obligations related to a PHS Conflict of Interest prior to NYU Langone Health’s expenditure of any funds for the project, reporting obligations related to PHS Conflict of Interest subsequent to the initial reporting (including annual FCOI reports) or for Page 6 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs PHS Conflict of Interest later disclosed or identified during a project, and reporting obligations related to a conflict mitigation plan or retrospective review. The CIMU, in collaboration with SPA and the principal investigator/project director of the applicable PHS Sponsored Project, is responsible for complying with any public access, reporting and/or other requirements required by the PHS Regulations arising from a finding of a PHS Conflict of Interest. The procedures governing NYU Langone Health’s review, evaluation, conflict management plans, retrospective reviews, mitigation reports, public access, and conflicts reporting for projects covered by the PHS Regulations are outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations. VIII.Sub recipientsInvestigators outside of the NYU Langone Community (e.g., sub grantees, sub contractors, collaborators or consultants) may also have Conflicts of Interest in a Sponsored Project. NYU Langone Health may subject any Investigators outside of the NYU Langone Community to the pertinent portions of this Policy and will subject such Investigator to this Policy when required by the Research Sponsor. In such cases, the outside Investigator’s institution must represent in writing that it has a written conflicts policy in effect that applies to its investigators, that the policy complies with all applicable Research Sponsor requirements, and that it will report applicable conflicts of interest to NYU Langone Health in the time period and including the disclosure requirements required by the Research Sponsor. If the institution cannot make this representation, the outside Investigator must agree to comply with this Policy, in which case NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer shall have discretion to determine how this Policy should be implemented and/or adjusted for the specific Sponsored Project. Additional procedures governing NYU Langone Health’s use of Investigators outside of the NYU Langone Community in projects covered by the PHS Regulations are outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations. IX.TrainingInvestigators involved in a Sponsored Project may be required by the CIMU and/or a Research Sponsor to periodically complete an appropriate conflict of interest training program prior to engaging in a Sponsored Project. For example, each Investigator participating in a PHS Sponsored Project must complete training regarding this Policy and the PHS Regulations prior to engaging in a PHS Sponsored Project, at least every four years thereafter, and as otherwise may be required by the CIMU. X.DefinitionsA. “Compelling Circumstances” means those facts that convince the Chief Scientific Officer and/orthe CIMU that an Investigator may participate in a Sponsored Project despite the existence of a Significant Financial Interest. Factors that may be evaluated by the CIMU in determining whether Compelling Circumstances are present are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. B. A “Conflict of Interest” exists in a Sponsored Project when NYU Langone Health’s designatedofficials reasonably determine that an Investigator’s Financial Interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the design, conduct or reporting of the Sponsored Project. C. A “Financial Interest” is held when an Investigator or a member of his or her Immediate Family hasa personal financial interest that reasonably appears to be related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health and includes all personal financial interests in the Research Sponsor or in any other Financially Interested Company or (ii) has Intellectual Property Rights covering Page 7 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs products or processes being used in the Sponsored Project. Examples of Financial Interests are Management, Board, or Employment Position, Ownership Interests, Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travel, Royalty Income, and Intellectual Property Rights, where: (i) A “Management, Board, or Employment Position” means a position or appointment to serve, ineither a personal or representative capacity, as a director, trustee, partner, executive, manager, officer,employee, or equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, at any outside entity.(ii) “Ownership Interests” are equity interests held, either directly or indirectly, including stock andstock options (or entitlement to the same); of any amount in either a publicly traded or non publicly traded entity. (Exception: Mutual Funds Interests of any amount in diversified investment vehicles,such as broad based publicly traded, diversified mutual funds and exchange traded funds, as long asthe Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family members, collectively, do not have a or greaterdirect or indirect interest in the vehicle and do not have a Management, Board, or EmploymentPosition in the vehicle, are not Ownership Interests.)(iii) “Consulting Compensation” means salary, consulting fees, honoraria, paid authorship, lecture fees,other emoluments, stock, stock options, royalties or “in kind” compensation directly or indirectlyreceived from an entity (or entitlement to the same), whether in connection with a Management,Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, or service on a scientific advisory board,data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinical trial, executive committee for a clinicaltrial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any other purpose, that have been received in thepast calendar year or are expected to be received in the current or next calendar year.(iv) “Paid/Reimbursed Travel” means the occurrence and value of any paid/sponsored (i.e., sponsoredtravel is that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to the Investigator so thatthe exact monetary value may not be readily available), and/or reimbursed travel, whether inconnection with a Management, Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, orservice on a scientific advisory board, data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinicaltrial, executive committee for a clinical trial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any otherpurpose, that have been received in the past calendar year (i.e., no less than the past 12 months) orare expected to be received in the current or next calendar year.(v) “Royalty Income” means payments linked to product sales, or the written contractual right to receivefuture royalties, directly or indirectly, under an issued or pending patent, license or copyright, thathas been received in the past calendar year or is expected to be received in the current or next calendaryear. For the purpose of this Policy, Royalty Income includes all income received by an Investigatorfrom NYU in accordance with the NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement ofPolicy on Intellectual Property.(vi) An “Intellectual Property Right” is an issued or pending patent, license or copyright coveringproducts or processes being used in the Sponsored Project and includes, for the purpose of this Policy,the right to income from NYU in connection with a patent, license or copyright held by or to be heldby NYU (for further information, see NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statementof Policy on Intellectual Property).The following are not Financial Interests under this Policy: (a) Salary from NYU Langone Health and cost related payments for services or reimbursementsfrom NYU Langone Health.(b) Payments to NYU Langone Health, or via NYU Langone Health to the Investigator, which are Page 8 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs directly related to the reasonable costs incurred in the conduct of a Sponsored Project or to the payment of indirect costs and are specified in a grant, agreement or contract between NYU Langone Health and the Research Sponsor. (c) Income or Paid/Reimbursed Travel from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by, and income from service on advisory committees or review panels for, a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. D. “Financially Interested Company” means an outside entity which would reasonably appear to affect or be affected by the conduct or outcome of a Sponsored Project at NYU Langone Health. This term includes: (1) the manufacturer or distributor (including business partners and affiliates) of any drug or device or other product or process being used in the Sponsored Project and (2) any entity acting as the agent of the Research Sponsor or another Financially Interested Company (e.g., a contract research organization). The term also may include a company that provides direct and primary competition for the investigational product if the Investigator actually knows that the financial interests of the company would reasonably appear to affect or be affected by the Sponsored Project. E. “Human Subjects Research” means research involving an Investigator’s intervention or interaction with a living human individual or with an individual’s identifiable information at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health as defined by the IRB under its policies. F. “Immediate Family” means the person’s spouse, domestic partner, person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, or other family members residing in the person’s household. G. “Institutional Responsibilities” means an Investigator’s professional responsibilities on behalf of NYU Langone Health, including research, research consultation, teaching, professional practice, institutional committee memberships, and service on panels such as institutional review boards or data and safety monitoring boards. H. “IRB” refers to NYU Langone Health’s Institutional Review Board and any other authorized Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects Research conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. I. An “Investigator” is any person in the NYU Langone Community, regardless of title or position, who is any of the following in connection with a Sponsored Project at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health: 1. Responsible for the designing, conducting or reporting of the Sponsored Project; 2. Proposing to be the principal investigator/program director, or key personnel in a grant application for the Sponsored Project submitted by NYU Langone Health; 3. Serving as the principal investigator/program director, co investigator, sub investigator, or key personnel on the Sponsored Project; or 4. Listed as an investigator or coordinator on an IRB application for the Sponsored Project. Investigator also includes outside persons (e.g., sub grantees, contractors, collaborators or consultants of NYU Langone Health) who are determined by NYU Langone Health, in consultation with the principal investigator/program director of the Sponsored Project, to be responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of the Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. Section VIII of this Policy outlines the circumstances under which such outside Investigators will be required to comply with the pertinent portions of this Policy. Page 9 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs J.“Non Human Subjects Research” means any basic research, animal research, and other researchconducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health that is not Human Subjects Research, regardless of the source of funding. K. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals(including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy also has been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; therefore, for purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. L.“NYU Langone Community” means NYU Langone Health faculty, including adjunct, clinical,voluntary and visiting faculty; researchers, including persons participating in research at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health; employees; professional staff, including medical, dental and nursing staff; volunteers; fellows, trainees and post doctoral appointees; students; and consultants, vendors and contractors. M.“Office of Science & Research” means NYU Langone Health’s Office of Science & Research. Theoffices in the Office of Science & Research that may be responsible for the review and administration of a Sponsored Project proposal include the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA), the Clinical Research Support Unit (CRSU), the Office of Industrial Liaison (OIL), the Institutional Review Board (IRB), the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), and the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC). N.“PHS” means the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, andany components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated, including the National Institutes of Health (NIH). See Section VII.A for a list of other PHS agencies. O.“PHS Regulations” means the regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Health and HumanServices (HHS) entitled “Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought and Responsible Prospective Contractors,” (see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/coi/), as the same may be amended from time to time. P.“PHS Sponsored Projects” means Sponsored Projects subject to the PHS Regulations.Q.“Pre Clinical Research” means any Non Human Subjects Research which is reasonablyanticipated (1) to be a component of a submission to the FDA related to a product or process to be tested on human subjects (including an IND or IDE submission) or (2) to develop into research involving human subjects within the coming twelve (12) months. R.A “Research Sponsor” is any government agency (federal, state, or municipal), foundation, not for profit or for profit entity providing either monetary or material support for a Sponsored Project. S.“Significant Financial Interest” is defined as follows:(i) For a Human Subjects Research project, a Financial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” ifit is (a) any Management, Board, or Employment Position (including as a director, trustee, partner,senior executive, officer or employee); (b) Ownership Interests (including stocks, options andwarrants) of greater than $10,000 in a publicly held company; (c) Ownership Interests of any amountin a privately held company; (d) Consulting Compensation (including salary, consulting income andhonoraria), Paid/Reimbursed Travel for personal benefit as determined by the CIMU (e.g., a gift or atrip whose primary purpose is pleasure or celebration), and Royalty Income, when aggregated, ofgreater than $25,000 in any relevant year; or (e) any Intellectual Property Right being tested,developed, or validated in the Human Subjects Research.Page 10 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs (ii) For a Pre Clinical Research project, a Financial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” if it is(a) any Management, Board, or Employment; (b) Ownership Interests of greater than $10,000 in apublicly held company; (c) Ownership Interest of any amount in a privately held company; or (d)Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travel for personal benefit as determined by the CIMU,and Royalty Income, when aggregated, of greater than $25,000 in any relevant year.(iii) For all Non Human Subjects Research (other than Pre Clinical Research) or Sponsored Programs, aFinancial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” if it is (a) any Outside Position; (b)Ownership Interests of greater than $25,000 in a publicly held company; (c) Ownership Interests ofany amount in a privately held company, or (d) Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travelfor personal benefit as determined by the CIMU, and Royalty Income, when aggregated, of greaterthan $40,000 in any relevant year.(iv) “PHS Significant Financial Interest” means:(a) A financial interest consisting of one or more of the following interests of the Investigator(and those of the Investigator's spouse and dependent children) that reasonably appears to berelated to the Investigator's Institutional Responsibilities:(1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interest exists ifthe value of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months preceding thedisclosure and the value of any equity interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure,when aggregated, exceeds $5,000. For purposes of this definition, remuneration includessalary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees,honoraria, paid authorship); equity interest includes any stock, stock option, or otherownership interest, as determined through reference to public prices or other reasonablemeasures of fair market value;(2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interestexists if the value of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve monthspreceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or when the Investigator (orthe Investigator's spouse or dependent children) holds any equity interest (e.g., stock, stockoption, or other ownership interest); or(3) Intellectual property rights and interests (e.g., patents, copyrights), upon receipt ofincome related to such rights and interests; or(b) The occurrence in the twelve (12) months preceding the disclosure of any reimbursed orsponsored travel ( i.e., that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to theInvestigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available), related to theirInstitutional Responsibilities; provided, however, that this does not apply to travel that isreimbursed or sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of highereducation as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center, ora research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education.(v) The following are not PHS Significant Financial Interests under this Policy:(a) salary, royalties, or other remuneration paid by New York University or NYU LangoneHealth to the Investigator if the Investigator is currently employed or otherwise appointed byNew York University or NYU Langone Health, including intellectual property rights assignedto New York University or NYU Langone Health and agreements to share in royalties relatedPage 11 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs to such rights; (b) income from investment vehicles, such as mutual funds and retirement accounts, as long asthe Investigator does not directly control the investment decisions made in these vehicles;(c) income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by a Federal, state, orlocal government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), anacademic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with aninstitution of higher education; and(d) income from service on advisory committees or review panels for a Federal, state, or localgovernment agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), anacademic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with aninstitution of higher education.See Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations of this document. T. “Sponsored Program” means any activity conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health that receives funding from outside NYU Langone Health other than a Human Subjects Research project and a Non Human Subjects Research project, including education and service activities. (Exception: CME Activities Commercial support of any certified CME activity is not a Sponsored Program.) U. “Sponsored Project” means any Human Subjects Research project, any Non Human Subjects Research project, or any Sponsored Program. XI.EnforcementA.Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination ofemployment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the respective Investigator. B.A new proposal or continuation submission for a Sponsored Project will not be considered complete,and NYU Langone Health will not proceed with a Sponsored Project or submit a proposal to a Research Sponsor, unless all Investigators participating in the Sponsored Project have both (i) completed and submitted an annual disclosure as provided in the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs within the previous twelve (12) months and (ii) completed and submitted an investigator financial interest disclosure for the Sponsored Project as required by this Policy. Failure to make timely submissions will result in delays. C.If there is a determination by the Chief Scientific Officer that the failure of an Investigator to complywith this Policy has biased the design, conduct, or reporting of a Sponsored Project, NYU Langone Health will promptly notify the Research Sponsor and any other potentially affected party, require other notifications (e.g., to journals and sponsors of public presentations) as appropriate, and take appropriate other actions to maintain appropriate objectivity in the Sponsored Project. D.In addition, in any case where the Sponsored Project’s purpose is to evaluate the safety oreffectiveness of a drug, medical device or treatment and the Sponsored Project has been designed, conducted or reported by an Investigator with a Conflict of Interest that was not managed or reported to NYU Langone Health as required, the CIMU will notify the Chief Scientific Officer. Additionally, the CIMU may require the Investigator involved to disclose the Conflict of Interest in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. XII.AdministrationPage 12 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs A.Questions. Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counselor the CIMU. B.Reporting. The CIMU must provide reports of its activities under this Policy to the Chief ScientificOfficer and NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee on an annual basis. C.Records Retention. Records related to this Policy will be maintained in accordance with NYULangone Health’s Policy on Record Retention as in effect from time to time. In addition, the CIMU will maintain records of all disclosures it receives, all determinations made, all conflict management plans, all final decisions, and all other actions under this Policy for the longest of (i) three (3) years from the date of submission of final expenditure reports for the Sponsored Project, (ii) any other period required by the research agreement with the Research Sponsor, or (iii) until the resolution of any action involving those records. Additional procedures governing NYU Langone Health’s records retention responsibilities for projects covered by the PHS Regulations are outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations. XIII.Relationship to Other PoliciesA.This Policy replaces the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs datedApril 1, 2009, as previously updated August 24, 2012, August 1, 2014, November 1, 2016, December 1, 2017, and October 17, 2018. A.This Policy is intended to supplement, but not replace, other policies and guidelines applicable tothe Investigator, including NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. B.This Policy is intended to implement for NYU Langone Health the applicable provisions of the NYUPolicy on Academic Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment dated August 24, 2012, as it may be updated from time to time. This Policy, together with NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations, is also intended, without reference to other NYU and/or NYU Langone Health policies, to meet NYU Langone Health’s obligations to maintain a policy on financial conflicts of interest in research funded by federal sponsoring agencies (including PHS and the National Science Foundation). Page 1of 10 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations Issuing Department: Conflict of Interest Management Unit Effective Date: December 5, 2014 Last Update: August 24, 2018 I.SummaryNYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs (the Policy) sets forth NYU Langone Health’s policies on the disclosure, review, evaluation and determinations related to potential conflicts of interests arising out of NYU Langone Health’s research and other sponsored programs. Under Section VI.A of the Policy, it is the policy of NYU Langone Health to comply with all rules about conflicts of interest imposed by Research Sponsors as a condition of providing funding to NYU Langone Health. These Procedures are intended to ensure compliance with the regulations adopted by the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (the PHS Regulations). These Procedures supplement the Policy and apply to all Sponsored Projects subject to the PHS Regulations. II.DefinitionsCapitalized terms not defined in these Procedures are defined in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. A. As provided in Section IX.M of the Policy, “PHS” means the Public Health Service of the U.S.Department of Health and Human Services, and any components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated. The following offices/agencies are part of PHS: •Administration for Children and Families (ACF)•Administration for Community Living (ACL)•Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)•Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR)•Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)•Food and Drug Administration (FDA)•Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)•Indian Health Service (IHS)•National Institutes of Health (NIH)•Office of Global Affairs (OGA)•Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health (OASH)•Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR)•Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)B. As provided in Sections VI.B(i) and IX.N of the Policy, a “PHS Conflict of Interest” existswhen NYU Langone Health’s designated official(s) reasonably determines that a Financial Interest that rises to a PHS Significant Financial Interest could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct, or reporting of a Sponsored Project subject to the PHS Regulations. APPENDIX2 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations C. As provided in Section IX.O of the Policy, “PHS Regulations” means the regulations issued bythe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) entitled “Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought and Responsible Prospective Contractors,” (see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/coi/), as the same may be amended from time to time. D. “PHS Significant Financial Interest” means:(i) A financial interest consisting of one or more of the following interests of the Investigator (andthose of the Investigator's spouse and dependent children) that reasonably appears to berelated to the Investigator's Institutional Responsibilities:(a) With regard to any publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interest exists if thevalue of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months preceding thedisclosure and the value of any equity interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure,when aggregated, exceeds $5,000. For purposes of this definition, remuneration includessalary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consultingfees, honoraria, paid authorship); equity interest includes any stock, stock option, or otherownership interest, as determined through reference to public prices or other reasonablemeasures of fair market value;(b) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interest existsif the value of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months precedingthe disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or when the Investigator (or theInvestigator's spouse or dependent children) holds any equity interest (e.g., stock, stockoption, or other ownership interest); or(c) Intellectual property rights and interests (e.g., patents, copyrights), upon receipt of incomerelated to such rights and interests; or(ii) The occurrence in the twelve (12) months preceding the disclosure of any reimbursed orsponsored travel ( i.e., that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed tothe Investigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available), related totheir Institutional Responsibilities; provided, however, that this does not apply to travel that isreimbursed or sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency, an institution ofhigher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medicalcenter, or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education.The following are not PHS Significant Financial Interests under this Policy: (a) salary, royalties, or other remuneration paid by New York University or NYU LangoneHealth to the Investigator if the Investigator is currently employed or otherwise appointedby New York University or NYU Langone Health, including intellectual property rightsassigned to New York University or NYU Langone Health and agreements to share inroyalties related to such rights;(b) income from investment vehicles, such as mutual funds and retirement accounts, as longas the Investigator does not directly control the investment decisions made in thesevehicles; 3 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations (c) income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education; and (d) income from service on advisory committees or review panels for a Federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. E. “PHS Sponsored Project” means any Sponsored Project subject to the PHS Regulations, including any Sponsored Project funded by PHS (e.g., the NIH) that is covered by the requirements of the PHS regulations, and any Sponsored Project funded by a non PHS Research Sponsor that has incorporated the requirements of the PHS Regulations. III. Disclosure Section IV of the Policy outlines the disclosure requirements for Investigators participating in Sponsored Projects conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. These disclosure requirements apply to Investigators participating in PHS Sponsored Projects. In addition to the requirements in Section IV of the Policy, for disclosures of Financial Interests in the form of Paid/Reimbursed Travel by Investigator in PHS Sponsored Projects, such disclosures must specify for each disclosed travel reimbursement and travel paid at a minimum, the purpose of each trip, the identity of each sponsor/organizer, its destination and its duration. IV. Review and Evaluation of Disclosures Section V of the Policy outlines the procedures under which NYU Langone Health reviews and evaluates each disclosure made by an Investigator participating in a Sponsored Project to determine if a disclosed Financial Interest could give rise to a Conflict of Interest in the Sponsored Project and to review and evaluate the disclosure to determine if the Investigator may participate in the Sponsored Project and, if participation is permitted, to implement a conflict management plan. These review and evaluation requirements apply to disclosures by Investigators participating in PHS Sponsored Projects. In addition to the requirements outlined in Section V of the Policy, the following additional procedures apply for disclosures by Investigators participating in PHS Sponsored Projects: A. CIMU’s Initial Review. Pursuant to Sections V.A of the Policy, the Conflict of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) has responsibility for the review and evaluation of each disclosure of Financial Interest to determine if a potential Conflict of Interest exists. In addition to the requirements outlined in Section V.A of the Policy, the CIMU is responsible for Investigators in PHS Sponsored Projects for determining (i) whether any disclosed Financial Interest is a PHS Significant Financial Interest, and (ii) whether any PHS Significant Financial Interest is “related” to a PHS Sponsored Project and could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest in a PHS Sponsored Project. (i) No PHS Significant Financial Interest. When CIMU determines that all disclosures of Financial Interests for a Sponsored Project are not PHS Significant Financial Interests, the CIMU will advise the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration that there is no PHS Conflict of Interest present. 4 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations (ii) “Relatedness” and PHS Conflict of Interest. a. When CIMU determines that certain disclosures are PHS Significant Financial Interests, the CIMU will determine if the Investigator’s PHS Significant Financial Interests are “related” to the PHS Sponsored Project. b. An Investigator’s PHS Significant Financial Interest is “related” to PHS Sponsored Project when the CIMU reasonably determines that the PHS Significant Financial Interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the PHS Sponsored Project or is in an entity whose financial interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the research. c. For disclosures of PHS Significant Financial Interest that the CIMU determines are “related” to a specific PHS Sponsored Project, the CIMU will review and evaluate the matter as a potential PHS Conflict of Interest under Section IV.B. below. d. For disclosures of PHS Significant Financial Interest that the CIMU determines are not “related” to the PHS Sponsored Project, the CIMU will advise the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration and the Investigator, as appropriate, that there is no “related” PHS Significant Financial Interest present and no PHS Conflict of Interest. The CIMU may involve the Investigator, the Investigator’s department, the Senior Vice President and Vice Dean for Science (or her designee), the Business Conflict of Interest Committee, the Research Conflict of Interest Committee, the Office of Science & Research and/or the Office of Legal Counsel in its evaluations under this Section IV.A. B. CIMU’s PHS Conflict of Interest Findings. For disclosures of PHS Significant Financial Interest that the CIMU determines are “related” to a specific PHS Sponsored Project in Section IV.A. above, the CIMU must determine if the disclosure could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest in the PHS Sponsored Project. A PHS Conflict of Interest exists when the CIMU reasonably determines that the PHS Significant Financial Interest could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the PHS Sponsored Project. In determining whether an Investigator’s PHS Significant Financial Interest could create a PHS Conflict of Interest, the CIMU will consider the role of the Investigator and the opportunity (if any) to bias the results, the nature of the research being proposed, and the value of the PHS Significant Financial Interest in relation to the size and value of the entity. In addition, the CIMU may also consider the following factors: 1. The magnitude of the PHS Significant Financial Interests (e.g., the amount of consulting, or the percentage or value of equity); or 2. The number and nature of relationships an Investigator has with an entity. Multiple entanglements can create a relationship with an outside entity that is stronger than the sum of the parts; or 3. Whether the research is of a basic or fundamental nature directed at understanding basic scientific processes; or 4. Whether the goal of the research is to validate or invalidate a particular approach or methodology that could affect the value of the PHS Significant Financial Interest; or 5 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations 5.Whether the degree of replication and verification of research results is such that immediatecommercialization or clinical application is not likely; or6.Whether the goal of the project is a comparative evaluation of a technology in which anInvestigator has a PHS Significant Financial Interest; or7.Where the PHS Significant Financial Interest is in the sponsor of the research, and thesponsor is a licensee of the Investigator’s technology, the amount of commercializationpayments received by the faculty member from that technology, both currently or in thefuture; or8.Whether the goal of the research is to evaluate an invention linked to the PHS SignificantFinancial Interest (such as where the PHS Significant Financial Interest is a patent, or aninterest in a company that has licensed the invention); or9.Whether the research involves human subjects; or10. Where the research involves human subjects, whether there are double blind conditions or theinvolvement of a data and safety monitoring board; or11. Where the PHS Significant Financial Interest is in a privately held company, whether theresearch could have a significant impact on the company’s business or financial outlook orwhether the Investigator’s PHS Significant Financial Interest could result in the Investigatorhaving influence over company decisions; or12. Whether other scientific groups are independently pursuing similar questions; or13. Whether sufficient external review of the research conducted and the reporting of researchresults exist to mitigate undue bias; or14. Whether the project involves a subaward to an entity in which the Investigator has a PHSSignificant Financial Interest.For all reviews of potential PHS Conflict of Interest, the CIMU’s finding will be documented and will be included in any conflict management plan approved by the CIMU under Section IV.C. below. The CIMU may involve the Investigator, the Investigator’s department, the Research Conflict of Interest Committee, the Office of Science & Research and/or the Office of Legal Counsel in its evaluations under this Section IV.B. C. PHS Conflict Management Plan. Section V.B. of the Policy outlines the procedures related toconflict management plans issued by the CIMU in the event an Investigator’s participation in a PHS Sponsored Project is permitted notwithstanding a PHS Conflict of Interest. There are no additional requirements for PHS Sponsored Projects other than that the CIMU’s finding of a PHS Conflict of Interest will be included in the conflict management plan approved by the CIMU. The CIMU is responsible for monitoring the compliance with all PHS conflict management plans on an ongoing basis until the completion of the PHS Sponsored Project. For PHS Sponsored Projects requiring IRB review, these conflict management plans are to be considered as part of the IRB’s review. 6 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations D. Research Conflict of Interest Committee. Any matter under this Procedure may be presented by CIMU, in its discretion, for an advisory review and evaluation by NYU Langone Health’s Research Conflict of Interest Committee (RCOIC). E. Appeals to the Senior Vice President and Vice Dean for Science. In accordance with Section V.D. of the Policy, determinations by the CIMU related to a finding of PHS Conflict of Interest may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Senior Vice President and Vice Dean for Science. Appeals must be in accordance with the requirements of Section V.D. of the Policy. Decisions of the Senior Vice President and Vice Dean for Science are final. F. Timing. The disclosure, review and evaluation of an Investigator’s disclosure of a Financial Interest related to a PHS Sponsored Project and the issuance and implementation of any conflict management plan as outlined above must be completed prior to any expenditure on the PHS Sponsored Project or the commencement of the Investigator’s involvement in the PHS Sponsored Project. For disclosures prior to the commencement of the PHS Sponsored Project, no expenditures on PHS Sponsored Project will be permitted until the Investigator has complied with the disclosure requirements of the Policy and has agreed, in writing, to comply with any plans determined by the CIMU necessary to manage the PHS Conflict of Interest. Whenever, in the course of an ongoing PHS Sponsored Project, an Investigator who is new to participating in the project discloses a PHS Significant Financial Interest or an existing Investigator discloses a new PHS Significant Financial Interest to NYU Langone Health, the CIMU will, within sixty (60) days: review the disclosure of the PHS Significant Financial Interest; determine whether it is “related” to PHS Sponsored Project; determine whether a PHS Conflict of Interest exists; and, if so, implement a conflict management plan that will specify the actions taken to manage such PHS Conflict of Interest. G. Reporting. The CIMU will communicate with the PHS Awarding Component to notify it of the existence and the nature of a PHS Conflict of Interest and whether the PHS Conflict of Interest has been managed, reduced, or eliminated. See Section VI below. H. Record Keeping. The CIMU will keep a record of Investigator disclosures of financial interests and any review of, and response to, such disclosure and all actions under this Procedure. Such records will be maintained and kept for three years from the date the final expenditures report is submitted for grants, for three years from the date of final payment for contracts, or, where applicable, for time periods as otherwise specified in relevant PHS Regulations. V. Public Accessibility to Information Related to PHS Conflicts of Interest CIMU, on behalf of NYU Langone Health, will ensure public accessibility, by written response to any requestor within five (5) business days of a request, of information concerning any PHS Significant Financial Interest disclosed that meets the following three criteria: (i) The PHS Significant Financial Interest was disclosed and is still held by the senior/key personnel. Senior/key personnel are the PD/PI and any other person identified as senior key personnel by NYU Langone Health in the grant application, progress report or any other report submitted to the PHS by NYU Langone Health; (ii) The CIMU has determined that the PHS Significant Financial Interest is “related” to the PHS Sponsored Project (see Section IV.A(ii) above); and (iii) The CIMU has determined that the PHS Significant Financial Interest is a PHS Conflict of Interest. 7 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations The information that the CIMU, on behalf of NYU Langone Health, will make available in a written response to any requestor within five (5) business days of request will include, at a minimum, the following: (i) The Investigator’s name; (ii) The Investigator’s title and role with respect to the research project; (iii) The name of the entity in which the PHS Significant Financial Interest is held; (iv) The nature of the PHS Significant Financial Interest; (v) The approximate dollar value of the PHS Significant Financial Interest in the following ranges: $0 $4,999; $5,000 9,999; $10,000 $19,999; amounts between $20,000 $100,000 by increments of $20,000; amounts above $100,000 by increments of $50,000), or a statement that the interest is one whose value cannot be readily determined through reference to public prices or other reasonable measures of fair market value; and (vi) A description of how the financial interest relates to NIH funded research and the basis for NYU Langone Health’s determination that the PHS Significant Financial Interest conflicts with such research. When NYU Langone Health responds to written requests for the purposes of public accessibility, it will ascertain from the Investigator that the information provided is current as of the date of the correspondence, and will note in its written response that the information is subject to updates, on at least an annual basis and within sixty (60) days of NYU Langone Health’s identification of a new PHS Conflict of Interest, which should be requested subsequently by the requestor. Information concerning a PHS Conflict of Interest will remain available, for responses to written requests for at least three (3) years from the date that the information was most recently updated. VI. Reporting of PHS Conflicts of Interest Prior to the expenditure of any funds under a PHS Sponsored Project, the CIMU, in collaboration with the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration, will provide to the PHS Awarding Component a PHS Conflict of Interest report (i.e., a new FCOI report) compliant with PHS Regulations regarding any Investigator’s PHS Significant Financial Interest found to give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest and will ensure that the Investigator has agreed to and implemented the corresponding management plan. While the award is ongoing (including any extensions with or without funds), the CIMU, in collaboration with the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration, will provide to the PHS Awarding Component an annual PHS Conflict of Interest report that addresses the status of the PHS Conflict of Interest (i.e. whether conflict is still being managed or why it no longer exists) and any changes in the management plan. For any PHS Significant Financial Interest that is identified as conflicting subsequent to an initial PHS Conflict of Interest report during an ongoing PHS Sponsored Project (e.g., upon the participation of an Investigator who is new to the research project or a new PHS Significant Financial Interest), NYU Langone Health will provide to the PHS Awarding Component, within sixty days, a new PHS Conflict of Interest report regarding the PHS Conflict of Interest and ensure that NYU Langone Health has implemented a management plan and the Investigator has agreed to the relevant management plan. VII. Subrecipient Requirements NYU Langone Health will, as part of a written subaward with a subrecipient, contractor or collaborator under a PHS prime award, establish whether the Policy applies or whether the financial conflict of interest 8 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations policy of the subrecipient will apply to the subrecipient, contractor or collaborator’s Investigator(s). If the subrecipient, contractor or collaborator relies on its conflicts of interest policy, the subrecipient, contractor or collaborator will certify as part of the subrecipient agreement, that its policy complies with 42 CFR Part 50 and 45 CFR Part 94, as appropriate. In either case, the subaward will include time periods to meet the disclosure and/or financial conflict of interest reporting requirements of NYU Langone Health under the PHS Regulations. The subrecipient, contractor or collaborator’s institution shall be responsible for having its relevant Investigators provide to NYU Langone Health the appropriate disclosures at the time of application or as required. Pursuant to Section VII of the Policy, if the subrecipient cannot make this representation, the outside Investigator must agree to comply with this Policy, in which case NYU Langone Health’s Senior Vice President and Vice Dean for Science will have discretion to determine how this Policy should be implemented and/or adjusted for the specific PHS Sponsored Project. Consistent with the PHS Regulations, NYU Langone Health will make publicly accessible any PHS Conflicts of Interest involving a subrecipient, contractor or collaborator investigator as outlined in Section V above and will report each PHS Conflict of Interest involving subrecipient, contractor or collaborator investigator as outlined in Section VI above. VIII.Training RequirementsEach Investigator must complete training on NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflict of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs prior to engaging in a PHS Sponsored Project and when any of the following circumstances apply: 1) NYU Langone Health revises the Policy or these Procedures in any manner that affects therequirements of Investigators (training will be completed in the manner and within the time framespecified in communications by CIMU announcing such changes);2) An Investigator is new to NYU Langone Health (training must be completed within 30 days ofjoining NYU Langone Health); or3) NYU Langone Health finds that an Investigator is not in compliance with this Procedure to NYULangone Health’s Conflict of Interest Policy or a management plan issued under this Procedure(training must be completed within 30 days in the manner specified by the CIMU).In addition, each Investigator must complete the training at least every four years and as otherwise may be required by the CIMU. IX.Failure to ComplySection VI(B)(iv) of the Policy outlines the consequences for failures to comply with the requirements of this policy; non compliance includes failure of an Investigator to disclose a PHS Significant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner, failure of NYU Langone Health to review and manage a PHS Significant Financial Interest determined to constitute a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner, or failure of an Investigator to comply with the terms of a COI management plan relative to a PHS Conflict of Interest. 1.Review. If an initial or ongoing disclosure for the PHS Sponsored Project of a PHSSignificant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest is not disclosed in a 9 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations timely manner, the CIMU will, within sixty (60) days: review the disclosure of the PHS Significant Financial Interest; determine whether it is “related” to a PHS Sponsored Project; determine whether a PHS Conflict of Interest exists; and, if so, implement a conflict management plan that will specify the actions taken to manage such PHS Conflict of Interest. Depending on the nature of the PHS Significant Financial Interest, the CIMU may determine that additional interim measures are necessary with regard to NYU Langone Health’s participation in the PHS Sponsored Project between the date of disclosure and the completion of NYU Langone Health's review and determination. 2.Retrospective Reviews/Mitigation Reports. For non compliance, such as failure by theInvestigator to disclose a PHS Significant Financial Interest that is determined by NYU Langone Health to constitute a PHS Conflict of Interest; failure by NYU Langone Health to review or manage such a financial conflict of interest; or failure by the Investigator to comply with a financial conflict of interest management plan, the CIMU will, within 120 days of NYU Langone Health's determination of noncompliance, complete a retrospective review of the Investigator's activities and the PHS Sponsored Project(s) to determine whether any PHS Sponsored Project, or portion thereof, conducted during the time period of the noncompliance, was biased in the design, conduct, or reporting of such research. The CIMU must document the retrospective review. Such documentation will include, but not necessarily be limited to, all of the following key elements: (1) Project number; (2) Project title; (3) PD/PI or contact PD/PI if a multiple PD/PI model is used; (4) Name of the Investigator with the PHS Conflict of Interest; (5) Name of the entity with which the Investigator has a financial conflict of interest; (6) Reason(s) for the retrospective review; (7) Detailed methodology used for the retrospective review (e.g., methodology of the review process, composition of the review panel, documents reviewed); (8) Findings of the review; and (9) Conclusions of the review. Based on the results of the retrospective review, if appropriate, the CIMU will update the previously submitted PHS Conflict of Interest report, specifying the actions that will be taken to manage the PHS Conflict of Interest going forward. If bias is found, the CIMU will notify the PHS Awarding Component promptly and submit a mitigation report to the PHS Awarding Component. The mitigation report must include, at a minimum, the key elements documented in the retrospective review above and a description of the impact of the bias on the Sponsored Project and NYU Langone Health's plan of action or actions taken to eliminate or mitigate the effect of the bias (e.g., impact on the research project; extent of harm done, including any qualitative and quantitative data to support any actual or future harm; and/or analysis of whether the research project is salvageable). Thereafter, the CIMU will submit PHS Conflict of Interest reports annually, as specified elsewhere in this Procedure. In any case in which the PHS determines that an NIH funded project of clinical research whose purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device, or treatment has been designed, conducted, or reported by an Investigator with a PHS Conflict of Interest that was not managed or reported as required by the regulation, NYU Langone Health must require the Investigator(s) involved to disclose the PHS Conflict of Interest in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. Depending on the nature of the PHS Conflict of Interest, the CIMU may determine that additional interim measures are necessary with regard to the Investigator's participation in the PHS Sponsored Project between the date that the PHS Conflict of Interest or the Investigator's noncompliance is determined and the completion of the retrospective review. 10 Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations X.QuestionsAny questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the CIMU. XI.VersionThis Procedure replaces the Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Covered by the PHS Regulations dated December 5, 2014.


1 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: December 31, 2019 Contents: I. Applicability II. General Policy III. Disclosure IV. Review and Evaluation V. Policy A. Definition B. Policy and Discussion 1. Significant Physical Presence 2. Outside Activities 3. Responsibilities Regarding Academic Freedom 4. Appropriate Use of NYU and NYU Langone Health Resources 5. Inventions 6. Permitted Time to Engage in External Activities 7. Outside Consulting and Other External Activities VI. Definitions VII. Enforcement VIII. Administration IX. Relationship to Other Policies I. Applicability This Policy applies to all faculty members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“Faculty Members”). II. General Policy All Faculty Members must avoid Conflicts of Commitment. A “Conflict of Commitment”, as discussed in greater detail in Section V, occurs when a Faculty Member’s commitment to external activities such as consulting, lecturing, acting as an expert witness, public service, service on a professional board or committee, or pro bono work compromises or may compromise his or her ability to meet his or her obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. Full time Faculty Members owe their primary professional allegiance to NYU and NYU Langone Health, and their primary commitment of time and intellectual energies should be to NYU Langone Health’s teaching, research and clinical programs. An external activity which does not comply with this Policy results in a Conflict of Commitment. III. Disclosure A. General. As required under NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs, a Faculty Member shall disclose in their annual disclosure submission all external activities 2 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment involving his or her professional competence and shall certify compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. Such disclosure shall include all consulting and other external activities, including the entity(ies) for which such activities are to be performed and the nature, scope, duration and compensation for such activities, as well as any concurrent faculty appointment at any U.S. or foreign university, institution of higher education, academic teaching hospital, medical center, or research institute (including visiting, guest, or adjunct faculty appointments) other than at NYU. Disclosure submissions are required upon appointment, upon request of the Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) of the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Rise Management (IACERM) and annually thereafter. A Faculty Member must also disclose specific situations giving rise to a potential conflict between their personal interests and their NYU Langone Health responsibilities. NYU Langone Health’s procedures for the review and evaluation of such disclosures are set forth in the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs. B. Research and Sponsored Programs. In the event a Faculty Member participates in research or sponsored programs, the Faculty Member shall submit an investigator financial interest disclosure form as provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. NYU Langone Health’s procedures for the review and evaluation of such disclosures are set forth therein. C. Confidentiality. All disclosures will be kept confidential and disclosed only on a need to know basis as required to perform the reviews and evaluations required by this Policy and the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. IV. Review and Evaluation A. The CIMU will review all annual disclosures submitted from Faculty Members via the online reporting system in which a financial interest has been disclosed. B. In cases where the CIMU believes that a potential Conflict of Commitment exists, the CIMU will submit the matter to the Faculty Member’s Department Chair and to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Academic Officer. A Conflict of Commitment may exist whenever a Faculty Member (i) discloses an outside position such as a director, trustee, partner, senior executive, officer or employee or (ii) discloses receipt in the last year, or expectation of receipt in the next year, of compensation from consulting or other external activities (i.e., consulting fees, honoraria, lecture fees, other emoluments, stock, stock options, royalties or “in kind” compensation directly or indirectly) (a) in excess of $50,000 from any individual entity or (b) in excess of an aggregate of $100,000 from all outside entities. Prior to such submission, the CIMU will request the Faculty Member to certify that the external activity(ies) or interest(s) is consistent with this Policy, including specifically that the activities do not exceed an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) as contemplated below. C. The Chief Academic Officer, in conference with the Faculty Member’s Department Chair, is responsible for reviewing and evaluating each potential Conflict of Commitment involving a Faculty Member submitted by the CIMU. The Chief Academic Officer may refer Conflict of Commitment matters to the Business Conflict of Interest Committee (BCOIC) or to individual members of the BCOIC for an advisory opinion. D. Except where this Policy explicitly provides for review by the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee, decisions of the Chief Academic Officer are final. 3 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment V. Policy A. Definition. A Conflict of Commitment occurs when a Faculty Member’s external activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the Faculty Member’s obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. Full time Faculty Members owe their primary professional allegiance to NYU and NYU Langone Health, and their primary commitment of time and intellectual energies should be to NYU’s and NYU Langone Health’s teaching, research, and clinical programs. The specific responsibilities and professional activities that constitute an appropriate primary commitment to NYU and NYU Langone Health will differ across NYU Langone Health’s departments and units, but they should be based on a general understanding between the Faculty Member and his or her Department Chair and/or the Chief Academic Officer. Even with such understandings in place, however, attempts of Faculty Members to balance NYU Langone Health responsibilities with outside activities can result in conflicts regarding allocation of time and energies. Normally, it is expected that there will be no Conflict of Commitment between faculty commitment to NYU and NYU Langone Health and other activities in which Faculty Members may engage. Furthermore, to the extent any questions of possible Conflict of Commitment arise, it is anticipated that the Faculty Member will quickly resolve the issues. Outside activities that do not constitute a Conflict of Commitment are permissible only if they also do not result in an impermissible conflict of interest under NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs, Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Projects, and other NYU and NYU Langone Health conflict policies. B. Policy and Discussion. 1. Faculty Members must maintain a significant physical presence on NYU Langone Health’s campus throughout each period while they are compensated by NYU Langone Health. A full time appointment to be a Faculty Member at NYU Langone Health conveys an obligation for a Faculty Member to have a significant physical presence (30 35 hours per week, excepting holidays, vacation, academic and professional conferences, and approved leave) at NYU Langone Health on his or her assigned campus, to be accessible to students, fellows, trainees, postdoctoral appointees, and staff, and to be available to interact with NYU and NYU Langone Health colleagues throughout every period while he or she is receiving compensation from NYU Langone Health (i.e., holds a compensated appointment and is not on leave). A Faculty Member will not be deemed physically present through use of telecommuting tools like Skype or FaceTime. Fulfillment of these obligations requires a primary commitment of expertise, time, and energy. Exceptions for extended or frequent absences from campus are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made only with the prior written approval of a Faculty Member’s Department Chair and/or the Chief Academic Officer. Exceptions will not be granted if the extended or frequent absence: 1. Requires NYU Langone Health to violate any law, regulation, or contractual obligation applicable to NYU Langone Health (including obligations with respect to employment law, benefits, taxes, and any research or other activities involving the Faculty Member); 4 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment 2. Creates, or is intended to enable an outside activity or interest that constitutes a Conflict of Interest or a Conflict of Commitment under NYU Langone’s Policies on Conflict of Interest, Commitment and Faculty Consultant for reasons other than a failure to maintain a significant physical presence on his or her assigned campus at NYU Langone Health; or, 3. Otherwise imposes an undue burden on NYU Langone Health or any of its departments or institutes. Any permitted extended or frequent absence will be documented reflecting the period of the absence (including beginning and end dates) and any conditions for the absence necessary to ensure that the Faculty Member will perform his or her NYU Langone Health duties during the absence. Any permitted extended or frequent absence plan will be signed by the Department Chair and the Faculty Member, with copies provided to the Chief Academic Officer, and the Conflict of Interest Management Unit. Among other things, the plan will provide that the Faculty Member will perform his or her NYU Langone Health duties at the same level of productivity and subject to all of the same policies during the absence as if he or she were working on site. In addition, during a permitted absence involving telecommuting activities, the plan will provide that the Faculty Member is subject to all applicable policies and procedures related to telecommuting set forth in Human Resources Policies and Procedures applicable to non faculty NYU Langone Health employees. Similarly, a part time paid appointment to be a Faculty Member at NYU Langone Health conveys an obligation to maintain a significant physical presence at NYU Langone Health on his or her assigned campus for those times at the Faculty Member is compensated by NYU Langone Health. Requests for field research and other reasons for absence from NYU Langone Health need to be approved by his or her Department Chair and be in accordance with policies and guidelines promulgated from time to time by the Chief Academic Officer and NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. 2. Faculty Members must not allow other professional or academic activities to detract from their primary allegiance to NYU and NYU Langone Health and should be guided and governed in their consideration of an offer of ancillary employment or other professional or academic activities by their primary obligation of furthering NYU Langone Health’s essential missions. In particular, other professional or academic activities which involve teaching at another institution require special disclosure and review. Outside Activities Generally. Outside professional or academic activities may detract from a Faculty Member’s obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. For that reason, any outside activities must be consistent with the principles outlined in this Policy, in all of NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, and in all other applicable NYU and NYU Langone Health policies. In particular, when judging the appropriateness of such activities outside of NYU and NYU Langone Health, Faculty Members must consider the time commitment involved and the potential impact of these activities, together with all other outside professional and academic activities, on the fulfillment of NYU’s and NYU Langone Health’s institutional goals. In addition, Faculty Members receiving full time compensation must not have executive or managerial responsibilities in a private or public entities outside of NYU and NYU Langone Health. Exceptions are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made only with the prior written approval of the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. 5 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment Part time Faculty Members may accept outside employment as long as it does not create a conflict of interest under NYU Langone Health’s policies or otherwise interferes with any of their obligations to NYU or NYU Langone Health. Outside Research Activities. Full time Faculty Members must not act as a principal investigator at or under the auspices of another institution (other than institutions in which NYU Langone Health has a formal affiliation). Exceptions are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made on with the prior written approval of the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. All permissible outside research also must be in accordance with all NYU and NYU Langone Health policies. Outside Clinical Activities. Full time Faculty Members must not engage in a clinical activity that competes with NYU Langone Health or have a position with any entity that competes with the clinical mission of NYU Langone Health, such as having a position with or providing services to a health care provider which competes with NYU Langone Health or being on the medical staff of another hospital, except with the prior approval of the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. Outside Teaching Activities. Outside teaching by Faculty Members presents issues that require special attention because it competes most directly with NYU’s core educational mission. A Faculty Member may not accept a concurrent faculty appointment at another academic institution, even while on unpaid leave from NYU Langone Health, without prior written approval from the Chief Academic Officer and the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health and his or her designee. All outside teaching activities by Faculty Members require disclosure to and prior approval by NYU Langone Health’s Chief Academic Officer other than: (a) Delivering a limited number of lectures at other academic institutions, at conferences, or at public gatherings (with or without compensation); (b) Teaching courses, at NYU, NYU Langone Health, or elsewhere, by Faculty Members not receiving compensation for the period in question; and (c) Posting of uncompensated, non interactive educational materials on a website. The above exceptions are not absolute. For example, a Faculty Member should not teach courses identical to his or her NYU and NYU Langone Health courses at another institution or in connection with non NYU distance learning ventures, even during a period when he or she is not compensated by NYU Langone Health, without prior disclosure and opportunity for comment by his or her Department Chair and/or the Chief Academic Officer. These rules apply primarily to full time Faculty Members. Part time Faculty Members are expected to disclose their teaching activities outside of NYU and NYU Langone Health prior to their appointment and as requested thereafter and whenever a material change has occurred and to engage in teaching activities outside of NYU and NYU Langone Health only to the extent they do not interfere with any of their teaching obligations to NYU and NYU Langone Health. In addition, the provisions cited above regarding concurrent 6 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment faculty appointments and teaching courses designed for NYU or NYU Langone Health outside of NYU apply to Faculty Members not receiving full time compensation from NYU Langone Health as well. 3. Consistent with NYU Langone Health’s mission and its prevailing academic ethos, Faculty Members must foster an atmosphere of academic freedom by promoting the open and timely exchange of results of scholarly activities, ensuring that their advising of students, fellows, trainees, and postdoctoral appointees is independent of personal commercial interests, and informing students and colleagues about outside obligations that might influence the free exchange of scholarly information between them and the Faculty Member. Faculty Members must ensure that: (a) The results of research or scholarship undertaken at NYU and NYU Langone Health are disseminated on an open and timely basis to the broader scholarly community and public; and (b) The academic activities of students, fellows, trainees, and postdoctoral appointees are free from the outside personal interests of the Faculty Member; and (c) The work of students, fellows, trainees, postdoctoral appointees, and others is not inappropriately used in the course of a Faculty Member's outside obligations. To this end, Faculty Members should be open about their involvements with and obligations to outside third parties who could benefit from the work or ideas of their students, staff, and colleagues. Similarly, students, staff, and colleagues should have access to information about the sources of funds that support their research and their contributions to such research should be properly credited; and (d) They have made a sufficient contribution under pertinent professional academic standards to warrant the authorship credit to be given them; and they must not permit their identification as an author of a publication that they know or should know was written by sources who are not properly identified and credited (i.e., ghostwritten). See NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Authorship of Scientific and Scholarly Publications. For further information see the NYU Guidelines for Sponsored Research in the NYU Faculty Handbook. 4. Appropriate use of NYU and NYU Langone Health resources. NYU Langone Health facilities, personnel, and other resources are provided to further NYU Langone Health’s educational, administrative, research, clinical, and other goals. These resources may not be used for personal use, including outside consulting or other commercial activities, except in a purely incidental manner. Personal use may not adversely affect work performance nor add more than a negligible amount to the cost of these resources for NYU Langone Health. All such incidental or other personal use must be in accordance with the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting and all other applicable NYU and NYU Langone Health policies. The personal use of NYU and NYU Langone Health funding or intellectual property is never permitted and is never considered purely incidental. Obtaining, using, or disclosing NYU Langone Health confidential information for direct or indirect personal interest, profit or advantage or, for a purpose that may be detrimental to NYU or for a purpose that is not authorized by NYU, is never permitted. NYU Langone Health does not ensure the security or privacy of any Faculty Member work arising from personal use of NYU Langone Health resources. If a Faculty Member has a question about whether an activity is permitted under this Policy, the Faculty Member should contact the CIMU or his or her Department Chair. 7 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment For purposes of this policy, NYU Langone Health confidential information includes, but is not limited to: medical, personnel, security, academic, background check, conflict of interest, identifiable biometric records and other non public information about individuals; business records; contracts and business terms; business and donor relationships; computer system passwords and security codes; proprietary and competitively sensitive information, including non public information about anticipated material requirements, price actions, programs, and selection of contractors and subcontractors in advance of official announcements; unpublished grant proposals, non public research data, manuscripts and correspondence; non public financial, procurement, health safety, audit, insurance and claims information; and non public information relating to internal investigations, pre litigation and litigation and administrative agency charges, audits and inquiries; and other information whose confidentiality is protected by law or NYU’s or NYU Langone Health’s policies. 5. Inventions created or discovered in the course of a Faculty Member’s NYU and NYU Langone Health activities or with more than incidental use of NYU or NYU Langone Health resources must be disclosed and assigned to NYU on a timely basis. See NYU’s Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property. NYU’s Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property provides that (i) Faculty Member inventors must disclose on a timely basis the creation or discovery of all potentially patentable inventions created or discovered in the course of their NYU and NYU Langone Health activities or with more than incidental use of NYU or NYU Langone Health resources, (ii) ownership of such inventions must be assigned to NYU regardless of the source of funding, and (iii) Faculty Member inventors will share in royalties earned by NYU. 6. Permitted Time to Engage in External Activities Full time Faculty Members are permitted to spend no more than an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) on outside consulting activities during any period in which they are receiving full time compensation from NYU Langone Health. Exceptions are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made on with the prior written approval of the Chief Academic Officer and the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. 7. Outside Consulting and Other External Activities All full time Faculty Members who engage in Consulting and other external activities (including lecturing, acting as an expert witness, public service, service on a professional board or committee) must conduct the activities in accordance with NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Faculty Consulting. VI. Definitions A. A “Conflict of Commitment”, as discussed in greater detail in Section V, occurs when a Faculty Member’s external activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the Faculty Member’s obligations to NYU. B. “Consulting” refers to any remunerated consulting or other business activities or external professional or academic endeavors, such as public service or pro bono work, performed outside of the Faculty Member’s appointment to NYU Langone Health and involving a Faculty Member’s professional competence. C. “Faculty Member” means faculty members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Long Island School of Medicine, including adjunct, clinical, voluntary and visiting faculty. 8 Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment D. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. VII. Enforcement Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the Faculty Member. VIII. Questions Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the CIMU. IX. Relationship to Other Policies A. This Policy replaces the Policy on Conflicts of Commitment issued on April 1, 2009, as previously updated August 24, 2012 and July 18, 2018. B. This Policy is intended to implement for NYU Langone Health the applicable provisions of the NYU Policy on Academic Conflicts of Interest and Conflicts of Commitment dated August 24, 2012, as it may be updated from time to time, and to supplement, but not replace, other policies and guidelines applicable to the Faculty Member, including the conflict policies set forth in the NYU Faculty Handbook and elsewhere in the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting.


1 Policy on Faculty Consulting Policy on Faculty Consulting Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: December 31, 2019 Contents: I. Applicability II. General Policy III. Disclosure IV. Review and Evaluation V. Conflicts of Interest and Commitment VI. Use of NYU and NYU Langone Health Resources VII. Inventions and Faculty Consulting Agreements VIII. Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs IX. No Liability Protection Afforded by NYU or NYU Langone Health X. Definitions XI. Enforcement XII. Administration XIII. Relationship to Other Policies XIV. Attachments I. Applicability This Policy applies to all faculty members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“Faculty Members”). II. General Policy A Faculty Member may use his or her professional competence to engage in consulting and other external activities (including lecturing, acting as an expert witness, public service, service on a professional board or committee) as long as such activities avoid Conflicts of Commitment and Conflicts of Interest. A “Conflict of Commitment” occurs when external activities undermine the Faculty Member’s primary professional commitment of time and intellectual energies to NYU Langone Health’s teaching, research and clinical programs. A “Conflict of Interest” exists when external activities influence or appear to influence a Faculty Member’s ability to promote objectively the best interests of NYU Langone Health. A Consulting or other external activity which does not comply with this Policy results in a Conflict of Commitment or Conflict of Interest. III. Disclosure A. General. As required under NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs, a Faculty Member shall disclose in their annual disclosure submission all outside activities involving his or her professional competence and shall certify compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. Such disclosure shall include all Consulting and other external activities, including the entity(ies) for which such activities are to be performed and the nature, scope, duration and compensation for such activities. Disclosure submissions are required upon appointment, upon request of the Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) of the Office of 2 Policy on Faculty Consulting Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (IACERM) and annually thereafter. A Faculty Member must also disclose specific situation giving rise to a potential Conflict of Interest between their personal interests and their NYU Langone Health responsibilities. NYU Langone Health’s procedures for the review and evaluation of such disclosures and potential Conflicts of Interest arising therefrom are set forth in the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs. B. Research and Sponsored Programs. In the event a Faculty Member participates in research or sponsored programs, the Faculty Member shall submit an investigator financial interest disclosure form as provided in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. NYU Langone Health’s procedures for the review and evaluation of such disclosures are set forth therein. C. Confidentiality. All disclosures will be kept confidential and disclosed only on a need to know basis as required to perform the reviews and evaluations required by this Policy and the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. IV. Review and Evaluation A. Under the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs and Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment, the CIMU is responsible for collecting each disclosure received from Faculty Members. B. In cases where the CIMU believes that a potential Conflict of Interest exists, the CIMU will submit the matter to the Business Conflict of Interest Committee. C. In cases where the CIMU believes that a potential Conflict of Commitment exists, the CIMU will submit the matter to the Faculty Member’s Department Chair and to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Academic Officer. A Conflict of Commitment may exist whenever a Faculty Member discloses receipt in the last year, or has expectations to receive in the next year, compensation from Consulting or other external activities (i.e., consulting fees, honoraria, lecture fees, other emoluments, stock, stock options, royalties or “in kind” compensation directly or indirectly) either (i) in excess of $50,000 from any individual entity or (ii) in excess of an aggregate of $100,000 from all outside entities. Prior to such submission, the CIMU will request the Faculty Member to certify that the external activity(ies) is consistent with this Policy and NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Commitment, including specifically that the activities do not exceed an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) as contemplated below. D. The Chief Academic Officer, in conference with the Faculty Member’s Department Chair, is responsible for reviewing and evaluating each potential Conflict of Commitment involving a Faculty Member submitted by the CIMU. The Chief Academic Officer may refer matters under this Policy to the Business Conflict of Interest Committee (BCOIC) or to individual members of the BCOIC for an advisory opinion. E. Except where the Policy explicitly provides for review by the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee, decisions of the Chief Academic Officer are final. V. Conflicts of Interest and Commitment A Faculty Member’s participation in outside Consulting must be consistent with the Faculty Member’s obligations under the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs and the Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment. Accordingly, all full time Faculty Members who engage in Consulting or other external activities are subject to the following: A. Faculty Members have a primary obligation to serve the purposes to which NYU Langone Health is dedicated. As part of this obligation, each Faculty Member has a duty to organize his or her personal 3 Policy on Faculty Consulting interests or activities to avoid the appearance that such personal interests or activities are influencing his or her ability to promote objectively the best interests of NYU Langone Health. B. Full time Faculty Members are permitted to spend no more than an average of one day per seven day week (or the equivalent of an eight hour work day) on outside Consulting activities during any period in which they are receiving full time compensation from NYU Langone Health. Exceptions are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made on with the prior written approval of the Chief Academic Officer and the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. C. Full time Faculty Members are ordinarily not permitted to hold an executive or managerial position in public or private entities outside of NYU and NYU Langone Health. Exceptions are rare (and usually time limited where granted) and may be made on with the prior written approval of the Chief Academic Officer and the Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Health or his or her designee. VI. Use of NYU and NYU Langone Health Resources Faculty Members may not use any NYU or NYU Langone Health resources, including facilities, personnel, equipment, or other resources, except in a purely incidental way, as part of or in connection with their outside Consulting activities. Personal use may not adversely affect work performance nor add more than a negligible amount to the cost of these resources for NYU Langone Health. All such incidental or other personal use must be in accordance with the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting and all other applicable NYU and NYU Langone Health policies. In particular, Faculty Members may not use NYU and NYU Langone Health students, fellows, trainees, postdoctoral appointees, and staff in any tasks that relate to the Faculty Member’s Consulting activities or for potential or real financial gain, without full disclosure and approval. Inappropriate uses of NYU and NYU Langone Health resources by Faculty Members also include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Any use of NYU or NYU Langone Health funding as part of or in connection with their Consulting activities (use of funding is never permitted and never considered purely incidental); (b) Any use of NYU or NYU Langone Health confidential information (including all information acquired while conducting NYU or NYU Langone Health business or research activities; see more complete definition below) as part of or in connection with their Consulting activities (use of confidential information is never permitted and never considered purely incidental); (c) Any use of the NYU or NYU Langone Health name, or any NYU or NYU Langone Health mark, symbol or logo as part of or in connection with their Consulting activities; (d) Granting an outside entity access to other NYU or NYU Langone Health resources including research results, materials or products generated from NYU or NYU Langone Health teaching, research or clinical activities; and (e) Offering inappropriate inducements to outside entities in an attempt to unduly influence them in their dealings with NYU or NYU Langone Health. For purposes of this policy, NYU Langone Health confidential information includes, but is not limited to: medical, personnel, security, academic, background check, conflict of interest, identifiable biometric records and other non public information about individuals; business records; contracts and business terms; business and donor relationships; computer system passwords and security codes; proprietary and competitively sensitive information, including non public information about anticipated material requirements, price 4 Policy on Faculty Consulting actions, programs, and selection of contractors and subcontractors in advance of official announcements; unpublished grant proposals, non public research data, manuscripts and correspondence; non public financial, procurement, health safety, audit, insurance and claims information; and non public information relating to internal investigations, pre litigation and litigation and administrative agency charges, audits and inquiries; and other information whose confidentiality is protected by law or NYU’s or NYU Langone Health’s policies. VII. Inventions and Faculty Consulting Agreement A. The NYU Policy on Intellectual Property provides that (i) Faculty Member inventors must disclose on a timely basis the creation or discovery of all potentially patentable inventions created or discovered in the course of their NYU and NYU Langone Health activities or with more than incidental use of NYU or NYU Langone Health resources, (ii) ownership of such inventions must be assigned to NYU regardless of the source of funding, and (iii) Faculty Member inventors will share in royalties earned by NYU. B. Prior to beginning any outside Consulting activity, a Faculty Member must inform the party for whom the Consulting activities are to be performed of the NYU Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property, this Policy and the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, and the Faculty Member’s obligations under such policies. C. Faculty Members are responsible for ensuring that Consulting agreements are compliant with all applicable obligations set forth in this Policy. It is strongly encouraged that consulting agreements between the Faculty Member and the party for whom consulting activities are to be performed recognize NYU’s rights priority under such policies to the extent they apply. To ensure such rights are protected, Faculty Members are strongly encouraged to use the NYU Langone Health Faculty Consulting Agreement Addendum set forth in Attachment I to this Policy. In the event a Faculty Member has questions regarding the intellectual property provisions of a consulting agreement, the Faculty Member should address the question to the Office of Industrial Liaison or the CIMU. VIII. Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs Faculty Members may not either (a) receive funds for NYU Langone Health research from a party for whom the consulting activities are being performed or (b) engage in Consulting or other external activities for a party from whom funds are to be received for the Faculty Member’s research, without prior disclosure, review and approval as required by NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. IX. No Liability Protection Afforded by NYU or NYU Langone Health Faculty Members must understand that risk and liability for injuries arising out of the Faculty Member’s outside consulting is personal to the Faculty Member and does not accrue to NYU or NYU Langone Health. NYU and NYU Langone Health have no responsibility or liability for Consulting or other external interests of Faculty Members. NYU insurance coverages do not protect Faculty Members engaged in Consulting or other external activities. When entering into arrangements to engage in activities outside the scope of his or her employment, Faculty Members are encouraged to consider all risks and use personal legal counsel to ensure their own protection and compliance with applicable laws. X. Definitions A. A “Conflict of Commitment”, as discussed in greater detail in NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment occurs when a Faculty Member’s Outside Activities compromise or may compromise his or her ability to meet the Faculty Member’s obligations to NYU. 5 Policy on Faculty Consulting B. “Consulting” refers to any remunerated external consulting activity performed by a Faculty Member in the Faculty Member’s area of professional competence outside of the Faculty Member’s appointment to NYU and NYU Langone Health. C. “Faculty Member” means faculty members of NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Long Island School of Medicine, including adjunct, clinical, voluntary and visiting faculty. D. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. XI. Enforcement Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the Faculty Member. XII. Questions Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the CIMU. XIII. Relationship to Other Policies A. This Policy replaces Policy on Faculty Consulting issued on April 1, 2009, as previously updated August 24, 2012 and July 16, 2018. B. This Policy is intended to supplement, but not replace, other policies and guidelines applicable to the Faculty Member, including the conflict policies set forth in the NYU Faculty Handbook and elsewhere in the Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting. XIV. Attachments Attachment 1 NYU Langone Health Faculty Consulting Addendum 6 Policy on Faculty Consulting ATTACHMENT I NYU LANGONE HEALTH FACULTY CONSULTING ADDENDUM 1. The Company acknowledges that the Consultant’s primary employment responsibility is to New York University and NYU Langone Health (together, “NYU”) and that, notwithstanding anything in the consulting agreement to which this Addendum is appended and into which it is incorporated and understood by the parties to be an integral part (“the Agreement”), the Consultant is bound by all policies of NYU, including policies related to the performance of outside consulting activities and related to the ownership of inventions and research data made, created or discovered by the Consultant, and by NYU’s commitments to the policies of governmental agencies or other sponsors of the Consultant’s research at NYU. In the event of any inconsistencies between the Consultant’s obligations to the Company and to NYU, the Company agrees that the Consultant’s obligations to NYU shall prevail. 2. The Company further acknowledges that the Consultant has assigned and shall assign to NYU all inventions, discoveries and other intellectual property rights subject to NYU ownership under NYU policies, including all intellectual property made in the course of the Consultant’s duties and activities at NYU or made with greater than incidental use of NYU resources. The Company shall have no rights under this Agreement to any publication, invention, discovery, improvement, or other intellectual property whatsoever owned by NYU or developed as a result of research financed, in whole or in part, by funds provided by or under the control of NYU. 3. The Consultant and the Company may not use in this engagement the facilities, equipment, materials, funds, or resources owned or administered by NYU or located on any premises of NYU, or engage or employ students, trainees, post doctoral fellows or other employees of NYU to provide services under the Agreement. The Consultant also must not disclose or use any inventions owned by NYU or any unpublished data or results of research or clinical activity of NYU in the services to the Company. 4. From time to time, the Consultant may be unavailable to perform consulting duties. Should such unavailability be attributable to prior obligations to NYU, including but not limited to, teaching and other academic duties and attending scientific conferences, such unavailability shall not be considered a breach of this Agreement. 5. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to prohibit the Consultant from engaging in clinical, research or teaching activities at NYU or from accepting research or education funding from third parties, nor limit the Consultant’s ability to publish work generated at or on the behalf of NYU, nor infringe on the Consultant’s academic freedom. 6. In the event that the services including speaking at an event sponsored by the Company, the Company acknowledges that the Consultant must comply with requirements and restrictions outlined in the Policy on Speaking Supported by Industry, including, but not limited to, disclosure of the Consultant’s relationship with the Company to the audience prior to the start of the Consultant’s lecture/presentation. 7. The Company agrees that the Consultant serves the Company under this Agreement in his individual capacity, as an independent contractor, and not as an agent or representative of NYU, that NYU exercises no authority or control over the Consultant while acting in such capacity, that NYU receives no benefit from such activity, that NYU is not a party to this Agreement, and that NYU makes no representation or warranties under this Agreement and assumes no liability or obligation in connection with any such work or service by the Consultant. The Company further agrees that any breach, error, or omission by the Consultant acting in such capacity or otherwise under this Agreement shall not be imputed or otherwise attributed to NYU. Except for accurately describing the Consultant’s affiliation with NYU, neither party shall use the NYU name in a manner that would identify NYU with any product or any commercial or other activity that would imply endorsement or support thereby by NYU. 8. The Company agrees, at its sole expense, to defend NYU against, and to indemnify and hold NYU harmless from, any claim, liability, judgment, cost, expense, damage, deficiency, loss, or obligation, of any kind or nature (including without limitation reasonable attorneys’ fees and other costs and expenses of defense) relating to a claim or suit by a third party against NYU, either arising from the Agreement, the Consultant’s performance of services for the Company under the Agreement, or any Company products or services which result from the Consultant’s performance of services under the Agreement. 9. To the extent the terms of this Addendum conflict with any of the terms of the Agreement, the terms of this Addendum will be deemed to supersede.


Page 1 of 4 Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest In Human Subjects Research Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: December 31, 2019 Contents: I. Summary II. Applicability III. General Policy IV. Reporting V. Review and Evaluation VI. Definitions VII. Enforcement VIII. Administration IX. Relationship to Other Policies I. Summary NYU Langone Health is committed to operating in an ethical manner and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Even the appearance of an institutional conflict of interest in human subject research can be damaging to the reputation of NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting provides a comprehensive approach for the identification, disclosure and oversight of all conflicts arising from the external interests and activities of the NYU Langone Health and members of its community, as well as the conduct of NYU Langone Health’s business. This Policy is a part of the Policies and sets forth NYU Langone Health’s policies governing when it will participate in a human subjects research project despite the existence of a financial interest held by New York University (NYU) or NYU Langone Health in the product being tested in the project or in the for profit research sponsor of the project. Under this Policy, NYU Langone Health must identify when an Institutional Financial Interest (as defined below) may affect or appear to affect the design, conduct, reporting, review, or oversight of a human subjects research project. NYU Langone Health, through its Conflict of Interest Management Unit (CIMU), will then review and evaluate such interests, determine if an institutional conflict of interest exists, and determine whether such institutional conflict can be managed or eliminated in order to permit NYU Langone Health to engage in the project. II. Applicability This Policy applies to all Investigators participating in human subjects research conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. All capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section VI below. Page 2 of 4 Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research III. General Policy A. An “Institutional Conflict of Interest” arises in human subjects research when a financial interest of NYU or NYU Langone Health may affect or appear to affect the design, conduct, reporting, review, or oversight of the human subjects research. Institutional Conflicts of Interest are of significant concern when an Institutional Financial Interest (as defined below) creates the potential for inappropriate influence over a human subjects research project, particularly to the integrity of the research and the safety and care of patients enrolled in the research. B. An “Institutional Financial Interest” is held when either (i) NYU or NYU Langone Health receives or might reasonably be expected to receive royalty income from the sale of a product covered by any patent (whether issued or pending), copyright, license or other intellectual property right, held by NYU or NYU Langone Health and proposed to be used in the human subjects research project; and/or (ii) NYU or NYU Langone Health holds or proposes to hold, directly or indirectly, equity interests of any amount (or entitlement to the same), in the research sponsor for the human subjects research project, whether such research sponsor is public or non public, through NYU’s or NYU Langone Health’s technology licensing activities or investments related to such activities. C. All potential Institutional Conflict of Interests require disclosure, evaluation and either management or elimination under this Policy. D. Certain Institutional Conflicts of Interest are too significant to manage and must be eliminated. As a matter of policy, NYU Langone Health will not participate in a human subjects research project that involves a significant Institutional Conflict of Interest, such as (i) a clinical trial, or other human subjects research project of greater than minimal risk, testing, validating or developing a product covered by an NYU or NYU Langone Health intellectual property right or (ii) a clinical trial sponsored by a for profit company in which NYU or NYU Langone Health holds or proposes to hold any equity interests. An exception to this policy may be made only when diligent efforts to eliminate the conflict do not succeed, or when NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee, Chief Scientific Officer and/or CIMU determines that facts and circumstances exist to merit an exception and a conflict management plan is adopted to maintain research integrity and serve the best interests of subjects enrolled in the research. IV. Reporting A. The Office of Industrial Liaison (OIL) will periodically develop a list of Institutional Financial Interests, including (i) all drugs, devices and other possible investigational products covered by any patent (whether issued or pending), copyright, license or other intellectual property right held by NYU or NYU Langone Health which may be the subject of human subjects research at NYU Langone Health, and the entities that have licensed the intellectual property rights covering such drugs, devices and other investigational products, and (ii) the entities in which NYU or NYU Langone Health has acquired any equity interests (or entitlements to the same) of any amount through NYU’s or NYU Langone Health’s technology licensing activities. B. OIL will periodically provide such lists to the CIMU and the following offices in the Office of Science & Research: the Clinical Research Support Unit (CRSU), Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA), Institutional Review Board Operations (IRB), and Human Research Regulatory Affairs. C. OIL, the CRSU, SPA, and NYU Langone Health’s IRB will review all proposed human subjects research projects against such lists to identify potential Institutional Conflicts of Interest and report identified matters to the CIMU. Page 3 of 4 Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research V. Review and Evaluation A. Conflict of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) Review. The CIMU is responsible for reviewing each disclosure of an Institutional Financial Interest in a human subjects research project and for determining whether an Institutional Conflict of Interest exists under the circumstances. In cases where the CIMU determines that a significant Institutional Conflict of Interest may exist, the CIMU, in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel and the Chief Scientific Officer, will make a determination on whether Compelling Circumstances exist to justify NYU Langone Health’s participation in the project and on whether diligent efforts to eliminate the conflict have not succeeded. In other cases where CIMU determines that an Institutional Conflict of Interest may exist but is not of significant concern, the CIMU will normally determine that NYU Langone Health may participate in the project and issue a management plan as provided in Section V.B below. B. Conflict Management Plan. If NYU Langone Health’s participation in a project is permitted notwithstanding the Institutional Financial Interest, NYU Langone Health’s participation is subject to a conflict management plan which maintains research integrity and serves the best interests of subjects enrolled in the research. Management strategies to be considered are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. The conflict management plan must be agreed to by the principal investigator. Conflict management plans are to be considered as part of the IRB’s review. The human subjects research cannot commence until IRB approval is released following receipt of the conflict management plan. The principal investigator on the human subjects research project must comply with all terms in the conflict management plan of the duration of the research. The CIMU is responsible for monitoring the compliance with the conflict management plan on an ongoing basis until the completion of the project. C. Research Conflict of Interest Committee. Any matter under this Policy may be presented for review and evaluation by NYU Langone Health’s Research Conflict of Interest Committee (RCOIC). The RCOIC’s role is advisory to NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee, the Chief Scientific Officer and the CIMU. D. Appeals to the Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer. Determinations of the CIMU may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. Appeals must be in writing and submitted to the CIMU. The CIMU will provide copies of the appeal to the Chief Scientific Officer. Decisions of the Chief Scientific Officer are final. E. Timing. The review and evaluation of an Institutional Financial Interest as contemplated by this Policy shall be completed prior to the expenditure of any awarded funds for the human subjects research project or any commencement of the project (including enrollment of any research subjects). VI. Definitions A. “Compelling Circumstances” means those facts that convince the Chief Scientific Officer and/or the CIMU that NYU Langone Health may participate in a human subjects research project despite the existence of an Institutional Financial Interest. Factors that may be evaluated by the CIMU in determining whether Compelling Circumstances are present are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. B. “Institutional Conflict of Interest” has the meaning set forth in Section III.A. above. C. “Institutional Financial Interest” has the meaning set forth in Section III.B. above. Page 4 of 4 Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research D. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy also has been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; therefore, for purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. VII. Enforcement Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health’s applicable disciplinary policies and procedures. VII. Administration A. Questions. Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to the Office of Legal Counsel or the CIMU. B. Reporting. The CIMU shall provide reports of its activities under this Policy to NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee and the Chief Scientific Officer on an annual basis. VIII. Relationship to Other Policies A. This Policy replaces the Policy on Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research dated April 1, 2009, as previously updated August 1, 2014, November 1, 2016, and December 1, 2017. B. This Policy is intended to supplement, but not replace, other policies and guidelines applicable to conflicts, including NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting.


Page 1 of 10 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: 5/31/2007 Reissue Date: 4/1/2024 Preventing Fraud, Waste, and Abuse: Federal and State False Claims and False Statements I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone Health recognizes the seriousness of health care fraud, waste, and abuse and the importance of the federal and state authorities’ efforts in identifying such instances. This Policy provides the NYU Langone Health Community with information relating to preventing and detecting any fraud, waste, or abuse, as it relates to federal and state health care programs. II. Policy Purpose The purpose of this Policy is to disseminate information about the following: • The Federal False Claims Act; • Federal administrative remedies for false claims and statements; • New York State laws pertaining to civil or criminal penalties for false statements; and • Whistleblower protections under such laws and regulations relating to preventing and detecting health care fraud, waste, and abuse. III. Applicability of the Policy This Policy applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. IV. Definitions Claim means any request or demand, whether under contract or otherwise, for money or property and whether or not the United States has title to the money or property that is presented to an officer, employee, or agent of the United States, or made to a contractor, grantee, or other recipient, if the money or property is to be spent or used on the government’s behalf or to advance a government program or interest, and if the United States government provided or has provided any portion of the money or property request or demanded, or will reimburse such contractor, grantee, or other recipient for any portion of the money or property which is requested or demanded, and does not include requests or demands for money or property that the government has paid to an individual as compensation for federal employment or as an income subsidy with no restrictions on that individual’s use of the money or property. Knowing and Knowingly means any person, with respect to information has actual knowledge of the information, acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the information; or acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the information. Proof of specific intent to defraud is not required. Material means having a natural tendency to influence, or be capable of influencing, the payment or receipt of money or property. Page 2 of 10 NYU Langone Health includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (the “FHC”); therefore, for the purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the FHC and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded. Obligation means an established duty, whether or not fixed, arising from an express or implied contractual, grantor grantee, or licensor licensee relation relationship, from a fee based or similar relationship, from statute or regulation, or from the retention of any overpayment. V. Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to preventing and detecting any fraud, waste, or abuse, especially as it relates to federal and state health care programs. The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) maintains a Corporate Compliance Program, which details NYU Langone Health’s fundamental principles, values, and operational framework for compliance, a Code of Conduct, and other policies which articulate NYU Langone Health’s commitment to compliance and strives to educate every member of the NYU Langone Health community on health care fraud, waste, and abuse and reporting concerns of such. All members of the NYU Langone Health community are responsible for adhering to the Corporate Compliance Program, Code of Conduct, and other related NYU Langone Health policies, as well as all federal and state regulations. All members of the NYU Langone Health community are required to report any violations or potential violations of these laws or any of NYU Langone Health’s policies. Concerns can be reported via several avenues, as described further in the Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation policy, but includes contacting IACERM directly at 212 404 4079 or compliancehelp@nyulangone.org or to the Compliance Helpline at 866 NYU 1212 or https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com/gcs/welcome (which can be made anonymously). Individuals who in good faith report, including to NYU Langone Health or a government agency, actual or suspected suspicions of fraud, waste, and abuse, are protected from retaliation. VI. Key Regulations The following are key federal and state regulations governing fraud, waste, and abuse. These laws stress the importance of submitting accurate claims and reports to the federal and state governments. A. The Federal False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. §§3729 3733) The False Claims Act has two main liability provisions. The false claims provision creates liability for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment. For example, a physician submits a bill to Medicare for services she knows she did not provide. The false statement provision creates liability for knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim. Page 3 of 10 For example, a physician creates a backdated medical record note to support a claim that was already submitted without documentation at the time. A person or entity may also be liable under the False Claims Act for a reverse false claim, which involves improper conduct to avoid paying the government or improper retention of an overpayment by the government. For example, a hospital discovers a mistake in coding that resulted in additional reimbursement on every claim of a certain type and fixes the problem going forward, but does not refund the overpayment. Other provisions of the False Claims Act impose liability for: • knowingly and improperly withholding part or all of the government’s money or property • intending to defraud the government by making or delivering (with the authority to do so) a document certifying receipt of property used, or to be used, by the government without completely knowing if the information on the receipt is true • knowingly buying, or receiving as a pledge of an obligation or debt, public property from an officer or employee of the government, or a member of the Armed Forces, who is not permitted to sell or pledge the property Additionally, a person or entity may be liable under the False Claims Act for conspiring to commit a violation of the liability provisions. The False Claims Act imposes civil penalties of not less than $5,000 and not more than $10,000, plus three times the amount of damages the government sustains due to the actions of any person liable under the above mentioned provisions. The U.S. Attorney General, as well as private persons, can bring a civil action under the False Claims Act. An action commenced by a private person, known as the relator or qui tam plaintiff, is in the name of the government. The government uses the information provided by the qui tam plaintiff to investigate the claims and can decide to intervene in the case, usually within 60 days of receiving the complaint. A qui tam plaintiff can recover a percentage of any judgment or settlement regardless of whether the government intervenes in the action. The False Claims Act protects a qui tam plaintiff, also known as a “whistleblower” from retaliation by his or her employer. If a qui tam plaintiff employee is discharged, demoted, suspended, threatened, harassed, or discriminated against in the terms and conditions of employment as a result of bringing a civil action under the False Claims Act, that qui tam plaintiff employee can bring an action in federal court seeking reinstatement, two times the amount of back pay plus interest, and other costs, damages, and fees, including litigation costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees. B. The Federal Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. §§3801 3812) The Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act allows for administrative recoveries by federal agencies for false claims. The act provides that any person who makes, presents, or submits, or causes to be made, presented or submitted, a claim that the person knows or has reason to know is false, fictitious, or fraudulent is subject to civil money penalties of up to $5,000 per false claim and up to twice the amount claimed in lieu of damages sustained by the government. Page 4 of 10 Unlike the False Claims Act, a violation of this law occurs when a false claim is submitted, not when it is paid, and the determination of whether a claim is false, and the imposition of fines and penalties is made by the administrative agency, not by prosecution in the federal court system. C. Civil Monetary Penalties (42 U.S. Code §1320a 7a) The Civil Monetary Penalties Law imposes fines and penalties on individuals who knowingly present or cause to be presented a false claim for items or services that the person knows or has reason to know are false or inappropriate. The statute prohibits a wide variety of inappropriate conduct, including but not limited to (1) presenting a claim that you know or should have known was false, (2) presenting a claim for an item or service not rendered or for which payment may not otherwise be made, (3) violating the Anti Kickback Statute, (4) failure to report an overpayment, or (5) providing false or misleading information or (6) if the service was provided by a physician who was not properly licensed at the time, the person who provided the item or service was excluded. The Office of the Inspector General may seek civil monetary penalties and assessments based on the type of violation at issue. Penalties range from $15,000 to $100,000 per violation. D. The Anti Kickback Statute (42 U.S. Code §1320a 7b(b)) The Anti Kickback Statute is a criminal law that prohibits the knowing and willful payment of remuneration to induce or otherwise reward the referral of business involving items or services payable by Federal health care programs. Remuneration is broad and includes items of value beyond cash such as rent, hotel stays and meals, etc. Violations of the Anti Kickback Statute can result in criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including fines and jail time. Civil penalties can also be imposed in an amount up to $50,000 per occurrence plus three times the amount of the remuneration. The statute does outline certain “safe harbors” which protect certain payment or business practices that would otherwise incur liability under the Anti Kickback Statute. E. Physician Self Referral Law (42 U.S. Code §1395nn) The Physician Self Referral Law is also commonly referred to as the Stark Law and prohibits a physician from referring patients to receive certain “designated health services” payable by a federal or state health care program to an entity that the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship with. Similar to the Anti Kickback Statute above, the Physician Self Referral Law includes exceptions designed to protect certain payment or business practices that might otherwise implicate it. This is a strict liability statute and a violation will result in monetary penalties and, in certain cases, can result in exclusion from federal health care programs. F. New York State Civil and Criminal Laws 1) The New York False Claims Act (State Finance Law §§187 194) Page 5 of 10 The New York False Claims Act is similar to the federal False Claims Act. It imposes fines and penalties on individuals and entities that file false or fraudulent claims for payment from any state or local government, including health care programs such as Medicaid. Specifically, the New York False Claims Act provides that any person who knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, to any employee, officer, or agent of the state or a local government a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval, knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the state or a local government, conspires to defraud the state or a local government by getting a false or fraudulent claim allowed or paid, or knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or statement to conceal, avoid, or decrease an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the State or local government is liable to the State of New York for a civil penalty of not less than $6,000 dollars and not more than $12,000, as adjusted to be equal to the civil penalty allowed under the federal False Claims Act, plus three times the amount of all damages, including consequential damages, which the state or local government sustains because of the act of that person. While proof of specific intent to defraud is not required, acts occurring by mistake or due to mere negligence are not covered by the New York False Claims Act. The New York False Claims Act also provides that private parties, also known as qui tam plaintiffs, can bring an action on behalf of the state or a local government, subject to some limitations imposed by the State Attorney General or a local government. If the suit concludes with payments back to the government, the qui tam plaintiff can recover a percentage of the proceeds, amounts of which are dependent upon whether the government did or did not participate in the suit. The New York False Claims Act provides protection to an employee of any private or public employer who is discharged, demoted, suspended, threatened, harassed, or otherwise discriminated against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer because of lawful acts taken by the employee in furtherance of an action under the New York False Claims Act. Remedies include reinstatement, two times the amount of any back pay, interest on any back pay, and compensation for any special damages sustained as a result of the discrimination, including litigation costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees. 2) False Statements (Social Services Law §145 b) Under Social Services Law §145 b, it is unlawful to knowingly make a false statement or representation, or to deliberately conceal any material fact, or engage in any other fraudulent scheme or device, to obtain or attempt to obtain payments under the New York State Medicaid Program. Violations of this law are subject to damages equal to three times the amount by which any figure is falsely overstated or in the case of non monetary false statements or representations, three times the amount of damages which the state, political subdivision of the state, or entity performing services under contract to the state or political subdivision of the state sustain as a result of the violation or $5,000, whichever is greater. Additionally, under Social Services Law §145 b, the New York State Department of Health (“NYS DOH”) can impose a monetary penalty on any person who causes Medicaid Page 6 of 10 payment to be made if the person knew or had reason to know that the payment involved care, services, or supplies that were medically improper, unnecessary, or excessive, the care, services or supplies were not provided as claimed, the person who ordered or prescribed the improper, unnecessary, or excessive care, services or supplies was suspended or excluded from the Medicaid program at the time the care, services, or supplies were furnished, or the services or supplies were not in fact provided. For each claim, the NYS DOH may recover any overpayment, unauthorized payment, or otherwise inappropriate payment and if or more of those claims which were the subject of an audit by the NYS DOH result in overpayments, unauthorized payments or otherwise inappropriate payments and for which the claims were submitted by a person for payment under the medical assistance program, the department may also impose a monetary penalty against any person, or persons, who received the overpayment, unauthorized payment, or otherwise inappropriate payment for such claim. If less than of identified claims result in overpayments, unauthorized payments or otherwise inappropriate payments, then the NYS DOH may recover such monies or may impose a monetary penalty, but not both. In addition, the NYS DOH is also authorized to recover any overpayment, unauthorized payment, or otherwise inappropriate payment and impose a monetary penalty against any person, or persons, other than a recipient of an item or service under the medical assistance program, who caused the overpayment, unauthorized payment, or otherwise inappropriate payment to be received by the other person or persons. The NYS DOH cannot recover overpayments, unauthorized payments, or otherwise inappropriate payments from any person, or persons, for a single claim, in an amount that exceeds the amount paid for such claim. Additionally, the NYS DOH cannot impose a monetary penalty that exceeds $10,000 for each item or service. However, if a penalty has been imposed on the person within the previous five years, the penalty shall not exceed $30,000 for each item or service. 3) Sanctions (Social Services Law §145 c) Under Social Services Law §145 c, if a person applies for or receives public assistance, including Medicaid, by intentionally making a false or misleading statement, or intending to do so, the person’s needs or the person’s family’s needs shall not be taken into account for six months if a first offense, twelve months if a second offense (or if benefits wrongfully received are at least $1,000 but not more than $3,900), eighteen months if a third offense, and five years for four or more offenses. 4) Penalties (Social Services Law §145) Under Social Services Law §145, any person who by means of a false statement or representation, or by deliberate concealment of any material fact, or by impersonation or other fraudulent device, obtains or attempts to obtain, or aids or abets any person to obtain public assistance or care to which he is not entitled, or does any willful act designed to interfere with the proper administration of public assistance and care, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Page 7 of 10 5) Voluntary Self Disclosure (Social Services Law §363 d) Under Social Services Law §363 d, providers within the medical assistance program are to develop and implement a compliance program to resolve payment discrepancies and detect inaccurate billing, as quickly and efficiently as possible, and to impose systemic checks and balances to prevent future recurrences. Eligible participants of the self disclosure program are to report, return and explain in writing to the Office of the Medicaid Inspector General (“OMIG”) Medicaid overpayment and shall pay the overpayment amount determined by the OMIG within fifteen days of the OMIG notification of the amount due or OMIG permitted installment repayments. 6) Penalties for Fraudulent Practices (Social Services Law §366 b) Under Social Services Law §366 b, any person who knowingly makes a false statement or representation, or who by deliberate concealment of any material fact, or by impersonation or other fraudulent device, obtains or attempts to obtain or aids or abets any person to obtain medical assistance to which he is not entitled, shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor. Additionally, any person who, with intent to defraud, presents for payment any false or fraudulent claim for furnishing services or merchandise, or knowingly submits false information for the purpose of obtaining greater compensation than legally entitled for furnishing services or merchandise, or knowingly submits false information for the purpose of obtaining authorization for furnishing services or merchandise, shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor. 7) Larceny (Penal Law Article 155) The crime of larceny applies to a person who, with intent to deprive another of his property, obtains, takes or withholds the property by means of trick, embezzlement, false pretense, false promise, including a scheme to defraud, or other similar behavior. Larceny has been applied to Medicaid fraud cases. Larceny includes four levels of severity, dependent on the amount of property stolen. a. Fourth degree grand larceny involves property valued over $1,000. This is a Class E felony. (§155.30) b. Third degree grand larceny involves property valued over $3,000. This is a Class D felony. (§155.35) c. Second degree grand larceny involves property valued over $50,000. This is a Class C felony. (§155.40) d. First degree grand larceny involves property valued over $1 million. This is a Class B felony. (§155.42) 8) False Written Statements (Penal Law Article 175) Several sections in Penal Law Article 175 relate to filing false information or claims and have been applied in Medicaid fraud prosecutions. a. Falsifying business records involves entering false information, omitting material information or altering an enterprise’s business records with the intended to defraud. This is a Class A misdemeanor. (§175.05) Page 8 of 10 b. Falsifying business records in the first degree includes the elements of the §175.05 offense plus the additional element of the intent to commit another crime or conceal its commission. This is a Class E felony. (§175.10) c. Offering a false instrument for filing in the second degree involves presenting a written instrument (including a claim for payment) to a public office knowing that it contains false information. This is a Class A misdemeanor. (§175.30) d. Offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree includes the elements of the second degree offense plus the additional element of the intent to defraud the state or one of its political subdivision. This is a Class E felony. (§175.35) 9) Insurance Fraud (Penal Law Article 176) Penal Law Article 176 applies to claims for insurance payments, including Medicaid or other health insurance. Insurance fraud contains six crimes that range from a misdemeanor to a felony depending on the amount of the insurance claim. a. Insurance fraud in the fifth degree involves intentionally filing a health insurance claim knowing that it is false. It is a Class A misdemeanor. (§176.10) b. Insurance fraud in the fourth degree is filing a false insurance claim for over $1,000. This is a Class E felony. (§176.15) c. Insurance fraud in the third degree is filing a false insurance claim for over $3,000. This is a Class D felony. (§176.20) d. Insurance fraud in the second degree is filing a false insurance claim for over $50,000. This is a Class C felony. (§176.25) e. Insurance Fraud in the first degree is filing a false insurance claim for over $1 million. This is a Class B felony. (§176.30) f. Aggravated insurance fraud is committing insurance fraud on more than one occasion. This is a Class D felony. (§176.35) 10) Health Care Fraud (Penal Law Article 177) Penal Law Article 177 applies to health care fraud crimes and primarily applies to claims by providers for health insurance payment, including Medicaid payment. a. Health care fraud in the fifth degree is knowingly filing, with intent to defraud, a claim for payment that intentionally has false information or omission. This is a Class A misdemeanor. (§177.05) b. Health care fraud in the fourth degree is filing false claims and annually receiving over $3,000 in aggregate. This is a Class E felony. (§177.10) c. Health care fraud in the third degree is filing false claims and annually receiving over $10,000 in the aggregate. This is a Class D felony. (§177.15) d. Health care fraud in the second degree is filing false claims and annually receiving over $50,000 in the aggregate. This is a Class C felony. (§177.20) e. Health care fraud in the first degree is filing false claims and annually receiving over $1 million in the aggregate. This is a Class B felony. (§177.25) 11) Whistleblower Protections Page 9 of 10 Under New York Labor Law §740, an employer may not take any retaliatory action against an employee if the employee discloses information about the employer’s policies, practices, or activities to a regulatory, law enforcement, or other similar agency or public official. Protected disclosures are those that assert that the employer is in violation of a law that creates a substantial and specific danger to the public health and safety of which constitutes health care fraud under Penal Law §177 (knowingly filing, with intent to defraud, a claim for payment that intentionally has false information or omissions). The employee’s disclosure is protected only if the employee first brought up the matter with a supervisor and gave the employer a reasonable opportunity to correct the alleged violation. If an employer takes any retaliatory action against the employee, the employee may institute a civil action in state court for reinstatement to the same, or an equivalent position, any lost back wages and benefits and attorneys’ fees. If the employer is a health provider and the court finds that the employer’s retaliatory action was in bad faith, it may impose a civil penalty of $10,000 on the employer. Under New York Labor Law §741, a health care employer may not take any retaliatory action against an employee if the employee discloses certain information about the employer’s policies, practices or activities to a regulatory, law enforcement or other similar agency or public official. Protected disclosures are those that assert that, in good faith, the employee believes constitute improper quality of patient care. The employee’s disclosure is protected only if the employee first brought up the matter with a supervisor and gave the employer a reasonable opportunity to correct the alleged violation, unless the danger is imminent to the public or patient and the employee believes in good faith that reporting to a supervisor would not result in corrective action. If an employer takes a retaliatory action against the employee, the employee may institute a civil action in state court for reinstatement to the same, or an equivalent position, any lost back wages and benefits and attorneys’ fees. If the employer is a health provider and the court finds that the employer’s retaliatory action was in bad faith, it may impose a civil penalty of $10,000 on the employer. VII. Policy Enforcement The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management has general responsibility for implementation and enforcement of this Policy. Individuals who are found to be non compliant with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and institutional policies may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health. Such institutional policies include, but are limited to, the Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Program, and the policies set forth in the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program Contract, GME House Staff manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, By laws of the Medical Staff, and Patient Care and Safety Standards This Policy shall remain in effect unless terminated or superseded by a revised and/or updated policy issued by IACERM. VIII. Related Policies and Documents By laws of the Medical Staff Code of Conduct Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Corporate Compliance Program Faculty Handbook GME House Staff Manual Page 10 of 10 Notice to Employees Concerning Rights and Remedies Under the Pilot Program for Enhancement of Employee Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. 4712) Postdoctoral Handbook Residency Training Program Contract Staff Handbook Student Handbook IX. Legal Authority/References Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 §6032 The Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. §1396a(a)(68) The False Claims Act (FCA), 31 U.S.C. §§3729 3733 Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. §§3801 3812 NY State Finance Law §§187 194 (2012) NY Social Services Law §145 NY Social Services Law §363 d NY Social Services Law §366 b NY Penal Law Article 155 NY Penal Law Article 175 177 NY Labor Law §740 741 XIII. Version History May 31, 2007 Original Policy October 20, 2010 Reviewed and Revised October 8, 2018 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2019 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2022 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Pre‐Authorization Enrollment Process Avoid the Complications of Delayed Authorizations, Enroll now! 1. Please complete the below required information to start the enrollment process. 2. Physician Liaisons will work closely with your staff to target an effective date for participation. 3. Upon enrollment completion, you will be contacted by a member of the Department Of Radiology Pre‐Authorization Team to support your office during the stages of the process. To get started email the completed form to NYUradiologygetauth@nyumc.org Referring Physician Enrollment Information Epic Ser # if applicable Last Name First Name Suffix Specialty Street Address City, State , zip Phone # Fax # Email Tax ID # NPI # NPI # Office Contact Clinicals To Be Sent Via: Additional Comments: All fields except TAX ID and NPI # should be required fields when completing the form **


Page 1 of 8 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: 12/23/2005 Reissue Date: 4/1/2024 Prohibition Against Employing or Contracting with Ineligible Persons and Exclusion Screening I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to complying with applicable federal and state laws and regulations governing the exclusion, sanction, restriction, debarment, and/or ineligibility of individuals and entities from participating in Federal Health Care Programs and from receiving government contracts or awards (i.e., Ineligible Persons). This Policy sets forth NYU Langone Health’s responsibilities and standard processes with respect to screening for individuals and entities to ensure that NYU Langone Health and its affiliates do not employ, contract, or do business with such Ineligible Persons. II. Policy Purpose The purposes of this Policy are: • To provide that NYU Langone Health does not employ, contract, or do business with Ineligible Persons; • To establish the processes for identifying Ineligible Persons, for ensuring that NYU Langone Health does not employ, contract, or do business with any Ineligible Persons, and for complying with any reporting and reimbursement obligations as required by applicable laws and regulations; and • To provide that any Ineligible Persons are subject to termination of employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, or association with NYU Langone Health. III. Applicability of the Policy This Policy applies to all employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. In addition, this Policy applies to external providers who place orders for patients, which are completed at NYU Langone Health (also known as Ordering Providers). IV. Definitions Federal Health Care Program means any plan or program that provides health benefits, whether directly, through insurance, or otherwise, and that is funded directly, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government or a State health care program (except for the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program). Federal Health Care Programs include, but are not limited to, Medicare, Medicaid, and Tricare. Ineligible Person refers to an individual or entity who is excluded, suspended, debarred or otherwise deemed ineligible to participate in Federal Health Care Programs or to receive government contracts or awards, such as those by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Page 2 of 8 Exclusion means a temporary or permanent sanction, restriction, and/or debarment from a Federal Health Care Program or government contract, grant, or award program. Exclusion List(s) refers to the federal and state sanction list(s) that identify excluded, sanctioned, restricted, or debarred individuals or entities (i.e., Ineligible Person). In addition to the Exclusions Lists referenced below, NYU Langone Health screens against other international, federal, and state level exclusion and disciplinary lists as deemed appropriate. Examples of Exclusion Lists include, but are not limited to: • HHS Office of Inspector General’s (“OIG”) List of Excluded Individuals and Entities • General Services Administration (GSA) System for Award Management (“SAM”) • New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General’s (“NYS OMIG”) List of Restricted, Terminated or Excluded Individuals and Entities NYU Langone Health includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (the “FHC”); therefore, for the purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the FHC and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded. Ordering Providers refers to all external providers who have the ability to place orders for patients, which are completed at NYU Langone Health. Ordering Providers are not members of the NYU Langone Health community for purposes of this Policy. Vendors means vendors, contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, or agents of NYU Langone Health, and other external parties with which NYU Langone Health does business. Vendors are not members of the NYU Langone Health community for purposes of this Policy. V. Policy A. General Policy. In compliance with federal and state law, NYU Langone Health will not knowingly employ, contract, or do business with Ineligible Persons, and will terminate any existing employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, association, or business with any Ineligible Persons. B. Exclusion Screening. NYU Langone Health performs Exclusion screenings on prospective and current members of the NYU Langone Health community, Vendors, and Ordering Providers, in order to ensure: 1) the identification of any Ineligible Person, 2) the prevention or termination of employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, association, or business with NYU Langone Health as appropriate for any Ineligible Person, and 3) the fulfillment of any reporting and reimbursement obligations. C. Reporting Obligations Existing Business Arrangements. In the event that any person subject to this Policy becomes aware that they or any other such party is an Ineligible Person and/or subject to a temporary or permanent sanction, restriction, and/or debarment from a Page 3 of 8 Federal Health Care Program or government contract, grant, or award program, such person must disclose such fact to NYU Langone Health and its Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) immediately. D. Terminating Existing Arrangements and Repayment. In the event any such Ineligible Person is identified in an Exclusion screening contemplated by Section V.B. or disclosed as contemplated by Section V.C., IACERM will work with the applicable department(s) to review such identification and disclosure and, if such status is confirmed (see Section VIII below), to terminate NYU Langone Health’s association with such Ineligible Persons as provided above. In the event an employed provider is determined to be on an Exclusion (non disciplinary) list, IACERM will report such exclusion and actions taken to appropriate individuals, including any managed care payors as required per the contract terms. In addition, IACERM will fulfill all reporting and reimbursement obligations to Federal Health Care Programs as required by applicable laws and regulations, as items or services furnished by an Ineligible Person are not eligible for reimbursement from a Federal Health Care Program. E. Reporting Obligations New Business Arrangements. All prospective members of the NYU Langone Health community and Vendors are required to report to NYU Langone Health and the applicable department and/or IACERM if he/she/it is an Ineligible Person prior to association with NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health will not employ, appoint, associate, or do business with a party who is an Ineligible Person at such time. F. Contracting Vendors. In addition to the Exclusion screening processes and reporting requirements, NYU Langone Health’s standard contracting terms with Vendors include clauses requiring the Vendor to represent that it, its parent(s) or affiliate(s), and the employees working on matters contemplated by the agreement, are not an Ineligible Person. NYU Langone Health will terminate agreements with Vendors who breach this representation. VI. Procedures for Pre Association Exclusion Screening Several NYU Langone Health departments are responsible for Exclusion screening prior to onboarding, granting of medical staff privileges, appointment, or other association, including contracting, with the individual or entity. The responsible department is dependent on the type of individual being screened. The pre association screenings contemplated in this Section VI apply to all individuals or entities seeking employment, contracting, or doing business with NYU Langone Health, regardless of whether they had a previous employment or association with NYU Langone Health. With respect to Vendors who may have ‘doing business as’ (i.e., d/b/a) name that is different from the contracting name, both names should be screened prior to onboarding if known. The departments listed herein, in consultation with IACERM, may modify from time to time the screenings they conduct as needed to ensure compliance with this Policy and any Federal Healthcare Programs and/or government contract or award requirements. As of the date of this Policy, the following details the departments’ responsibility. A. The Office of Human Resources and Organizational Development and Learning (“HR”) HR is responsible for Exclusion screenings for all prospective employees, medical staff, residents, fellows, trainees, and non traditional volunteers of NYU Langone Health. HR Page 4 of 8 uses a third party vendor to perform Exclusion screenings prior to the start date, granting of medical staff privileges, and/or appointment. HR’s screening includes social security number traces, county and state criminal and sex offender registry database searches, and comprehensive checks against the Fraud and Abuse Control Information System (“FACIS”). As part of the FACIS (Level 3) screenings, searches are performed against the Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”), NYS OMIG, OIG, SAM, Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and State Attorney Generals’ databases, Medicaid task force content, state level or procurement debarment data, and additional sources from all 50 states. B. Medical Staff Services (“MSS”) Office MSS is responsible for conducting screenings for prospective NYU Langone Health compensated physicians, certain allied health professionals (Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners, and Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists), and non compensated medical staff who will have patient care responsibilities prior to appointment and re appointment to the medical staff. MSS’s screening include checks against the New York State Professional databases to verify licensure, the Office of Professional Misconduct, Medicare and Medicaid Opt Out Lists, the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System National Provider Identifier Registry (“NPI”), the Drug Enforcement Administration’s (“DEA”) Diversion Control databases, and the Social Security Death Master File (“SSDMF”). MSS screens these lists directly and utilizes IACERM’s third party vendor for the SSDMF check. MSS’s screening is in addition to any applicable HR screening contemplated above. C. Office of Graduate Medical Education (“GME”) GME is responsible for conducting a limited Exclusion screening for non NYU Langone Health, non compensated residents (“in rotator house staff”). GME screens the OIG list and the NPI registry directly for all in rotator house staff. D. Office of Admissions The respective Office of Admissions is responsible for performing a limited Exclusion screening for all students accepted into the NYU Grossman School of Medicine or the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine prior to matriculation to their program. The Office of Admissions screens against the OIG and SAM databases, conducts social security number traces, and conducts checks against the military verification list and federal, national, state (based on applicant’s residency), and county criminal background and sex offender registry screenings. E. The Office of Patient Experience (“Patient Experience”) Patient Experience is responsible for performing Exclusion screenings for traditional volunteers. Patient Experience utilizes HR’s third party vendor for these screenings, which include social security number traces, county and state criminal and sex offender registry database searches, and comprehensive checks against FACIS as noted in the HR section above. F. Supplier Onboarding Team (“SOT”) Page 5 of 8 The SOT is part of the Supply Chain Management (“SCM”) Data Governance group and is responsible for reviewing all supplier onboarding requests for Vendors, including but not limited to those received from SCM, Medical Center Information Technology (“MCIT”), and Real Estate Development and Facilities (“RED+F”). The SOT works with IACERM to ensure that Exclusion screenings for all new suppliers, vendors, and payees take place prior to onboarding. G. SCM For prospective Vendors whose individuals (e.g., employees) will be working primarily on site in clinical spaces at NYU Langone Health, SCM is responsible for ensuring that the prospective Vendor is registered in the Vendor credentialing system, which includes a limited Exclusion screening (in addition to the SOT screening as referenced above). H. Ad Hoc Screening and Other Screenings Departments may also contact IACERM directly to perform an Exclusion screening for a prospective member of the NYU Langone Health community or Vendor at any time during the contract negotiation or onboarding process, as well we any time after association with NYU Langone Health. VII. Procedures for Post Association Exclusion Screening IACERM is generally responsible for Exclusion screenings after onboarding, granting of medical staff privileges, appointment, or other association, including contracting, with the individual or entity. IACERM utilizes a third party vendor to conduct these Exclusion screenings against designated federal and state Exclusion Lists and databases for all current members of the NYU Langone Health community, Vendors, and Ordering Providers. IACERM may modify from time to time the screenings it conducts as needed to ensure compliance with this Policy and any Federal Health Care Programs and/or government contract or award requirements. Most ongoing screenings are conducted on a monthly basis; however IACERM also conducts other checks (e.g., in rotator house staff) and additional ad hoc screenings upon need or request. As part of IACERM’s screening processes, IACERM’s third party vendor reviews any potential match and eliminates the match using pre defined clearing rules, which include utilizing other data elements such as name, date of birth, social security number, or other unique identifier. If any of these data elements are inconsistent with the Ineligible Person listed on the Exclusion List, the individual or entity is not a confirmed match as an Ineligible Person. If an individual or entity cannot be cleared by IACERM’s third party vendor, the potential match is escalated to IACERM for additional investigation. All NYU Langone Health workforce members, including all employees, sponsored individuals, and Vendors, are required to assist in this investigation process by providing the additional requested information, including but not limited to identification documents, and/or signing affidavits(s) as needed. If a match is confirmed, IACERM addresses the matter as outlined in this Policy in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section VIII.B. below. As noted in Section VI. B. above, MSS also conducts certain Exclusion checks, including checks against the SSDMF, prior to re appointment to the medical staff. Page 6 of 8 VIII. Procedures for Investigating Potential Ineligible Persons A. Pre Association. If a potential member of the NYU Langone Health community or Vendor is identified as a potential match to an Ineligible Person, the departments listed above should work with IACERM to further investigate and receive confirmation that the individual or entity is not the Ineligible Person if the department wishes to move forward with association with the individual or entity in question. Section IX. below notes actions if the investigation confirms the individual is a match to the Ineligible Person. B. Post Association. IACERM is responsible for investigating all potential matches to an Ineligible Person in accordance with department guidelines and procedures. IX. Procedures for Identified Ineligible Persons A. Pre Association 1) During the preliminary Exclusion screenings process contemplated by Section VI above, if a prospective member of the NYU Langone Health community is identified as an Ineligible Person, offers of employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, or other association, including contractual obligations, must be withdrawn and will not be reinstated unless to HR’s and IACERM’s full satisfaction: a. the Ineligible Person provides satisfactory evidence to HR, IACERM, and the designated responsible department (as applicable) indicating the Ineligible Person is not the individual who appears on the Exclusion List, or b. the Ineligible Person provides satisfactory proof of reinstatement for participation in Federal Health Care Programs or eligibility to receive government contracts or awards and HR, and the designated responsible department confirms the authenticity of the reinstatement and removal of the Ineligible Person from the Exclusion List. Any reinstatement of an offer is at NYU Langone Health’s discretion. NYU Langone Health is under no obligation to reinstate any offer of employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, or other association withdrawn pursuant to this sub section. 2) If a prospective Vendor is determined to be an Ineligible Person, neither NYU Langone Health nor any entity, department, or division thereof enter into any contract or agreement with the prospective Vendor until the prospective Vendor can demonstrate to NYU Langone Health’s satisfaction that it is no longer an Ineligible Person, is fully reinstated and able to participate in a Federal Health Care Program, and is eligible to receive government contracts or awards. Additional validation may be performed by IACERM to confirm the authenticity of the reinstatement or eligibility in these instances. NYU Langone Health is under no obligation to enter into any arrangement with a prospective Vendor determined to have been an Ineligible Person, even if reinstated as provided in this sub section. Page 7 of 8 B. Post Association 1) In the event any individual is identified and confirmed as an Ineligible Person, IACERM, the appropriate department(s), and/or leadership will work promptly to terminate the employment, medical staff privileges, appointment, or other association with NYU Langone Health of such Ineligible Person. Specifically, IACERM will also notify the following, if appropriate: a. Employees, residents, fellows, trainees, medical students, traditional and non traditional volunteers the Senior Vice President, Vice Dean of HR, or designee, and other appropriate leadership, such as GME, Faculty Group Practice, Office of Admissions, and the Office of Science and Research. b. Medical Staff MSS staff, via a monthly memo which notes any clinician who is an Ineligible Person (as an additional step to ensure that MSS does not provide privileges to or reinstate an Ineligible Person.) c. Trustees and officers the Dean/CEO, Audit and Compliance Committee, General Counsel, and other members of executive leadership as appropriate. d. Other appropriate individuals, including any managed care payors as required per the contract terms. 2) In the event any Ordering Provider is identified and confirmed as an Ineligible Person, IACERM will deactivate the individual as an approved provider in the NYU Langone Health electronic medical record system and terminate other access (if any). IACERM will also notify the Ordering Provider of such deactivation and non acceptance of orders. 3) In the event any Vendor is identified and confirmed as an Ineligible Person, IACERM will notify SCM and/or the contracting department(s) and they will work promptly to terminate the Ineligible Person and or the engagement of such Vendor as promptly as is permitted and appropriate in the applicable contracts with the Vendor. X. Policy Enforcement A. Any NYU Langone Health individual, Vendor, or Ordering Provider who is determined to be an Ineligible Person is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, as provided in this Policy. B. Violations of this Policy are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health, in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedure applicable to the individual in question. XI. Administration A. Questions. Any questions relating to this Policy should be directed to NYU Langone Health’s Vice President, IACERM (the Compliance Officer). Page 8 of 8 B. Record Retention. Documentation related to initial, ongoing, or ad hoc Exclusion screenings for NYU Langone Health, Vendors, and Ordering Providers must be maintained by the applicable screening department (e.g., Human Resources and IACERM) in accordance with applicable law, NYU Langone Health’s Record Retention Policy, and any additional requirements of the maintaining department. XII. Related Policies and Documents Code of Conduct Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating and Protection from Retaliation Policy Corporate Compliance Program IACERM Exclusion Screening and Investigation Procedure Guidelines XIII. Legal Authority/References Exclusion of Certain Individuals and Entities from Participation in Medicare and State Health Care Programs, 42 USC 1320a 7 Executive Order12549, 51 F.R. 6370, February 18, 1986, Debarment and Suspension Health Care Programs: Fraud and Abuse; Revisions to the Inspector General’s Exclusion Authorities, 42 CFR Parts 1000, 1001, 1002 and 1006 OIG Model Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 63 FR 8987 8998, February 23, 1998 OIG Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 70 FR 4858 4875, January 31, 2005 OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), 42 CFR 180, November 15, 2006 Updated Special Advisory Bulletin, “The Effect of Exclusion from Participation in Federal Health Care Programs,” May 2013 XIII. Version History December 23, 2005 Original Policy June 18, 2018 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2019 Reviewed and Revised November 27, 2019 Reviewed and Revised February 7, 2020 Reviewed and Revised August 10, 2020 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 6 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: 5/1994 Reissue Date: 4/1/2024 Responding to Governmental Investigations and Law Enforcement Requests I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to cooperating fully with all reasonable requests from governmental agencies, including both regulatory agencies and law enforcement, that have legal authority over NYU Langone Health’s activities. II. Policy Purpose To provide guidance to the NYU Langone Health community on how to respond appropriately to inquiries from regulatory agencies and law enforcement about NYU Langone Health’s activities, enabling NYU Langone Health to cooperate fully with a government or law enforcement investigation or request. III. Applicability of the Policy This policy applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. IV. Definitions Authorized Investigator means an authorized representative, including surveyors, of federal, state, or city governmental agencies, including both regulatory agencies and law enforcement that has legal authority over NYU Langone Health’s activities. An Authorized Investigator may be from a variety of governmental agencies or their agents, including but not limited to the Department of Health and Human Services, New York State Department of Health, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, The Joint Commission, Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, Internal Revenue Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York City Police Department, or the New York State Attorney General. Legal Process means a summons, complaint, subpoena, order to show cause, notice of probate or petition, or court order that may be served upon NYU Langone Health that commands an individual and/or entity to testify or to produce documents at an attorney’s office or at court, or to take another action ordered by a court. Please see Appendix A for additional information regarding compliance with Legal Process. NYU Langone Health includes the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This policy has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (the “FHC”); therefore, for purposes of this policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the FHC, and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded. Page 2 of 6 V. Policy NYU Langone Health cooperates fully with reasonable requests from an Authorized Investigator that relate to NYU Langone Health’s activities. Given the nature of NYU Langone Health’s activities, certain requests may require that Legal Process be appropriately served prior to NYU Langone Health providing such documents, witnesses, or other such actions, at which time NYU Langone Health will cooperate. Under no circumstances shall any member of the NYU Langone Health community ever lie or make misleading statements to an Authorized Investigator, or pressure any other person to hide information from, or provide false information to, an Authorized Investigator. No member of the NYU Langone Health community shall knowingly or recklessly alter, destroy, mutilate, conceal, cover up, or falsify any record or document (i) with the intent to impede any investigation by a governmental agency, litigation, or administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of a federal or state department or agency, or any bankruptcy proceeding and/or (ii) that is relevant to such a proceeding, or otherwise subject to an instruction to preserve such documents from the Office of Legal Counsel (“OLC”). To the extent a request covered by this Policy relates to the FHC and is within the scope of services provided by NYU Langone Health, NYU Langone Health will respond and/or coordinate with FHC leadership. For requests outside the scope of NYU Langone Health’s services to the FHC, FHC leadership will be notified and provided with any documentation provided to NYU Langone Health. VI. Procedures A. General Procedures Authorized Investigators may contact a member of the NYU Langone Health community in a variety of ways. If contact was made by letter or other written correspondence, the requesting document should be forwarded to the Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075 as soon as possible. Legal Process, which include subpoenas, summonses, complaints, orders to show cause, notice of probate or petitions, and other court orders, may only be accepted by designated offices in accordance with the NYU Langone Health Service of Process Policy. Any member of the NYU Langone Health community who is approached at work or at home by an Authorized Investigator concerning NYU Langone Health should ask for the following: 1) the Authorized Investigator’s name and agency affiliation (obtain a business card when possible); 2) proof of his/her identity and credentials; 3) a description of the information sought; and 4) if there are any Legal Process to be served (e.g., subpoena or search warrant), a copy. *In the event you suspect the individual is not who they purport to be, refer to the Office of Legal Counsel. Verification of identity may also be established by contacting the agency directly to verify the individual’s credentials. If a member of the NYU Langone Health community is contacted at work (or learns of an Page 3 of 6 unaccounted visit) by an Authorized Investigator (i) to coordinate a planned visit or survey or (ii) inquire about matters related to individual persons, including patients, unrelated to NYU Langone Health activities, report as appropriate to: • The NYU Langone Health Security Operations Center at 212 263 5120 or x7 3000 (for Main Campus), the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Security Desk at 212 598 6202, or the NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn Security Desk at 718 630 8115 (for all Brooklyn locations). The Security Office will verify the Authorized Investigator’s identity and credentials, and notify appropriate administrative officials depending on the nature of the contact; • The Chief Regulatory Officer at 347 578 0560 (for any matter relating to any inpatient or outpatient hospital facility); or • The Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075 (for all other matters). B. Requests for an Interview Authorized Investigators may request to interview a member of the NYU Langone Health community. You should be aware of the following: • There is no obligation to consent to an interview prior to speaking with your supervisor and/or the Office of Legal Counsel, regardless if you are approached at work or at home. • You may request to have the interview conducted during normal business hours. • Answers to Authorized Investigators questions must be accurate; never speculate or guess. If you are not sure of an answer, say so. C. Documentation Requests Authorized Investigators may request, either in person during an onsite visit or via written requests, documents, including patient records. In most cases, requests for documentation must be accompanied by the appropriate Legal Process and accepted in accordance with the Service of Process Policy. Requests for medical (patient) records from certain Authorized Investigators (e.g., Joint Commission surveyor) may not require the patient’s authorization or Legal Process. Contact the Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075 or the Privacy Officer at 212 404 4079 for assistance prior to releasing any records. D. Search Warrants A search warrant is a type of Legal Paper that authorizes a law enforcement agent to search for and seize property that may be evidence of a crime. Should an Authorized Investigator present a search warrant: 1) ask for the identification and obtain and record the names of each of the Authorized Investigators and their agency affiliation(s); 2) contact the Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075; 3) request that the search not begin until legal counsel arrives (unless otherwise directed by OLC); and 4) request copies of the warrant and affidavit providing reasons for the issuance of the warrant. Never consent to an expansion of the search beyond the scope of the search warrant but do not interfere with the search. You should object to any search of privilege documents. This includes but is not limited to: • any attorney correspondence Page 4 of 6 • patient information (unless otherwise permitted by the search warrant or valid HIPAA and New York State Authorization or otherwise required by law) • personnel files Once advised by the Office of Legal Counsel, attempt to negotiate an acceptable methodology with the Authorized Investigator to minimize disruptions and to keep track of the process. Monitor and record the manner in which the search is conducted, noting in detail the areas and files searched, the time periods, and any seized items. If possible, video record the search. If the Authorized Investigator claims the taping interferes with the search, make a record of the refusal. Do not persist if the Authorized Investigator have warned that they regard the taping as interfering. You are not required to speak with the Authorized Investigator but must provide the documents requested in the warrant (if any). VII. Policy Enforcement The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) has general responsibility for implementation of this policy. Individuals who are found to be non compliant with applicable federal, state, or local laws and regulations, professional standards, and institutional policies may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health. Such institutional policies include but are not limited to the Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Program, and the policies set forth in the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program Contract, GME House Staff manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, By laws of the Medical Staff, and Patient Care and Safety Standards. This Policy shall remain in effect unless terminated or superseded by a revised and/or updated policy issued by IACERM. VIII. Related Policies and Documents Breach Notification By laws of the Medical and Dental Staff Code of Conduct Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating and Protection from Retaliation Policy Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About the Reporting and Investigation Process Guide Notice to Employees Concerning Rights and Remedies Under the Pilot Program for Enhancement of Employee Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. 4712) Corporate Compliance Program Record Retention Policy Service of Process Policy IX. Legal Authority/References Federal Deficit Reduction Act, 42 U.S.C. §1396a (a)(68) Federal False Claims Act 31 U.S.C. §3729 3731 New York State Department of Health Office of Medicaid Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for General Hospitals, N.Y. Soc. Serv. Law §363 d(1), (2) and (4); 18 N.Y.C.R.R. §521.1(a) and §521.3(a) New York State False Claims Act, State Finance Law, §187 194 OIG Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 63 Federal Register 8987, February 23, 1998, Page 5 of 6 Federal Sentencing Guidelines OIG Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 70 Federal Register 4858, January 31, 2005 Pilot Program for Enhancement of Contractor Protector from Reprisal for Disclosure of Certain Information, 41 U.S.C. §4712 X. Version History May 1994 Original Policy August 2003 Reviewed February 2014 Reviewed and Revised July 27, 2017 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2019 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2022 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital. Appendix A: The Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) sample flowchart on responding to law enforcement is included herein as Appendix A on the following page. This should be used as guide on types of documents, not as official legal advice on whether compliance with certain law enforcement requests is required or not. NYU Langone Health workforce members should consult the Office of Legal Counsel or other appropriate department for law enforcement requests as described in this Policy. Subpoenas should further be processed in accordance with the Service of Process Policy. Page 6 of 6


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Policy Patients have the right to request a restriction on certain Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) to their Health Plan (i.e., insurer). NYU Langone Health is required to agree to this type of restriction when a patient requests such a restriction and pays for the health care item or service in full and out of pocket (i.e., not by their insurer). NYU Langone Health will not violate the restriction, except to the extent that such a Use or Disclosure is required by law or the restriction has been properly terminated. For a restriction to be considered properly terminated, one of the following must take place: • the patient revoked the restriction, in writing, or • the patient defaulted on the payment(s) for services covered by the restriction. By requesting this type of Disclosure restriction to a Health Plan, the patient understands that: • all estimated costs must be paid based on the standard self pay discounted rate on the date of service, • the final bill must be paid in full when received or a payment plan in place in coordination with Financial Counseling, • they are not eligible for financial assistance beyond a payment plan as described here, • only those records relating to the fully paid out of pocket services will be kept from the Health Plan, and • they will not submit any bills for the included services to the Health Plan. If a patient defaults (i.e., fails to pay) on payment(s), NYU Langone Health has the right to bill and Disclose the information necessary to obtain Payment from the Health Plan, after reasonable efforts have been made to collect payment. The patient will be responsible for payment of the full amount due for all services not covered by the Health Plan, including those not covered because pre authorization was not obtained prior to the service or the timeline for submission to the Health Plan has lapsed due to NYU Langone Health providing the patient opportunity to submit payment. The patient is responsible for alerting or requesting restrictions with all other providers not listed on the form. Applicable departmental personnel will be trained on the procedures for properly flagging the encounters in the electronic medical record and handling disclosure restrictions to Health Plans. Page 2 of 2 Procedure 1. All patient requests for this restriction must be made in writing by completing the Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer form. This form should be thoroughly discussed and submitted to Patient Registration or Admitting (or the appropriate practice manager for outpatient visits). 2. Ensure that the health care item or service is flagged in the electronic medical record (i.e., in Epic) by indicating the payor type “Non Payor/Non Disclosure Plan”. Any record with this payor type should not be Disclosed to the Health Plan. 3. Payment in full or the estimated payment must be made on the date of service, except in emergency situations when payment must be made with submission of the Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer Form prior to the submission of request for payment to the Health Plan. 4. Scan the completed form into the patient’s medical record. Related Documents HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Patient Request to Restrict Disclosures of Protected Health Information to an Insurer form Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 8 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy Patients have the right to access or inspect their Protected Health Information (“PHI”) contained in the Designated Record Set. Patients also have the right to obtain copies (paper or electronic) of their PHI contained in the Designated Record Set. NYU Langone Health, in limited circumstances, may deny this right. Patients may also have the right to an internal and/or the New York State Medical Access Review Board review of a denial. All patient requests to inspect and/or obtain a copy of PHI must be submitted in writing in accordance with NYU Langone Health procedures. NYU Langone Health will respond to all requests as soon as possible and in accordance with this Policy. A reasonable, cost based fee may be imposed for providing copies of the patient’s PHI. A reasonable, cost based fee may be also be imposed for the creation of a summary or explanation of information in lieu of a patient exercising their right to inspect PHI. NYU Langone Health may not deny a patient’s request to access, inspect, or obtain copies of medical records solely because of the patient’s inability to pay for the requested copy or any outstanding medical treatment bills. Workforce Members should be aware that special privacy protections apply to Confidential HIV Related Information, alcohol and substance abuse information, mental health information, and genetic information. Procedure 1. All requests to inspect PHI must be made in writing, using the Patient Request to Inspect PHI form. • Where available, NYU Langone Health Workforce Members may also encourage the patient to access their medical information online via the patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart, available at: https://mychart.nyulmc.org/mychart/. 2. All requests to obtain copies of PHI must be made in writing, and should use a valid authorization that meets both New York State and HIPAA requirements. If providing request in writing is not feasible, an oral/verbal request can be accepted if a patients identity can be verified. The NYU Langone Health Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Page 2 of 8 Protected Health Information form is preferred; however, the New York State HIPAA form is acceptable. Any other authorization must be valid under both New York State and HIPAA regulations. Consult the Privacy Officer as necessary. • The completed form may be mailed or hand delivered to the appropriate address as indicated on the form’s directions. Forms may also be faxed or emailed, dependent on location and availability to receive such format. • Patient requests for copies of HIPAA related Authorizations do not require a signed Authorization form and can be provided to the patient at any time. 3. A patient’s Personal Representative may request access to inspect the patient’s PHI. NYU Langone Health should generally grant or deny access in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Policy as though the Personal Representative were the patient, unless one of the following exceptions apply: • If a physician has certified that the patient lacks the capacity to make health care decisions and a Personal Representative is designated, the NYU Langone Health must grant the Personal Representative full access to the patient’s PHI, even if the patient would otherwise be denied access under this Policy. Full access is required under New York State law to allow the personal representative to make informed decisions regarding the patient’s health care. • If a personal representative requests access to the PHI of a patient over the age of 12 years, NYU Langone Health may notify the patient and permit the patient the opportunity to object to such access by the Personal Representative. If the patient objects, NYU Langone Health may deny the Personal Representative’s request for access. Consultation with the treating practitioner is required before rendering a decision. NYU Langone Health must provide written notice of the decision to the Personal Representative in accordance with the procedures set forth in this policy. • A parent or guardian is not entitled to inspect or obtain copies of any patient information concerning the care or treatment of a patient under the age of 18 (a “minor”) if the treating physician certifies that such access would have a detrimental effect on:  the physician’s professional relationship with the minor,  the care or treatment of the minor, or  the minor’s relationship with his or her parents or guardian. *NYU Langone Health must provide written notification of such a decision. • A parent or guardian is not entitled to inspect or obtain copies of any patient information concerning the treatment of a minor patient for a venereal disease or the performance of an abortion operation (i.e., family planning services). 4. Workforce Members should forward the completed form to the appropriate unit as follows: • requests to inspect PHI to: NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016. • requests to obtain copies of Tisch Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, and other NYU Langone Hospitals site records not listed below to: HIM, NYU Langone Hospitals, 650 First Ave, 6th Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 5490). Page 3 of 8 • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital records to: HIM, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, 301 East 17th St, NY, NY 10003 (212 598 6790) (in person at 380 2nd Ave, Suite 640, NY, NY 10003). • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn records to: HIM, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (718 630 7125). • requests to obtain copies of NYU Langone Hospital Long Island records requests made in person: Admitting Office Main Lobby, 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501; record requests made via mail: 200 Old Country Road, Suite 201, Mineola, NY 11501, (516 663 2515, #4) • requests to obtain copies of Perlmutter Cancer Center records to: HIM, Perlmutter Cancer Center, 160 E 34th St, NY, NY 10016 (212 731 6180). • requests to obtain copies of Faculty Group Practice records to: the individual practice. • requests to obtain copies of NYU Winthrop Certified Home Health Agency to: NYU Winthrop CHHA, 290 Old Country Road, Mineola, NY 11501 (516 663 8000).requests to obtain copies of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health records to: Director FHC Network Operations, at FHCPatientRelations@nyulangone.org • requests to obtain copies of Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records to: 219 54th Street, Brooklyn, NY (929 455 2099). 5. Determine, as appropriate, after consultation with the Attending Physician or similar, whether the request to inspect or obtain copies should be granted or denied, in whole or in part. Refer to the chart below for further explanation. Basis for Denial Right to Internal Review of Denial? Right to Review of Denial by the NYS Medical Access Review Board? Incomplete Request Form No No The information requested is not contained in a Designated Record Set Maintained by NYU Langone or its Business Associate(s), for example the information was obtained from another provider No No The information was obtained or created in the course of Research and the Research is still in progress (provided the patient agreed to this denial of access when consenting to the Research study) No No The information requested are the personal notes or observations of the clinician No Yes A licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that Yes Yes; judicial review also available Page 4 of 8 granting access is reasonably likely to endanger the life or safety of the patient or another person The information makes reference to another person and a licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that granting access is reasonably likely to cause substantial harm to the referenced person Yes Yes; judicial review also available The information was requested by the patient’s Personal Representative and a licensed health care professional has determined, in the exercise of professional judgment, that granting access is reasonably likely to cause substantial harm to the patient or another person Yes Yes; judicial review also available The information was compiled in reasonable anticipation of, or for use in, a civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding No No The information was obtained from someone other than a health care provider under an agreement of confidentiality and access to the information would reveal the identity of the person No No Provision of the information to the requesting inmate would jeopardize the health, safety, security, custody, or rehabilitation of the requesting inmate, other inmates, officers or employees at the correctional institution, or other persons responsible for transporting the inmate No No The information is a lab result that must be obtained directly from the ordering clinician; the clinician’s authorization is required before release. No No 6. Respond to all requests, in the manner described in number 9 below, to inspect or obtain copies of PHI within 10 days from receipt of the form. • If a request obtain copies cannot be fulfilled within the timeframe, notify the requestor in writing of the reasons for the delay (e.g., records are located offsite) and the date by which the patient can expect a response. Only one 30 day extension is permitted (i.e., records must be provided within 60 days of receiving request). 7. Provide the records in the form and format requested by the patient. • When an individual requests an electronic copy of paper records, NYU Langone Health will provide the individual with an electronic copy in the format requested (e.g., PDF, Word Document) if it is readily producible (i.e., scan the paper documents). • When an individual requests an electronic copy of electronic records, NYU Langone Health will provide the individual with the information in the form and format requested if it is readily producible (e.g., MyChart). Page 5 of 8 • For fax requests, confirm fax number prior to sending. • For email requests, notify the recipient that the email will be sent using NYU Langone Health secure email, Send Safe.  If the file is too large (e.g., diagnostic images) notify the requestor and determine appropriate alternative method. Consult with the Privacy Officer as necessary. • If a patient requests that their medical records be sent via unencrypted email, the request MUST be sent to the Privacy Officer for review and fulfillment. The Privacy Officer will ensure that the requestor confirms, after receiving a notification message regarding the security of unencrypted email transmission that they still wish to receive their records in this manner. This message and confirmation of acceptance will be scanned into the medical record with the release form. Requests for records in other forms or formats (e.g., USB drive) will be honored when the form and format are readily producible. Consult the Privacy Officer as necessary. 8. Inform the patient where to direct their request to inspect or obtain copies of PHI, if NYU Langone Health does not maintain the record that is the subject of the patient’s request and the Workforce Member knows where the requested information is maintained. 9. Inform the requestor of the decision. • Request Granted:  to inspect: inform in writing using the Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Granted template.  to obtain copies: no written response required if available with timeframe, provide copies in the form and format requested. • Request Denied:  to inspect: inform in writing using the Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Denied template.  to obtain copies: inform in writing using the Patient Request to Obtain a Copy of Protected Health Information Denied template.  include: the reason(s) for the denial, their right (if any) to seek further review, and a description of how the patient may complain to NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and New York State Department of Health, by including a “New York State Department of Health Denial of Access to Patient Information and Appeal Form”, available at: http://www.health.ny.gov/forms/doh 1989.pdf. 10. Verify the requestor’s identity prior to providing access or copies. 11. Remove any PHI to which the requestor is not permitted access prior to providing an opportunity to inspect or prior to providing copies of the requested records. 12. During inspection: Page 6 of 8 • A Workforce Member will remain in the room to ensure that there is no tampering with any information, but remain at a reasonable distance to afford privacy. • Do not attempt to explain any information contained in the record, unless the Workforce Members is a licensed health care professional associated with the inspected record. • If the requestor asks to obtain copies, he/she must complete and submit the form. 13. Workforce Members need only produce the requested PHI once (for inspection and/or obtaining copies), even if it is maintained in more than one Designated Record Set, or at more than one location. 14. If the patient agrees in advance, NYU Langone Health may provide the patient with a written summary or explanation of the PHI that is the subject of the request to inspect or obtain in lieu of providing an opportunity to inspect or actual copies, even if the request would be denied under this policy. NYU Langone Health may charge the patient for the costs associated with preparing the summary or explanation, so long as the patient agrees in advance to such costs. 15. NYU Langone Health may charge fees as follows and the individual will be informed of any such approximate fee in advance: • NYU Langone Health may charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed 0.75¢ per page plus postage for the reproduction and delivery of patient records. This fee is based on cost based expenses, such as labor for copying, supplies, and postage if mailed. o Permissible fees for labor for ‘copying’ does not include labor costs to search, retrieve, review, identify, segregate, collect, compile, and prepare the information. Costs for outsourcing access cannot be the basis of fees charged. o Per page fees are not permitted for paper or electronic copies of PHI maintained electronically. o Patients will not be charged for records which are requested for the purpose of supporting an application, claim, or appeal for any government benefit or program, in compliance with New York State law. The patient must note on the Request Form this as the purpose for the release. “Government benefit or program” may include (but is not limited to) applications for Social Security disability or September 11th survivor health benefits or appeals. • For electronic copies of electronic PHI, NYU Langone Health may charge a flat fee not to exceed $6.50 or, alternatively, calculate the average or actual allowable costs for these types of requests. • Copies of radiology films are provided on a password protected CD/DVD for a reasonable cost based fee. • Patients will not be charged for the costs of producing an original mammogram (i.e., original as opposed to a copy of the mammogram), but may charge patients for the cost of delivering the original mammogram. Page 7 of 8 16. If the patient requests an internal review of a denial: • Workforce Members must promptly refer the request for review to the Senior Director of HIM or the Privacy Officer who will refer the matter as follows:  The Chief Medical Officer will review the denial of a request to access NYU Langone Hospitals records.  The Chief Clinical Officer will review the denial of a request to access School of Medicine or Faculty Group Practice records.  The Medical Director at the respective site will review the denial of a request to access: the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health and the Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records.  If the above listed individuals participated in any manner in the decision to deny access, the Privacy Officer will appoint a reviewing official who is a licensed health care professional to review. • The Reviewing Official must:  determine, within 15 days from receipt of the request whether or not to deny the patient’s request to inspect based on the permitted grounds for denial.  promptly notify the referring department of his or her decision.  The referring department must provide written notice of the decision to the patient within 15 days of receipt of the reviewing official’s decision.  If the Reviewing Official determines that access should be granted, NYU Langone Health must provide access as set forth in this Policy. 17. If the patient requests review of the denial by the appropriate New York State Medical Access Review Committee (“Committee”), NYU Langone Health must transmit the information, including personal notes and observations, within 10 days of the receipt of such request to the chairman of the appropriate Committee with a statement setting forth the basis of the denial. In the event that the Committee determines that the request for access shall be granted, in whole or in part, NYU Langone Health shall grant access pursuant to the Committee’s determination and/or with the procedures set forth in this Policy. 18. If the patient seeks judicial review of the denial, Workforce Members will forward all such requests or subpoenas to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) or the Office of Legal Counsel. Related Documents Designated Record Set HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions NYU Langone Health Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information form Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Denied template Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information form Page 8 of 8 Patient Request to Inspect Protected Health Information Granted template Patient Request to Obtain a Copy of Protected Health Information Denied template Verification of Identity and Authority Prior to Disclosure of PHI Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.524 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request Additional Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of PHI Policy Patients have the right to request additional restrictions on the Use or Disclosure of their Protected Health Information (“PHI”) for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, to family or friends involved in the patient’s care, or for notification purposes (to family and friends or entities authorized to assist in disaster relief efforts). NYU Langone Health is not required to agree to this restriction, except in one limited circumstance, governed by the Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan policy. For restrictions agreed upon by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) , NYU Langone Health will not Use or Disclose PHI in violation of that restriction, unless: • the Use or Disclosure is necessary for emergency treatment (however, NYU Langone Health must request that the recipient health care provider not further Use or Disclose the information), • is required or permitted by law, or • the restriction has been terminated in accordance with this Policy. For example, a patient may request that NYU Langone Health refrain from Disclosing the results of a lab test to a clinician or to a particular family member, who is otherwise specifically authorized to receive PHI. The request form and decision letter will be maintained by IACERM. All agreed upon restrictions will also be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. Procedure 1. All patient requests for restrictions must be made in writing. Patients must complete the Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information form. 2. Workforce Members will forward the patient’s completed form to IACERM. 3. IACERM will determine, in consultation with appropriate Workforce Members including clinicians, whether a request for restriction should be accepted or denied. IACERM will Page 2 of 2 notify the patient in writing of his or her decision within 30 days from the receipt of the request. Other than as provided by the Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan policy, NYU Langone Health is not required to agree to a request for a restriction. 4. IACERM will notify the Workforce Member who submitted the patient’s form of the outcome as appropriate. 5. IACERM will notify any Business Associates as necessary, about any restrictions it has agreed to the extent the restriction affects the Business Associate’s performance of services and in accordance with the Business Associate Agreement. 6. To terminate a restriction, NYU Langone Health must either: • obtain the patient’s agreement in writing. If the patient orally agrees to terminate the restriction, the oral agreement must be documented, including the date of the oral agreement; or • inform the patient in writing that the restriction agreement is terminated. In such a case, the termination is only effective with respect to PHI that is created or received after the patient has been informed. Related Documents Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Restricting Disclosures to a Health Plan Patient Request to Restrict Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information form Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Uses and Disclosures of PHI for Treatment, Payment and Health Care Operations Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522(a) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request an Accounting of Disclosures of PHI Policy Patients have a right to an accounting of Disclosures of their Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health must provide patients with such an accounting made during the six (6) years prior to the date of request. NYU Langone Health will provide the first accounting of Disclosures requested by a patient within a twelve month period free of cost; all subsequent requests within a twelve month period may be subject to a reasonable, cost based fee (e.g., supplies, labor, postage). The patient will be informed of any fee in advance and provided with an opportunity to withdraw or modify the request for the subsequent accounting in order to avoid or reduce the fee. Workforce Members must record Disclosures of PHI in the patient’s medical record or in the Accounting for Disclosures Database as required by the Accounting for Disclosures of PHI policy. Types of Disclosures that will be included are those made: • as required by law (e.g. reporting certain types of wounds), • for public health activities (e.g., reporting communicable diseases or births/deaths), • to report victims of abuse, neglect, and domestic violence, • for health oversight activities (e.g., requested by the Federal Office of Inspector General or the New York State Department of Health), • for judicial and administrative proceedings (e.g., pursuant to a valid subpoena), • for reports about decedents (e.g., to coroners, medical examiners, and funeral directors), • for cadaveric organ, eye, or tissue donation purposes, • for research conducted under an Institutional Review Board Waiver of Authorization, • to avert a serious threat to health and safety, • for certain specialized government functions (e.g., military and veterans affairs; medical suitability determinations), • for workers compensation purposes, • any other Disclosure that is not specifically excluded (including mistaken or unauthorized Disclosure), as provided below. Page 2 of 4 Types of Disclosures that will not be included are those made: • for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, • to the patient or their Personal Representative, • in accordance with the patient’s written Authorization, • incidental to a permitted disclosure, • to family or friends involved in the patient’s care or for notification purposes, • for national security or intelligence purposes, • to law enforcement or correctional institutions about an inmate or other person in legal custody, and • made for the creation of De Identified Information or a Limited Data Set. NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend a patient’s right to receive an accounting of Disclosures that are made to a health oversight agency or to a law enforcement agency if the agency so requests as follows: • The agency provides NYU Langone Health with a written statement that providing an accounting of Disclosures is reasonably likely to impede the agency’s activities. The agency must specify the time for which suspension is required. • The agency orally informs NYU Langone Health that providing an accounting of Disclosures is reasonably likely to impede the agency’s activities. If an oral statement is made, Workforce Members must document the statement and the identity of the agency making the statement. NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend the patient’s right to an accounting of the particular Disclosures covered by the statement for no longer than 30 days. If the agency provides a written statement within 30 days of the oral statement, NYU Langone Health must temporarily suspend the patient’s right to an accounting of the particular Disclosures for the time specified in the written statement. The request form and the accounting provided to the patient will be retained by IACERM. Procedure 1. All requests for an accounting of Disclosures must be submitted in writing, using the Request for an Accounting of Disclosures form, to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). 2. Upon receipt of the completed form IACERM will gather the requested information by: • obtaining a Patient Disclosure Report from Epic, • obtaining a report from the Accounting for Disclosures Database (including any reports with respect to archived database within the covered timeframe), • obtaining the Protocol List from the Institutional Review Board (“IRB”), • contacting Business Associate(s) as necessary to request the information required (or providing the Business Associate(s)’ contact information to the patient for direct submission of their request), and • querying any other system or paper records that contain patient disclosures (e.g., CDC National Healthcare Safety Network; the Electronic Clinical Laboratory Reporting System). Page 3 of 4 3. IACERM will attach the Protocol List to the accounting of Disclosures. The IRB must, at the patient’s request, assist the patient in contacting the research sponsor and the researcher if there is a reasonable likelihood that the patient’s PHI was actually disclosed for the Research protocol or activity. 4. Each Disclosure must include: • the date of the Disclosure, • the name of the entity/person receiving the PHI and, if known, the address of such entity or person (to the extent this does not violate the HIPAA Rules), • a brief description of the PHI that was Disclosed, and • a brief description of the purpose of the Disclosure or, in lieu of such statement, a copy of a written request for a Disclosure under §§ 164.502(a)(2)(ii) or 164.512, if any. o If, during the accounting period requested, multiple Disclosures were made to the same person or entity for a single purpose, the accounting may list the information above in addition to the frequency, periodicity, or number of disclosures made during the accounting period and the date of the last such disclosure during the accounting period. 5. Each disclosure made to an external researcher for a particular Research purpose involving 50 or more individuals pursuant to an IRB Waiver of Authorization must include: • the name of the protocol or other Research activity, • a brief description in plain language of the Research protocol or other Research activity, including the purpose of the Research and the criteria for selecting particular records, • a brief description of the type of PHI that was Disclosed, • the date or period of time during which Disclosures occurred, • the name, address, and telephone number of the entity that sponsored the Research and of the researcher to whom the information was Disclosed, and • a statement that the PHI of the patient may or may not have been Disclosed for a particular protocol or Research activity. 6. IACERM will provide the accounting of Disclosures to the patient within 60 days of receipt of the form. If IACERM cannot respond within 60 days, IACERM will notify the patient in writing of the reasons for the delay and the date by which the accounting of Disclosures will be provided. NYU Langone Health is only permitted one 30 day extension per request. 7. An invoice will be attached to the accounting of Disclosures if applicable. Related Documents Accounting for Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Request for an Accounting of Disclosures form Page 4 of 4 Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.528 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request an Amendment Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to maintaining accurate, clear, and complete medical and billing records and to upholding a patient’s rights with respect to their health information. To this end, patients are permitted to request, in writing, that NYU Langone Health amend Protected Health Information (“PHI”) contained in NYU Langone Health’s Designated Record Set or in a Designated Record Set held by a NYU Langone Health Business Associate. This right applies only to factual statements contained in the record and not to the provider’s observations, inferences, or conclusions. The request to amend PHI may be denied if it is determined that the information recorded: • is accurate and complete, • was created by another provider (i.e., an external record or not originator of record), • is no longer maintained by NYU Langone Health (e.g., the record has been destroyed in accordance with the Records Retention policy), and/or • is not available for access by the patient (see chart reference in Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI policy). The patient may require NYU Langone Health to append a brief statement of disagreement prepared by the patient to the record at issue. The statement of disagreement should not exceed 500 words. The patient’s statement of disagreement must be released whenever the information at issue is released. Alternatively, the patient may request NYU Langone Health to release the patient’s request form and the denial letter whenever the information at issue is released. If the information at issue is Disclosed through an electronic transaction that does not permit inclusion of the statement of disagreement, the form, and/or denial letter, Health Information Management (“HIM”) personnel or other appropriate Workforce Member must separately transmit the material with the Disclosure or request. Procedure When an adult patient, a minor who is allowed to consent to his or her own Treatment, or the parent or guardian of a minor patient believes that the health information NYU Langone Health maintains in a Designated Record Set is inaccurate or incomplete, the patient may request an amendment to that information. Page 2 of 4 1. The patient must submit the request in writing, by completing a Request to Amend Protected Health Information form and submit it as follows: • to amend Tisch Hospital, Rusk Rehabilitation, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, and other NYU Langone Hospitals site records not listed, submit to: Patient Relations Office 550 1St Ave, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 6906) or the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer (One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). • to amend NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn records, submit to: Patient Relations Office 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (718 630 7314). • to amend NYU Winthrop Hospital records, submit to: Patient Relations Office, 259 First Street, Mineola, NY 11501 (516 663 2058). • to amend Perlmutter Cancer Center records, submit to: HIM, Perlmutter Cancer Center, 160 E 34th St, 10th Floor, NY, NY 10003 (212 731 5096). • to amend Faculty Group Practice records, submit directly to the individual practice location/practice manager. • to amend Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health or the NYU Langone Health Home Care, submit to the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). • to amend Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice records, submit to: 219 54th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 (929 455 2099). • for any other location or if unsure where to submit, send to Patient Relations Office, 550 1st Ave, NY, NY 10016 (212 263 6906) or the NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer at One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10016 (212 404 4079). 2. The receiving Workforce Member will acknowledge receipt of the form within seven (7) days. If a request for amendment is part of a formal, written patient complaint, Patient Relations will acknowledge receipt. 3. The appropriate Workforce Member, in consultation with the clinician of record and the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) as necessary, will determine whether to grant or deny the patient’s request to amend. 4. The appropriate Workforce Member must respond to the patient’s request within 60 days of receipt of the form. One 30 day extension is permitted so long as the patient is notified in writing of the reason for the extension and the date the patient can expect a response. 5. NYU Langone Health will accept or deny the requested amendment. The determination will be made by the treating clinician or author of the subject of the amendment, in consultation with other Workforce Members, including IACERM as necessary. i. If the patient’s request to amend is granted: • The clinician of record will amend or correct the record that is the subject of the request, dating and signing any amendment or correction in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy. Page 3 of 4 • The appropriate Workforce Member will notify the patient in writing of the decision and will make reasonable efforts to provide the amendment to persons identified by the patient and to persons, including Business Associates, whom NYU Langone Health knows has the information that is the subject of the patient’s request. • The amendment must be released whenever the information at issue is Disclosed. If the information is Disclosed through an electronic transaction that does not permit inclusion of the amended material, HIM personnel or the appropriate Workforce Member must separately transmit the amended material. ii. If the patient’s request to amend is denied, in whole or in part: • The appropriate Workforce Member will notify the patient in writing of the decision using the Request to Amend Protected Health Information Denied template letter, including:  the ground for denial,  a statement of the patient’s right to submit a statement of disagreement not to exceed 500 words,  a statement that the patient may alternatively request that NYU Langone include the patient’s form and the denial letter when disclosing information to others in the future, and  a description of how the patient may complain to the NYU Langone Privacy Officer, the U.S. Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the New York State Department of Health (or other appropriate oversight agency). 6. NYU Langone Health may prepare a written rebuttal to the patient’s written statement to be included in the patient’s record and released whenever the information at issue is released. NYU Langone Health must provide a copy of the rebuttal statement to the patient. 7. If NYU Langone Health is informed, by another provider, of an amendment to a patient’s record, Workforce Members, in consultation with IACERM, will make the requested amendment and will date and sign any amendment that is made in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy. 8. HIM, practice managers, and/or the clinician of record are responsible for ensuring that the patient’s form, denial letter, if any, rebuttal statement, if any, and NYU Langone Health’s rebuttal statement, if any, are appended to the record and information at issue, whether in paper or electronic form (e.g., scanned into Epic) and included in any subsequent Disclosure of the information at issue. Related Documents Designated Record Sets HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Request to Amend Protected Health Information Denied template Request to Amend Protected Health Information form Page 4 of 4 Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.526 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Right to Request Confidential or Alternative Communications Policy NYU Langone Health permits patients to request confidential or alternative communications with respect to their Protected Health Information (“PHI”). For example, a patient may request that NYU Langone Health communicate with them at his or her place of employment rather than his or her place of residence, or at a designated address or email address. All requests for confidential communications after initial patient intake should be submitted in writing, unless the request is made in an urgent or emergency situation. Workforce Members must document the date of the request and the alternative communication method or address in the patient’s medical record. NYU Langone Health will accommodate all reasonable requests for alternative communications. A request is unreasonable if it is impractical (e.g., a request to communicate with a patient only within a short period of time after office hours). The patient is required to explain why they are requesting alternative communication as a condition to accommodating the patient’s request. However, if appropriate under the circumstances, NYU Langone Health may require the patient to explain how payment for treatment will be handled, and/or to specify an alternative address, or other method of contact before providing the requested accommodation. The request form will be maintained by IACERM. All agreed upon confidential or alternative communications will also be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. To ensure compliance with patient requests, Workforce Members should review a patient’s medical record to determine whether a patient has requested confidential or alternative communications. Procedure 1. At the time of intake, Workforce Members will ask the patient for his or her preferred contact information. The Workforce Member will document the patient’s preferred contact information in the demographics section of the patient’s medical record. Should the patient request confidential communications, the confidential address or other contact information will be flagged in the patient’s medical record. Page 2 of 2 2. After initial intake, all patient requests for alternative communications must be made in writing. To request alternative communications, the patient should complete the Patient Request for Confidential Communications of Protected Health Information form. 3. Workforce Members will forward the patient’s completed form to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). 4. IACERM will determine whether NYU Langone Health will accommodate the patient’s request. IACERM will notify the patient of his or her decision in writing as soon as possible but no later than 30 days from the receipt of the request. 5. The alternative communication method or location must be documented in the patient’s medical record as appropriate. 6. Before communicating with a patient, Workforce Members must review the patient’s medical record to determine if an alternative communication method or location is in place. 7. If the patient requests email communication, all such email communications may only be sent using a NYU Langone Health approved encryption method, such as SendSafe Secure Email. Related Documents Disclosure of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Patient Request for Confidential Communications of Protected Health Information form Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.522(b) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Safeguarding PHI Policy NYU Langone Health will use reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to limit intentional or unintentional Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health will also use these safeguards to protect against the inadvertent Disclosure of PHI to persons other than the intended recipient. Workforce Members will only access PHI when there is a legitimate clinical, billing, or business reason to do so. NYU Langone Health will monitor all information systems, networks, hardware, and NYU Langone Health work sites to ensure compliance with this Policy. Procedures Administrative, technical, and physical safeguards include but are not limited to the following procedures: 1. All Workforce Members are required to read and sign the Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Statement. This form will be retained in the individual’s Human Resources file or where otherwise applicable. 2. Protecting Oral PHI: • Conversations in which PHI is discussed should be made, to the extent possible, in a manner and location that protects the confidentiality of the information discussed. • Conversations with patients or a patient’s family members in public areas should be conducted in a lowered voice, to the extent possible, so that unauthorized individuals cannot overhear the discussion. In emergency situations or where a patient is hearing impaired, take reasonable precautions to limit discussion of PHI. • Avoid using PHI in conversations in public areas, such as hallways or elevators. 3. Protecting Electronic PHI: • Store all PHI, Personally Identifiable Information (“PII”), and NYU Langone Health data on the network drive unless absolutely necessary to perform your job duties. If data must be stored on a portable device, that device must be encrypted (e.g., Iron Key). Page 2 of 3 • Emails containing PHI, PII, or other sensitive data to all non NYU Langone Health domain recipients (i.e., non @nyulangone.org or @med.nyu.edu) must be sent using NYU Langone Health’s secure, encrypted email, SendSafe. • If it is necessary to email PHI, only include the minimum amount of PHI necessary. Only send to the minimum number of recipients necessary, or those who ‘need to know’ to perform their jobs. • All laptops and portable devices, used to store NYU Langone Health data, must be encrypted. • Do not store any NYU Langone Health data, including PHI or employee information, on an unencrypted USB or external drive. The use of unencrypted USBs or external drives to store NYU Langone Health data will result in disciplinary action. If necessary to perform your job duties, encrypted Iron Key USB drives are available from Medical Center Information Technology (“MCIT”) by submitting a ticket to the MCIT Service Catalog. • PHI or PII may not be sent via text messaging (SMS), even if utilizing an MCIT managed device. SMS text messages are not secure. Other secure messaging systems may be available. Consult with the Privacy Officer and MCIT Security as necessary. 4. Protecting Written PHI: • All documents that contain PHI will be stored and maintained in a manner that minimizes the potential for incidental Use or Disclosure. Lock drawers and offices when possible. • Always double check, using double identifiers, to ensure that the correct paper document(s) is handed to the correct recipient. • All documents containing PHI will be properly disposed of, in compliance with all NYU Langone Health document retention and disposal policies. 5. NYU Langone Health will identify Workforce Members who need access to PHI to carry out their duties. When possible, restrictions to access only the minimum necessary amount of PHI to perform one’s duties are used. 6. All Workforce Members are responsible for entries and queries under their unique user identity (e.g., Kerberos ID). Users must not share their IDs and password. 7. Workforce Members must log out of databases or electronic health record systems before stepping away or leaving a work station to prevent inappropriate access to patient information. 8. Access to areas that contain PHI are monitored and controlled to the extent reasonably possible (e.g., lock doors and file cabinets). 9. All Workforce Members will follow NYU Langone Health policies on proper destruction and disposal of PHI. Do not discard or reprovision any device containing PHI without first assuring the PHI has been removed or obliterated by MCIT. Consult MCIT for proper disposal of electronic devices. Page 3 of 3 10. Measures to ensure that PHI is adequately shielded to prevent unauthorized Disclosures will be used (e.g., privacy screens on computers in public areas). Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Medical Center Information Technology Security Policies Medical Center Information Technology Workforce Members IT Policy Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Statement Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(c) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


RETURN SERVICE REQUESTED Please check box if below address is incorrect or insurance information has changed and indicate changes on reverse side.REMIT TO:PATIENT NAMESTREET ADDRESSCITY, ST ZIPNEW YORK UNIVERSITYPHYSICIAN SERVICESP.O. BOX 415662BOSTON, MA 02241STATEMENT DATE 11/02/16PATIENT NAMEFIRST LASTACCOUNT #XXXXTOTAL BALANCE$129.46PAY THIS AMOUNT$129.46AMOUNT PAID$PLEASE DETACH AND RETURN TOP PORTION WITH YOUR PAYMENT.STATEMENT SUMMARYAMOUNTBILLEDYOUR INSURANCE PLAN PAIDDISCOUNTSAPPLIEDYOUR PATIENTRESPONSIBILITYYOU ALREADY PAIDYOUR TOTALBALANCEAMOUNTDUE$420.00$0.00$290.54$129.46$0.00$129.46$129.46To pay by credit card or contact customer service please call: (877) 648 2964 or visit http://mychart.nyulmc.org.STATEMENT DETAILSServiceDateProviderDescriptionChargesCreditsInsuranceBalancePatientBalanceRADIOLOGY08/09/2016Chloe MuychouChhor, MD76641 ULTRASOUND OF ONEBREAST210.000.0064.73 YOUR INSURANCE PAID OSCAR0.00 DISCOUNTS APPLIED OSCAR YOUR DEDUCTIBLE IS: 64.73145.2708/09/2016Chloe MuychouChhor, MD76641 ULTRASOUND OF ONEBREAST210.000.0064.73 YOUR INSURANCE PAID OSCAR0.00 DISCOUNTS APPLIED OSCAR YOUR DEDUCTIBLE IS: 64.73145.27RADIOLOGY SUBTOTAL420.00290.540.00129.46YOUR TOTAL BALANCE129.46CURRENTPAST DUECREDIT BALANCETOTAL BALANCEPATIENTBALANCE$129.46$ 0.00$0.00$129.46Important Message Regarding Your AccountYou are responsible for the full balance of any out of pocket costs applied by your plan.To pay by credit card or contact customer service please call: (877) 648 2964 or visit http://mychart.nyulmc.org.PAGE 1 OF 1NEW YORK UNIVERSITYPHYSICIAN SERVICESP.O. BOX 415662BOSTON, MA 02241Amount to be PaidAddress to Mail Your CheckCheck this Box and mail back the statement with any updated informationYour Account NumberSummary of the billOur phone # and website for customer service and credit card paymentsDetails about your balances including the description of the service and reason for the bill (ex: Deductible)Credits that exist on your account and the net balance that you oweImportant messages about your account and our phone # and link to MyChartPast due balances for this statement


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Sanctions for HIPAA Violations Policy NYU Langone Health will impose appropriate sanctions against Workforce Members who violate HIPAA or NYU Langone Health’s HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. NYU Langone Health will consider all relevant factors in determining the nature and severity of the sanction, including but not limited to: • the intent of the Workforce Member, • the severity of the violation, and • whether the violation indicated a pattern or practice of improper Use or Disclosure of Protected Health Information (“PHI”). NYU Langone Health’s Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) will document all reported Incidents and any sanctions that are applied. Workforce Members may also be subject to external civil and criminal sanctions resulting from HIPAA violations. For example: • A health professional’s respective licensing board may impose additional penalties including revocation of such professional’s license, if the violation is required to be reported. • Criminal sanctions could be imposed on an individual who is convicted of a violation under false pretenses or has the intent to sell, transfer, or use PHI for commercial advantage. NYU Langone Health may also be subject to civil and criminal penalties by Federal or state government agencies. Procedure 1. Workforce Members shall report any violation of the HIPAA Rules, regulations, or NYU Langone Health’s Privacy Policies and Procedures that they become aware of to IACERM via the HIPAA Helpline by phone 1 877 PHI LOSS (1 877 744 5677) or online at https://www.incidentform.com/HIPAA.nyulmc.jsp , or to IACERM directly at 212 404 4079. 2. IACERM shall investigate the matter, determine the cause of the violation, and take the necessary steps with respect to disciplinary action in consultation with the Human Page 2 of 2 Resources/Employee and Labor Relations Department and the employee’s supervisor, to address the non compliance including: • mitigation, • a warning, • re training, • suspension, and/or • other disciplinary actions, up to and including termination. 3. Any resulting sanctions will be documented. IACERM will coordinate with the Human Resources/Employee and Labor Relations Department, as appropriate, to carry out the sanctions process. Related Documents Breach Notification Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Mitigation of HIPAA Related Incidents Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(e) 42 USC §1320d 5 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Orthopedic SurgerySecond Opinion ReportPrepared by Mehul R. Shah, MDNYU Langone OrthopedicsFor Christian JonesDecember 31, 2022Mehul R. Shah MDI specialize in sports related injuries as well as arthroscopic and reconstructive surgery of the knee, shoulder, and ankle. I also perform cartilage restoration surgery and administer platelet rich plasma (PRP) and stem cell injections.I take pride in my conservative approach to treating patients. Whenever possible, we begin with nonsurgical treatments, and proceed to surgery if necessary. My goal is to restore a patient’s function and help them return to the activities they enjoy—whether it’s throwing a football again or being able to pick up a child.My clinical research focuses on shoulder and knee injuries, cartilage restoration, and anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries.Christian is a 20 year old, Division 1 lacrosse player who six weeks ago sustained a non contact injury to his right knee during a game. He reports that he felt a “pop” in his knee and was unable to continue playing. He noticed significant swelling of his knee after the injury. He has seen another orthopedic surgeon, who, upon examination, suspected it was an ACL SpecialtiesTreatsLanguagesCredentialsAbout MeCase SummarySports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic SurgeryAdultsEnglishPositionsAssistant Professor, Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Chief, Sports Medicine Service, Bellevue HospitalBoard CertificationsAmerican Board of Orthopedic Surgery Orthopedic Surgery, 2009Education and TrainingFellowship, Lenox Hill Hospital, Sports Medicine, 2007Residency, New York University, Orthopedic Surgery, 2006MD from Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 2001Doctor and Patient ProfilesAgeSex20MaleChristian Jones2tear. An MRI of the knee was performed, which showed an isolated, complete ACL rupture without associated injuries to the menisci, cartilage, or other ligaments. He was advised to undergo ACL reconstruction and is seeking a second opinion. Your Questions Our AnswersQ1Q2Is surgery for my ACL necessary?The ACL or “Anterior Cruciate Ligament” is the main stabilizer of the knee. When one ruptures one’s ACL, the knee commonly becomes more lax, and the patient may notice it giving way or instability of the knee with cutting or pivoting maneuvers. Additionally, when a knee is ACL deficient, more stresses are placed on the menisci and articular cartilage and may lead to damage to those structures. ACL reconstruction is what we describe as “elective” surgery. One does not need an ACL to walk, ride a bicycle, or, in many cases, jog in a straight line. However, young, active patients who want to return to cutting/pivoting sports such as lacrosse, basketball, soccer, etc., will likely require ACL reconstruction to do so. Less active patients may be able to cope or modify their activities to compensate for a lack of an ACL. They may be treated with PT and/or bracing to to help them return to their activities.How soon does surgery need to be performed? Can I wait to have surgery until a more convenient time?As you already know, when one tears one’s ACL, it is painful, stiff, and swollen for some time. It is important to bring the swelling down and regain range of motion before proceeding Q34Second Opinion for Christian JonesI have read in the news that ACL repair is an option. Would you recommend ACL repair over reconstruction for me? Recently, techniques have been developed to attempt to repair the ACL in certain circumstances. As technology and techniques evolve, this may be an exciting option in the future. However, ACL reconstruction currently remains the gold standard and is what I would recommend in your case. with surgery. Though there are special circumstances that require urgent surgery, evidence shows that if ACL reconstruction is done too early, one is more prone to developing stiffness or arthrofibrosis after surgery.There is some evidence to suggest that in young, active patients, delaying surgery more than several weeks may put the knee at risk for meniscus injury. As the menisci are the shock absorbers of the knee, their integrity is important for the overall longevity of your knee. Q4When can I anticipate returning to sports?The exact return to sports timeline may depend on graft choice and any additional repairs made to the meniscus or articular cartilage during your surgery. As well, the decision to return to sports depends on your progress through physical therapy and the time it takes you to regain your strength and range of motion. Assuming you undergo an isolated ACL reconstruction using autograft (your own tissue), typically you are cleared to return to cutting and pivoting sports after 9 months. #1 Hospital in New YorkThank you for choosing NYU Langone Health.At NYU Langone, our experts treat patients from all over the United States and abroad. If you want to schedule a visit with your second opinion doctor or any of our other orthopedic surgery physicians, please visitnyulangone.org/orthopedics


Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email RecipientsRegistration Process Step 1: Upon receipt of your first encrypted email, you will receive an email notification alerting you to a secure message in your personal email inbox.Step 2: Click on the link contained in the email prompting you to register in the MCIT approved SendSafe email messaging system. Page 1 of 3Step 3: Next, you will be prompted to create a passphrase. Afterwards, click “Continue” to proceed.Note: You must create a unique passphrase for the SendSafe messaging system. It should be different than the password used to access NYU Langone Health's network. Step 4: The default delivery option “SendSafe Secure Web Email” is selected, which allows you to receive the message in traditional email format. Click “Choose Option” to proceed. The “SendSafe Secure PDF Email” delivery option is an advanced feature. Page 2 of 3Page 3 of 3Prior to selecting your delivery option, please review the detailed instructions below:


Page 1 of 3 Frequently Asked Questions for NYU Langone Health SendSafe Email Recipients 1. How do I register with SendSafe to receive encrypted email? Upon receipt of your first encrypted email from NYU Langone Health sender, you will receive an email notification with a link directing you to register with SendSafe. The one time registration process requires you to create a passphrase* and to choose a delivery option. All future email deliveries will be dependent on your delivery option choice. Afterwards, you will automatically be taken to your SendSafe inbox. *Recipients must create a unique passphrase for the SendSafe email and messaging system. The passphrase should be different form the passphrase used to access NYU Langone Health’s network. 2. What should I do if I have difficulty registering for or accessing SendSafe? First, make sure you have carefully followed all the steps in the “Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients” found on our public website at https://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/sendsafe email. If the problem persists, you should contact your email sender who will assist with troubleshooting your issue with our Medical Center Information Technology Department. 3. What is the difference between "Web Email" and "PDF Email" delivery options? If you choose the default "SendSafe Secure Web Email" delivery option, you will receive an email notification in your personal email inbox that an encrypted email is waiting for you in your SendSafe inbox. The notification provides a link that directs you to the SendSafe log on page. After logging on, you are able to access, read, and reply to the email securely. This option is supported on desktops, laptops, and mobile devices. If you choose the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option *, you will receive email with an encrypted PDF. When downloading the PDF, you will be required to enter your SendSafe passphrase. After the download, you are able to access, read, and reply from your personal email. This option works on desktop and laptop computers, as well as mobile devices with Adobe Reader X or later version. The free download is available at http://adobe.com/reader. This delivery option is tested to work on the iPhone and iPad. For more detailed instructions on using this feature, please refer to the Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients found on our public website at https://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/sendsafe email. *Reminder: When using the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option, changing your passphrase will require you to remember your old passphrase for all prior encrypted PDFs. 4. How do I change delivery options? Visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox with your email address and passphrase. Click the "Settings" button located at the upper right hand corner of you screen. This will direct you to the delivery options page where you are able to choose between "SendSafe Secure Web Email" or "SendSafe Secure PDF Attachment." Page 2 of 3 5. What should I do if I forgot my passphrase? You cannot retrieve a forgotten passphrase, but you are able to reset your passphrase. For both delivery options, visit the SendSafe log on page at https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and click on "I lost my passphrase" to reset your passphrase. After resetting your passphrase, you will be taken to your SendSafe inbox, where you are able to access your emails. All future email deliveries will be dependent on your previously selected delivery option choice. 6. After clicking on "I lost my passphrase," I am directed to the login page. What should I do? Close your browser and click, "I lost my passphrase." This will take you to the passphrase reset page. 7. How do I change my passphrase? Visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox. Click "Settings" located on the upper right hand corner of the screen and you will be directed to the delivery options page. The link "Change My passphrase" is available at the bottom of the page. *Reminder: When using the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option, changing your passphrase will require you to remember your old passphrase for all prior encrypted PDFs. 8. I reset my passphrase and now I cannot open prior PDFs. What should I do? You must remember your passphrase to open encrypted PDFs. Encrypted PDFs can only be opened with the original passphrase, i.e., the passphrase used before resetting it. It is likely that you have forgotten your old passphrase but to access encrypted PDF content, visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox. A copy of the PDF is accessible from your SendSafe inbox for 30 days from the date of receipt. 9. How long are emails and copies of emails retained in the SendSafe inbox? Emails will expire and be deleted from your SendSafe inbox 30 days from the date of receipt. The SendSafe inbox is not a repository; therefore, if you need a record of the email, you must take action prior to the 30 days. 10. I tried to send a message using SendSafe Secure Web Email and this error appeared: "The following addresses were not in the original receipt list and are not managed by the SendSafe Secure Email Message Center Server." If you are replying to a message, you can only send it to people who were on the original message's recipient list. If you are writing a new message, you can only send messages to people with NYU Langone Health email addresses. 11. I tried to log on to SendSafe but received this error message, "Authentication Failure." What should I do? Two versions of this error message may display. 1) "Authentication Failure, the credentials that you have supplied are incorrect. Please try again." This message will display if you mistyped your email address or passphrase. If you are Page 3 of 3 certain that your email address and passphrase are correct, close all open browsers and try again. 2) "Authentication Failure, a Web Messenger session has already been opened for this account from the address: 12.3456.67.89. Please log out of the other session and try again." This message will display if multiple sessions are open or multiple users are trying to log on to the same account at the same time. Only one session is able to be open and one user is able to access an account at any given time. 12. What is the SendSafe mailbox size? The SendSafe mailbox size is 250 MB. 13. I'm trying to send or read a message in SendSafe, and I have received this error message: "??? message.not.available.header ???" What should I do? This message is caused by one of the following scenarios: 1) A NYU Langone Health user is sending an encrypted email with the recipient's email address in all CAPS. In this case, close your browser, and login directly to the SendSafe system at https://sendsafe.nyumc.org/b/l.e using your email address and passphrase. Do not try clicking on the Compose button in your Outlook email, as this will cause a second error message. In the SendSafe system, resend your email message using all lowercase letters for your email recipients. 2) An external user is accessing SendSafe using Internet Explorer (IE)10. Due to a recent Microsoft update that causes issues with certain web applications, reading a SendSafe email in IE10 will cause this error. To verify which version of IE you're using, click on the word "Help" in your Internet Explorer toolbar, then select "About Internet Explorer" from the drop down menu. A pop up screen will appear, indicating the version of IE on your computer. To read your SendSafe email, close your IE10 browser, and open another browser such as Firefox or Chrome to access your SendSafe email.


Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Sensitive PHI Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of its patients’ Protected Health Information (“PHI”). This includes extra protection for sensitive health information, including: Confidential HIV Related Information, Psychotherapy Notes, alcohol and substance abuse treatment information, and genetic information. In most circumstances other than for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operation purposes, a patient’s written Authorization is required before Disclosing these types of sensitive PHI. Use and Disclosure is permitted whenever a proper Authorization is signed. However, there are exceptions for when sensitive PHI may be Used and Disclosed without an Authorization. 1. Confidential HIV Related Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization, including but not limited to, the following circumstances: • to provide a patient with direct care or treatment, • to process billing or reimbursement records, including third party payors, • to monitor or evaluate the quality of care, • to another health facility or provider that requires the information in order to provide appropriate care or treatment to the patient, • to the patient’s Personal Representative or someone who is legally authorized to consent for the patient, when the patient lacks capacity, and the information is relevant to that person fulfilling such a health care decision making role, • to an organization that procures body parts for transplantation, medical education, therapy, or research, • when required by law or court order, including to a health officer, • for certain public health purposes, and • to an employee or agent of a correctional facility. Disclosures, except as listed below, of Confidential HIV Related Information must be accompanied by a statement prohibiting the redisclosure of such information. Exceptions include Disclosures to (i) the patient, (ii) by a physician to a public health officer, or (iii) by a physician to a person authorized to consent to health care for a patient. Page 2 of 4 All Disclosures of Confidential HIV Related Information must include a notation in the medical record, except for the following: • only initial Disclosures to insurance institutions must be noted, • Disclosures to NYU Langone Health Workforce Members as permitted, and • Disclosures to persons engaged in quality assurance, program monitoring or evaluation, or for governmental payment agents acting pursuant to contract or law. 2. Psychotherapy Notes Psychotherapy Notes are distinguished from other mental health records. Use and Disclosure of Psychotherapy Notes are permitted without Authorization, in the following circumstances: • for Use by the originator of the note for treatment, • to share with students, trainees, or practitioners in mental health who are learning under the supervision of notes’ author, to practice or improve their skills in a group, joint, family, or individual counseling, • to medical examiners and coroners, if necessary to determine cause of death, • to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, if the agency requests them in order to investigate compliance with privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations, • to defend the notes’ author, NYU Langone Health, or affiliate in a legal proceeding, initiated by the patient, • as required by law and limited to the relevant requirements of such law, and • to avert a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of the patient or another person. In general, a patient does not have a right of access to inspect and obtain a copy of Psychotherapy Notes. See Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI policy for additional information. 3. Alcohol and Substance Abuse Treatment Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization in the following circumstances: • within NYU Langone Health, to provide a patient with diagnosis, Treatment, or referral for alcohol or substance abuse Treatment, • within NYU Langone Health to process billing or reimbursement records, • to monitor or evaluate the quality of care provided, • when required by a court order, and • in a medical emergency, to medical personnel. Unlike Confidential HIV Related Information, Disclosure is NOT permitted to a third party payor until a proper Authorization is signed for alcohol and substance abuse treatment information. 4. Genetic Information Use and Disclosure is only permitted in the following circumstances: • for providing Treatment, • pursuant to a valid Authorization, and • if required by law, including but not limited to: Page 3 of 4  to establish parentage,  to determine metabolic disorders in a newborn,  to furnish information related to a decedent to the blood relatives for the purpose of medical diagnosis,  in connection with a criminal investigation or prosecution,  for identifying the individual or human remains, or  if otherwise required by a specific state or federal court order. 5. Reproductive Health Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization in the following circumstances: • to provide a patient with direct care or treatment, • to process billing or reimbursement records, including third party payors, • to another health facility or provider that requires the information in order to provide appropriate care or treatment to the patient, • to the patient’s Personal Representative or someone who is legally authorized to consent for the patient, when the patient lacks capacity, and the information is relevant to that person fulfilling such a health care decision making role, Unlike Confidential HIV Related Information, Disclosure is NOT permitted for the following purposes until a signed HIPAA Reproductive Health Attestation is received from the requestor stating that the use or disclosure is not for a prohibited purpose. • Health Oversight Activities (this includes providing information to entities who request PHI to ensure compliance with applicable regulations), • Judicial and Administrative Proceedings (e.g. in response to an order of a court or administrative tribunal, subpoena, discovery request, or other lawful process), • Law Enforcement Purposes (e.g. a request from law enforcement for PHI), • Disclosures to coroners and medical examiners. All other Uses and Disclosures of these types of Sensitive PHI must be made only pursuant to a valid Authorization. Related Documents General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Uses and Disclosures of PHI Requiring Patient Authorization HIPAA Reproductive Health Attestation Legal Reference Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) New York State Public Health Law §18 Page 4 of 4 New York State Mental Hygiene Law §33.16 New York Public Health Law §2782 45 C.F.R.§164.508 45 C.F.R.§164.524 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


The Spiritual Care Team at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island is intentional in creating an atmosphere of warmth, hospitality, and respect. Our aim is to care for you as a whole person ? mind, body, and spirit. We make every effort to provide you and your family with the support you need during your stay with us. Our ultimate goal is to immerse your patient experience with affirmation and hope. ZOur Spiritual Care TeamNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care We have a team of chaplains, priests, rabbis, imams, volunteers, and community clergy from many faith traditions who offer emotional and spiritual support 24 hours a day, seven days a week.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care DirectorThe Reverend Karen JonesRev. Jones has led NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island?s spiritual care team since 2011, and is ordained and endorsed by American Baptist Churches USA. She received her master?s degree in Christian education with an emphasis in pastoral care and family ministry from Scarritt Graduate School in Tennessee, and her master?s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Rev. Jones completed her clinical chaplaincy training at Beth Israel Medical Center and a year of residency at New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital, where she was also a staff chaplain. She previously worked as director of field education at Union Theological Seminary and served as a pastor of congregational care. Rev. Jones is a member of the Association of Professional Chaplains and the Spiritual Care Association.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care Staff ChaplainsSister Mary C. ChikezieStaff ChaplainSister Chikezie is a Roman Catholic nun in the Daughters of Mary Mother of Mercy congregation and a board certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master?s degree in philosophy from St. Thomas Aquinas University in Italy and moved to the United States in 2006. Sister Chikezie completed her clinical pastoral education residency at Valley Baptist Hospital in Texas. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, she worked as an instructor at St. Joseph and St. Peter Seminary in Texas, and served as chaplain at Rio Grande Hospital in Colorado, and staff chaplain at Mercy Hospital in Texas.The Reverend Jayan DanielStaff Chaplain Rev. Daniel received his master?s degree in arts from Madras University and his master?s degree in divinity from Church on the Rock Theological Seminary, both located in India. He was introduced to chaplaincy in the United States, and completed his clinical chaplaincy training at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island and a year of residency with Eger Lutheran Homes and Services in Staten Island, New York. Rev. Daniel currently serves as pastor at Living Water Church in Bellerose, New York.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care Gareth BryantAssociate Chaplain and ImamGareth Bryant has been a chaplain and imam since 2014. He received his bachelor?s degree in political science from Touro College. Chaplain Bryant completed his clinical pastoral education training at the College of Pastoral Supervision and Psychotherapy in Manhattan and his chaplaincy residency at St. John?s Episcopal Hospital in Queens.The Reverend Brenda Denise FordAssociate Chaplain Rev. Ford received her master?s degree in community health administration from Long Island University and her master?s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Rev. Ford served as chaplain at Stony Brook Medicine, where she completed her clinical chaplaincy training. She also served as chaplain at Nassau County Correctional Center, Northwell Health, and the First Episcopal District Annual Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in Smithtown, New York. Rev. Ford is currently the protestant spiritual life chaplain Health Ministries Association, and director at Stony Brook University and is a member of the Association of Professional Chaplains, the Association for Chaplaincy and Spiritual Life in Higher Education, the American College Health Association.Sangeeta GnanaseelanDepartment Secretary Before relocating to the United States from India, Ms. Gnanaseelan worked in the hospitality industry. She received a bachelor?s degree in hotel management and Microsoft certifications from the National Institute of Information Technology in India. Ms. Gnanaseelan was led to NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island by her enthusiasm for supporting spiritual care and education in our community. She provides administrative support to our department, and is the liaison between the spiritual care team and hospital leadership.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care The Reverend Damian UmeokekeRoman Catholic Priest Father Umeokeke is ordained by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi in Nigeria. He received his master?s degree in pastoral theology from St. John?s University in New York, and completed his chaplaincy training at NYC Health + Hospitals/ Queens and Beth Israel Medical Center in New York. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Father Umeokeke served as pastor at Beth Israel Medical Center and Elliot Hospital in New Hampshire. He serves NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre.Father Yesudas EliasRoman Catholic PriestFather Yesudas Elias is a Roman Catholic priest who belongs to the member of the ?Order of the Imitation of Christ?, also known as Bethany Congregation, India. He received his Master of Philosophy degree in History and Master of Arts degrees in Psychology and Education from Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, India. His journey in pastoral care began with studies intheology and philosophy at Jnana Deepa Vidyapeeth Papel seminary, Pune, India, where he honed his understanding of spiritual principles and pastoral practices. With a strong background in Psychology, he approaches his work with a comprehensive understanding of human and emotional well being. He has completed his clinical pastoral education at Rockville Health Center, New York. He serves NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care RabbiRabbi Anchelle PerlHospital RabbiRabbi Perl has been the spiritual leader of Congregation Beth Sholom Chabad Mineola since 1990 and director of the National Committee for Furtherance of Jewish Education on Long Island since 1974. He is also a chaplain at the Nassau County Correctional Center in East Meadow, New York, and host of ?Jewish Talk,? a weekly radio program and podcast on 90.3 FM WHPC. Rabbi Perl joined the spiritual care team at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island in 1990, and focuses on the spiritual needs of patients and their families and the entire staff.


NYU Langone Orthopedic Center333 East 38th Street, 5th FloorNew York, NY 10016Contact Us Call us at 646 501 7109 or email sportsperformancecenter@nyulangone.org to schedule an appointment.Upper Extremity Return to Sports Evaluationat NYU Langone healthSports Performance CenterCustomized ProgramThis comprehensive evaluation includes the following assessments:•WRIST, ELBOW AND SHOULDER MOBILITY •DYNAMIC STABILITY•UPPER BODY STRENGTH•FUNCTIONAL PERFORMANCEPersonalized Final ReportYou receive a 30 minute review of any deficits and a periodized exercise program tailored to your needs. We share our findings with your physician to help them determine your readiness to return to sports.Our TeamOur clinicians possess advanced degrees, specialty certifications, and unique expertise in upper extremity sports injuries and return to sports. Team member certifications include:•Board Certified Specialist in Sports Physical Therapy (SCS)• Board Certified Specialist in Orthopaedic Physical Therapy (OCS)• Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologist (RCEP)• Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS)• Specialized Occupational TherapistsReturn to Sports Evaluation After Upper Extremity Injury Designed to advise recreational and competitive athletes if they are ready to return to sports following their completion of rehab for an upper extremity injury.


Statement of Patient and Visitor Responsibilities• English• Arabic (العربية)• Bengali (বাংđংলাা)• Chinese Traditional (中文)• Creole (kreol)• Greek (ελληνικά)• Italian (Italiano)• Korean (한국의)• Polish (Polski)• Portuguese (Português)• Russian (Русский)• Spanish (Español)Statement of Patient ResponsibilitiesAt NYU Langone Health, your safety and care are our top priorities. We are committed to partnering with you to create a safe, respectful and healing environment. This Statement of Patient Responsibilities, along with the Patient’s Bill of Rights, provides a guideline for your participation in your health care and our expectations on responsible behavior from patients, families and other visitors to help build a good relationship between patients and staff.It is your responsibility to:1.Provide, to the best of your knowledge, complete and accurate information about your present complaints, past illnesses, hospitalization, medications, allergies and other health related matters2. Work with your health care team to develop a treatment plan meets your needs and follow their recommendations •Try to answer questions asked by your health care team•Ask questions•Tell your health care team if there is anything you don’t understand or don’t agree with•Follow your treatment plan. This is important when you are in the hospital and after you leave3.Soon after your admission to the hospital, begin participating with your care team in creating a discharge plan that meets your medical and social needs (i.e. what care you will need after your discharge)4. Tell your health care team about any advance directives you have (health care proxy, living will, medical power of attorney). If possible, provide copies of any advance directives at the time of your admission5. Provide us with your insurance coverage and other sources of payment. Please tell us if you have a named a financial power of attorney6. Respect and follow the rules, regulations and policies of the hospital7.Perform hand hygiene (i.e. wash hands, use hand sanitizer) 8. Treat other patients, visitors and staff with respect and consideration by helping support a diverse and inclusive environment9. Respect the privacy rights of staff and other patients •You are not permitted to use your cameras, tablets, telephones or other equipment to take pictures, livestream or make recordings (audio or video) of any medical service or care you receive without our staff’s permission. •You are only permitted to photograph or record a patient alone or with their own visitors and family members. 10. Not bring any valuables to the hospital or send them home upon admission. We are not responsible for your belongings. If you are unable to send your valuables home, please speak with a staff member to secure them.11. Respect property belonging to other people and the hospital12. Keep the noise level low to support restful healing13. Behave in ways that are considerate of others and do not put them at risk. This includes:•DO NOT drink alcohol, use tobacco products or recreational drugs•DO NOT display racist or discriminatory behaviors•DO NOT be aggressive or violent•DO NOT scream, use profanity or other offensive languageNYU Langone Health does not tolerate the verbal or physical abuse of our staff. The inability to comply with these responsibilities may result in removal from the facility and/or an administrative dischargeStatement of Visitor ResponsibilitiesAt NYU Langone Health, we recognize the role families, support persons and other visitors play in the healing process, and we ask you to collaborate with us in delivering an environment that is safe, respectful and conducive to healing. Visitor Responsibilities:1.Review and adhere to NYU Langone Health’s visitor guidelines 2. Do not visit if you are sick 3. Check in prior to entry and wear a visitor badge at all times4. Perform hand hygiene (i.e. wash hands, use hand sanitizer) upon arrival and when leaving the patient’s room5.Follow isolation precautions posted on the patient’s door6. Support rest and recovery of our patients by speaking quietly7.Check with patient’s nurse prior to bringing in any items to the patient, including food and beverage8. To the extent possible, remain in the patient’s room 9. Do not touch patient equipment10. Do not administer medication or perform patient care11. Look after your personal property. NYU Langone Health is not responsible for lost or misplaced items12. Please do not take pictures of patients, staff or equipment. Livestreaming or recording (audio or video) of any medical service or care is not allowed13. Alcohol, recreational drugs, tobacco or weapons are not permitted inside any NYU Langone Health facility14. Refrain from using profanity or threatening language or behaviorNYU Langone Health does not tolerate the verbal or physical abuse of staff. Any visitor who interferes with the care of patients, or whose behaviors or actions are deemed a threat to patient or staff safety, may be asked to leave and visitation rights may be restricted or suspended. بيان مسؤوليات المريض فيNYU Langone Health، سالمتك ورعايتك على رأس أولوياتنا . نحن ملتزمون بالتعاون معك لخلق بيئة آمنةوتتسم باالحترام وتساعد على الشفاء . يوفر بيان ،مسؤوليات المريض هذا إلى جانب ميثاق حقوق المريض، إرشادات بشأن مشاركتك في الرعاية الصحية الخاصة بك وتوقعاتنا بشأن السلوك المسؤول من المرضىوالعائالت والزوار اآلخرين للمساعدة في بناء عالقة جيدة بين المرضى وفريق العاملين. يقع على عاتقك مسؤولية ما يلي: 1. تقديم معلومات كاملة ودقيقة ،،على حد علمك ،حول كل ما تشكو منه حاليًا ،واألمراض السابقةواإلقامة في المستشفى، واألدوية، و حاالت ،الحساسيةوالمسائل الصحية األخرى ذات الصلة 2. التعاون مع فريق الرعاية الصحية المعني بحالتك لوضع خطة عالجيةلتلبية احتياجاتك واتباع التوصيات • محاولة اإلجابة عناألسئلة التي يطرحها عليك فريق رعايتك الصحية • طرحاألسئلة • إبالغ فريق الرعاية الصحية المعني بحالتك إذا كان هناك أي شيء التفهمه أو ال توافق عليه • اتباع خطتك العالجية .هذا أمر مهمعند وجودك في المستشفىبعد و مغادرتك إياها 3. ،بعد وقت قصير من دخولك المستشفىالبدء في المشاركة مع فريق رعايتك في وضع خطة خروج تلبي احتياجاتك الطبية واالجتماعية( أي الرعاية التي سوفتحتاج إليها بعد خروجك من المستشفى) 4. إبالغ فريق الرعاية الصحية المعني بحالتك عن أي توجيهات مسبقة لديك( وكيل الرعاية الصحية، وصيةالحياة، التوكيل الطبي .) إن أمكن، تقديمنسخ من أي توجيهات مسبقة عند دخولك المستشفى 5. تزويدنا بالتغطية التأمينية ومصادر الدفع األخرى لديك . يرجى إبالغنا إذا كنت قد حددت ًموكال ماليًا بعينه 6. احترام قواعد المستشفى وسياساتها ولوائحها، واتباعها 7. الحفاظ على نظافة اليدين(أي غسل اليدين واستخد ام مطهرلليدين) 8. التعامل مع المرضى والزوار وفريق العاملين اآلخرين باحترام واهتمام من أجل المساعدة في تعزيزبيئة متنوعة وشاملة 9. احترام حقوق الخصوصية الخاصة بفريق العاملين والمرضى اآلخرين • ال يُسمح لك باستخدام الكاميرات أو األجهزة اللوحية أو الهواتف أو غيرها من المعدات اللتقاط الصور أو البث المباشر أو إجراء تسجيالت(صوتية أو فيديو ) ألي خدمة طبية أو رعاية تتلقاها دون تصريح من فريقالعاملين لدينا. • يُسمح لك فقط بتصوير مريض أو إجراء تسجيل له بمف رده أو مع أفرادعائلته وزواره. 10. عدم إحضار أي مقتنيات ثمينة إلى المستشفى أو إرسالها إلى المنزل بمجرددخول المستشفى .لسنا مسؤولين عن متعلقاتك الشخصية . إذا عجزت عن إرسالمقتنياتك الثمينة إلى المنزل، فيرجى التحدث مع أحد أفراد فريقالعاملين لالحتفاظ بها في مكانآمن. 11. الحفاظ على المتعلقات الشخصية لألشخاص اآلخرين والمستشفى 12. الحفاظ على انخفاض مستوى الضوضاء لدعم عملية الشفاء في أجواء مريحة 13. التصرُّف على نحوٍ يعكس مراعاة مشاعر اآلخرين وعدم تعريضهم للخطر .وهذا يتضمَّن: • عدم تناول المشروبات الكحولية، أو استخدام منتجات التبغ أو العقاقيراالستجمامية المخدرة • عدم القيام بسلوكيات عنصرية أو تمييزية • عدم التصرف بطريقة عدوانية أو عنيفة • عدم الصياح أو استخدام ألفاظ بذيئة أو غير ذلك من التعبيرات المسيئة ي ال تهاونNYU Langone Health مع اإلساءة اللفظية أو الجسدية الموجهةألعضاء فريق العاملين لدينا . وقد يؤديعدم االمتثال لهذه المسؤوليات إلى الخروج منمرفق الرعاية و/ أوإخراجك من المستشفى بموجب قرار إداري بيان مسؤوليات الزوار فيNYU Langone Health ، نحن ندرك مدى أهمية الدور الذي تقوم به العائلة واألشخاص الداعمون والزوار اآلخرون في عملية الشفاء، ونطلب منكم التعاون معنا من أجل توفير بيئة آمنة ومحترمةومناسبة للتماثل إلى الشفاء. مسؤوليات الزوار:1. مراجعة إرشادات الزوار فيNYU Langone Health واالمتثال لها2. عدم زيارة المرضى بالمستشفىفي حالة اإلصابة بالمرض 3. تسجيل الوصول قبل الدخول وارتداء شارة الزائر طوال الوقت4. الحفاظ على نظافة اليدين(أي غسل اليدين واستخدام مطهرلليدين ) عندالوصول وعند مغادرة غرفة المريض5. اتباع احتياطات العزل الملصقة على باب غرفة المريض 6. دعمراحة مرضانا وتعافيهم من خالل التحدث بصوتٍ منخفض7. سؤال الممرضة المعنية بالمريض قبل إحضار أي أغراض للمريض، بما في ذلك األطعمة والمشروبات8. البقاء في غرفة المريض إلى أقصى حد ممكن9. عدم لمس معدات المريض 10. عدم إعطاء المريض الدواء أو تقدم رعاية له 11. العناية بممتلكاتك الشخصية . ي ال تحملNYU Langone Health المسؤولية بشأن أية أغراض مفقودة أو في غير محلها12. الرجاء عدم التقاط صور للمرضى أو فريق العاملين أو المعدات . ال يُسمح بالبث المباشر أو التسجيل(الصوتي أو الفيديو )ألي خدمة أو رعاية طبية 13. ال يُسمح بتناول المشروبات الكحولية أو العقاقير االستجمامية المخدرة أو التبغ أو حيازة األسلحة داخل أي منشأة صحيةفي NYU Langone Health14. االمتناع عن اتباع سلوكيات أو توجيه ألفاظ تهديدية أو بذيئة ي ال تهاونNYU Langone Health مع اإلساءة اللفظية أو الجسدية الموجهة ألعضاء فريق العاملين . قد يُطلب من أي زائريعيق رعاية المرضى، أو تعدسلوكياته أو أفعاله مصدر خطر يهدد سالمة المريض أو فريق العاملين، المغادرة وقد يتم تقييد حقوق الزيارة الخاصة به أو تعليقها. ররোগীর দোয়িত্বগুয়ির য়িিৃয়ি NYU Langone Health এ, আপনার ননরাপত্তা ও পনরচর্যা আমাদের শীদষযর অগ্রানিকার। আমরা একটি ননরাপে, সম্মানজনক ও আরগ্যলাদের পনরদেশ তৈরী করদৈ আপনার সাদে অংশীোনরত্ব করদৈ প্রনৈশ্রুনৈেদ্ধ। ররাগ্ীর অনিকাদরর নেদলর সাদে, এই ররাগ্ীর োনিত্বগুনলর নেেৃনৈ আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসোি আপনার অংশগ্রহণ এেং ররাগ্ী ও কমীদের মদিয একটি সুসম্পকয গ্দে রৈালাি সাহার্য করদৈ ররাগ্ী, পনরোর ও অনযানয আগ্ন্তুকদের রেদক আচরদণর োনিদত্বর নেষদি আমাদের প্রৈযাশাগুনলর জনয একটি ননদেযনশকা প্রোন কদর। আপনোর দোয়িত্ব হি: 1. আপনার েৈযমান অনেদর্াগ্, অৈীদৈর অসুস্থ্ৈা, হাসপাৈাদল েনৈয হওিা, ওষুিপত্র, অযালানজয ও অনযানয স্বাস্থ্য সংক্রান্ত নেষিগুনল সম্পদকয, আপনার সদেযাত্তম জ্ঞাদন, সম্পূণয ও সঠিক ৈেয প্রোন করা 2. আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসো েদলর সাদে কাজ কদর একটি নচনকৎসা পনরকল্পনা তৈরী করা র্া আপনার চানহোগুনল পূরণ কদর এেং ৈাদের সুপানরশগুনল অনুসরণ কদর • আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসো েদলর নজজ্ঞাসা করা প্রশ্নগুনলর উত্তর রেওিার রচষ্টা করুন • প্রশ্ন নজজ্ঞাসা করুন • আপনন রকাদনানকছু না েুঝদল ো রকাদনানকছুর সাদে সম্মৈ না হদল আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসো েলদক েলুন • আপনার নচনকৎসা পনরকল্পনা অনুসরণ করুন। এটি আপনার হাসপাৈাদল োকাকালীন ও আপনন হাসপাৈাল রছদে র্াওিার পদর গুরুত্বপূণয। 3. আপনার হাসপাৈাদল েনৈয হওিার পদর শীঘ্রই, আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসো েদলর সাদে একটি নিসচাজয পনরকল্পনাি অংশগ্রহণ শুরু করা র্া আপনার নচনকৎসাগ্ৈ ও সামানজক চানহোগুনল পূরণ কদর (অেযাৎ, আপনার নিসচাদজযর পদর আপনার রকান পনরচর্যা প্রদিাজন) 4. আপনার রকাদনা অনগ্রম ননদেযনশকা (স্বাস্থ্যদসো প্রনি, জীেন্ত উইল, রমনিদকল পাওিার অফ অযাটননয) োকদল রসই সম্পদকয আপনার স্বাস্থ্যদসো েলদক েলা। সম্ভে হদল, আপনার েনৈযর সমি রকাদনা অনগ্রম ননদেযনশকার কনপ প্রোন করুন 5. আমাদের আপনার েীমার কোদরজ ও অেয প্রোদনর অনযানয উৎসগুনল প্রোন করা। অনুগ্রহ কদর আমাদের েলুন আপনার কাদছ রকাদনা আনেযক পাওিার অফ অযাটননযর নাম আদছ নকনা 6. হাসপাৈাদলর ননিম, নেিান ও নীনৈগুনলর সম্মান ও অনুসরণ করা 7. হাদৈর স্বাস্থ্যনেনি (অেযাৎ, হাৈ রিািা, হযান্ড সযাননটাইজাদরর েযেহার) সম্পন্ন করা একটি তেনচত্রযমি ও অন্তেুযনিকর পনরদেদশর সমেযদন সহািৈা কদর অনযানয ররাগ্ী, আগ্ন্তুক ও কমীদের সাদে সম্মান ও নেদেচনার সাদে আচরণ করা 8. কমী ও অনযানয ররাগ্ীদের রগ্াপনীিৈার অনিকারগুনলদক সম্মান করা • আমাদের কমীদের অনুমনৈ ছাো আপনার পাওিা রকাদনা নচনকৎসা পনরদষো ো পনরচর্যার ছনে রৈালা, সরাসনর সম্প্রচার করা ো ররকনিযং (অনিও ো নেনিও) করার জনয আপনার কযাদমরা, টযােদলট, রটনলদফান ো অনযানয সরঞ্জাম েযেহার করার অনুমনৈ আপনার রনই। • আপনার কাদছ শুিুমাত্র রকাদনা ররাগ্ীদক একা ো ৈাদের ননদজদের আগ্ন্তুক ও পনরোদরর সেসযদের সাদে ছনে রৈালা ো ররকিয করার অনুমনৈ আদছ। 9. হাসপাৈাদল রকাদনা মূলযোন নজননস না আনা ো েনৈযর পর ৈাদের োনেদৈ পাঠিদি রেওিা। আমরা আপনার নজননদসর জনয োিী নই। আপনন আপনার মূলযোন নজননসগুনল োনে পাঠাদৈ না পারদল, ৈাদের সুরনিৈ করদৈ অনুগ্রহ কদর রকাদনা কমী সেদসযর সাদে কো েলুন। 10. অনয রলাক ও হাসপাৈাদলর মানলকানািীন সম্পনত্তর সম্মান করা 11. শানন্তপূণয আদরাগ্যলােদক সমেযন করদৈ আওিাদজর মাত্রা কম রাখা 12. এমনোদে আচরণ করা র্া অনযদের প্রনৈ নেচিণ এেং ৈাদের ঝুুঁনকদৈ রফদল না। এর মদিয অন্তেুযি: • মেযপান করদেন না, ৈামাকজাৈীি পণয ো নেদনােনমূলক রনশার নজননস েযেহার করদেন না • জানৈোেী ো তেষমযমূলক আচরণ প্রেশযন করদেন না • আক্রমণাত্মক ো সনহংস হদেন না • নচৎকার করদেন না, গ্ালাগ্ানল রেদেন না ো অকেয োষাি কো েলদেন না NYU Langone Health আমোদদর কমীদদর রমৌয়িক িো শোরীয়রক অপিযিহোর সহয কদর নো। এই দোয়িত্বগুয়ি রমদন চিোর অক্ষমিোর ফদি হিদিো রকন্দ্র রেদক রির কদর রদওিো এিং/অেিো একটি প্রশোসয়নক য়িসচোর্জ করো হদি পোদর আগন্তুকদদর দোয়িত্বগুয়ির য়িিৃয়ি NYU Langone Health এ, আমরা আদরাগ্যলাদে পনরোর, সমেযনকারী েযনি ো অনযানয আগ্ন্তুকদের পালন করা েূনমকার স্বীকৃনৈ নেই, এেং আমরা আপনাদক এমন এক পনরদেশ প্রোন করাি আমাদের সাদে সহদর্ানগ্ৈা করার অনুদরাি কনর র্া ননরাপে, সম্মানজনক ও আদরাগ্যলাদে সহািক। আগন্তুকদদর দোয়িত্বগুয়ি: 1. NYU Langone Health এর আগ্ন্তুকদের ননদেযনশকা পর্যাদলাচনা করুন ও রমদন চলুন 2. আপনন অসুস্থ্ হদল রেখা করদৈ আসদেন না 3. প্রদেদশর আদগ্ রচক ইন করুন এেং সেসমি একটি আগ্ন্তুদকর েযাজ পদর োকুন 4. আসার পদর ও ররাগ্ীর কি রেদক রেদরাদনার সমি হাদৈর স্বাস্থ্যনেনি (অেযাৎ, হাৈ রিািা, হযান্ড সযাননটাইজাদরর েযেহার) সম্পন্ন করুন 5. ররাগ্ীর েরজাি আটকাদনা পৃেকীকরদণর সােিানৈাগুনল অনুসরণ করুন 6. ননচু স্বদর কো েদল আমাদের ররাগ্ীদের নেশ্রাম ও আদরাগ্যলােদক সমেযন করুন 7. খাোর ও পানীি সহ, ররাগ্ীর কাদছ রকাদনা নজননস ননদি আসার আদগ্ ররাগ্ীর নাদসযর সাদে রচক কদর ননন 8. র্ৈেূর সম্ভে, ররাগ্ীর কদিই োকুন 9. ররাগ্ীর সরঞ্জামগুনলদক রছাুঁদেন না 10. ওষুি প্রদিাগ্ করদেন না ো ররাগ্ীর পনরচর্যা সম্পন্ন করদেন না 11. আপনার েযনিগ্ৈ সম্পনত্তর উপর নজর রাখুন। NYU Langone Health হানরদি র্াওিা ো অনযত্র রাখা নজননদসর জনয োিী নি 12. অনুগ্রহ কদর ররাগ্ী, কমী ো সরঞ্জাদমর ছনে ৈুলদেন না। রর্দকাদনা নচনকৎসাগ্ৈ পনরদষো ো পনরচর্যার লাইেনিম করা ো ররকিয (অনিও ো নেনিও) করার অনুমনৈ রনই 13. রর্দকাদনা NYU Langone Health রকদের নেৈদর অযালদকাহল, নেদনােনমূলক রনশার নজননস, ৈামাক ো হানৈিাদরর অনুমনৈ রনই 14. গ্ানলগ্ালাজ করা ো হুমনক রেওিার োষা েযেহার করা ো আচরণ করার রেদক নেরৈ োকুন NYU Langone Health কমীদদর রমৌয়িক িো শোরীয়রক অপিযিহোর সহয কদর নো। রকোদনো আগন্তুক য়িয়ন ররোগীর পয়রচিজোি হস্তদক্ষপ কদরন, িো িোর আচরণ িো কোিজকিোপ ররোগী িো কমীর য়নরোপত্তোর র্নয হুময়কমূিক িদি মদন করো হি, িোদক হিদিো চদি রিদি িিো হদি পোদর এিং রদিো করোর অয়িকোর হিদিো য়নয়িদ্ধ িো সোসদপন্ড করো হদি পোদর। 患者責任聲明 NYU Langone Health 始終將您的安全與照護放在第一位。我們致力與您合作，創造一個安全、尊重人和治癒的環境。本患者責任聲明連同《患者權利清單》(The Patient's Bill of Rights) 為您參與健康護理提供指南，以及我們對患者、家屬和其他訪客負責任行為的期望，以幫助患者與工作人員建立良好的關係。 您有責任： 1. 盡您所知，針對關於目前疾病、過去疾病、住院、藥物、過敏和與健康相關的其他事項提供完整且準確的資訊 2. 與您的健康護理團隊合作來編列一個符合您需要的治療計畫並遵循其建議 • 儘量回答健康護理團隊提出的問題 • 提出問題 • 告訴您的健康護理團隊任何您不瞭解或不同意之處 • 遵循您的治療計畫。這在您住院時和出院後都是非常重要的 3. 在您入院後不久，開始與您的護理團隊一起制定符合您醫療和社交需求的出院計畫（即出院後您需要什麼照護） 4. 告知您的健康護理團隊關於您預設醫療指示（醫療護理委託書、生前遺囑、醫療決定授權代理）。如果有可能的話，在您入院時提供任何預設醫療指示的副本 5. 向我們提供您的醫療保險承保範圍及其他費用來源。如果您有指定的財務授權代理，請告知我們 6. 尊重並遵循醫院規則、規定及政策 7. 進行手部清潔（即洗手、使用洗手液） 8. 幫助支援多元化和包容的環境，從而尊重和善待其他患者、訪客和工作人員 9. 尊重工作人員和其他患者的隱私權 • 未經我們工作人員的許可，您不得使用相機、平板電腦、電話或其他設備對您接受的任何醫療服務或照護進行拍照、直播或錄製（音訊或視訊）。 • 您只能拍攝或記錄患者自己或患者與其訪客和家屬在一起的場景。 10. 入院時不要攜帶貴重物品或將其送回家。我們不負責保管您的個人物品。如果您無法將貴重物品送回家，請與工作人員溝通以確保其安全。 11. 尊重屬於他人及醫院的財產 12. 降低說話音量以協助醫院患者在康復過程中能夠獲得充分休息 13. 在行為舉止表現上為他人著想，不要置他人於險境其中包括： • 不要飲酒、使用菸草製品或毒品 • 不要表現出種族主義或歧視行為 • 不要有咄咄逼人或是暴力的行為 • 不要尖叫、罵髒話或使用其他攻擊性語言 NYU Langone Health 不容忍對工作人員的言語或身體虐待。無法履行這些責任可能會被請出本機構和/或被行政部門要求出院 訪客責任聲明 NYU Langone Health 瞭解家庭、支援人員和其他訪客在患者康復過程中的重要性，我們希望您與我們合作，提供一個安全、尊重人和有利於康復的環境。 訪客責任： 1. 查看並遵守 NYU Langone Health 的訪客準則 2. 如果您生病了，不要來探視 3. 進入機構前先登記並始終佩戴訪客徽章 4. 在到達和離開病房時要進行手部清潔（即洗手或者使用免洗洗手液） 5. 遵守張貼在病房門口的隔離預防措施 6. 小聲講話，以免打擾患者休息和康復 7. 將任何物品（包括食物和飲料）帶給患者之前先諮詢患者的護理師 8. 儘可能留在病房內 9. 不要觸摸患者設備 10. 不要給藥或進行患者照護 11. 看管好您的個人財物。NYU Langone Health 對遺失或錯放的物品概不負責 12. 請不要對患者、工作人員或設備拍照。不允許直播或錄製（音訊或視訊）任何醫療服務或照護 13. 任何 NYU Langone Health 機構內均不允許飲酒、使用毒品、吸菸或攜帶武器 14. 避免使用褻瀆或威脅性語言或表現出褻瀆或威脅性行為 NYU Langone Health 不容忍對工作人員的言語或身體虐待。任何干擾患者照護，或其行為或舉措被視為對患者或工作人員安全構成威脅的訪客，可能會被要求離開機構，探視權可能會受到限制或暫停。 Deklarasyon Responsablite Pasyan Nan NYU Langone Heath, sekirite ak sante w se pi gwo priyorite n. Nou pran angajman pou n f on patenarya ak ou pou n mete sou pye yon anviwonman ki sekirize, respektye ak bon pou retablisman. Deklarasyon Responsabilite Pasyan sa a, ak tout Deklarasyon Dwa Pasyan bay yon direktiv pou patisipasyon w nan swen sante w la ak atant nou pa rapò ak konpòtman pasyan, fanmi ak lòt vizitè pou ede gen yon bon relasyon ant pasyan ak estaf la. Ou gen responsabilite: 1. Pou w bay, selon tout sa ou konnen, enfòmasyon ki egzak ak konplè sou plent aktyèl yo, maladi ou te genyen, ospitalizasyon, medikaman, ak alèji ak lòt kesyon ki gen rapò ak lasante. 2. Travay ak yon ekip swen sante pou ka devlope yon plan pou tretman ki ap reponn ak bezwen w yo epi suiv rekòmandasyon l yo. • Eseye reponn kesyon ekip swen sante w la ap poze yo. • Poze kesyon. • Si gen nenpòt bagay ou pa konprann oswa pa dakò, tanpri di ekip swen sante ou a sa. • Suiv plan tretman w lan. Li enpòtan lè ou nan lòpital la ak lè ou kite lopital la. 3. Depi ou fin entène lopital la, kòmanse pale ak ekip swen w la pou fè yon plan egziya ki ap bon pou bezwen medikal ak sosyal ou yo (sètadi ki swen ou ap bezwen apre w fin egziyate). 4. Di ekip swen sante w la nenpòt enstriksyon ou gentan genyen (swen sante, testaman, avoka medikal). Si sa posib, bay kopi nenpòt enstriksyon ou gentan genyen nan moman ou entène a. 5. Ba nou kouvèti asirans ou ak lòt mwayen pèman. Tanpri di nou si w gen yon avoka finansyè. 6. Respekte règ, règleman ak kontra lopital la 7. Respekte règ ijyèn men (sètadi: lave men w, itilize dezenfektan pou men). 8. Trete lòt pasyan, vizitè ak estaf la ak respè epi konsiderasyon pandan w ap ede sipòte yon anviwonman divès ak lib. 9. Respekte dwa ekip la ak lòt pasyan yo. • Ou pa gen pèmisyon pou w itilize kamera w, tablèt, telefòn oswa lòt ekipman pou fè foto, difizyon an dirèk oswa anrejistreman (odyo oswa videyo) nenpòt sèvis oswa swen medikal la ou resevwa san pèmisyon estaf nou an. • Ou gen sèlman pèmisyon pou w fè foto oswa anrejistre yon pasyan ki pou kont li oswa ak pwòp vizitè l ak manm fanmi l. 10. Pa pote okenn bagay ki gen valè nan lopital la oswa voye lakay lè w entène a. Nou pa responsab afè w yo. Si w pa ka voye objè ki gen valè w yo lakay, tanpri pale ak yon manm estaf la pou l ka mete yo yon kote ki sekirize. 11. Respekte afè lòt moun ak lopital la, 12. Kite son an ba pou w ka ede lòt moun ki ap retabli repoze yo. 13. Konpote w yon fason ki montre w respekte lòt yo ak ou pa mete yo an danje. Sa gen ladan: • PA bwè bwason ki gen alkòl, itilize pwodui ki gen tabak oswa dwòg pou plezi • PA AFICHE konpòtman rasis oswa diskriminatwa • PA FÈ agresyon oswa vyolans • PA rele, di pawòl ki blesan NYU Langone Health pa tolere abi vèbal ak fizik sou estaf li a. Si w pa kapab konfome w ak responsabilite yo sa ka rive yo fè w kite etablisman ak/oswa ba w yon egzeyat administratif. Deklarasyon Responsabilite Vizite yo Nan NYU Langone Health, nou konnen jan fanmi, moun k ap soutni ak lòt vizite yo jwe yon wòl enpòtan nan pwosesis retablisman an, epi nou mande w pou w kolabore ak nou pou n ka kreye yon anviwonman ki sekirize, respektye ak kote kapab rive geri. Responsablite Vizite yo: 1. Revize ak respekte direktiv pou vizite NYU Langone Heath la. 2. Pa vizite si ou malad. 3. Anrejistre avan w antre epi toujou mete badj vizitè w la. 4. Respekte règ ijyèn men (sètadi: lave men w, itilize dezenfektan pou men) lè w rive ak lè w ap kite sal pasyan an. 5. Respekte prekosyon izolman yo ki nan pot sal pasyan an. 6. Ede pasyan nou yo repoze ak retabli vit lè w pale ba. 7. Mande enfimyè pasyan avan ou pote nenpòt sa l ye a bay pasyan, tankou manje ak bwason. 8. Tout tan w kapab, bat pou w rete nan sal pasyan. 9. Evite manyen ekipman pasyan. 10. Pa bay pasyan medikaman oswa ba l swen. 11. Veye sou afè pèsonèl ou. NYU Langone Health pa responsab si w pèdi afè w oswa si yo vòlè yo. 12. Tanpri pa fè foto pasyan, estaf la oswa ekipman yo. Li entèdi pou fè difizyon an dirèk oswa anrejistreman (odyo oswa videyo) nenpòt sèvis medikal oswa swen an. 13. Li entèdi pou antre nan etablisman NYU Langone Health ak alkòl. dwòg dous, tabak oswa zam. 14. Evite di pawòl ki blesan oswa gen konpòtman oswa langaj ki fè pè. NYU Langone Health pa tolere abi vèbal ak fizik sou estaf li a. Nenpòt vizite ki gen yon pwoblèm ak swen pasyan, oswa yo konsidere konpòtman l ak aksyon kòm menas pou sekirite pasyan oswa estaf la, yo ka mande l pou kite espas la epi yo ka mete restriksyon oswa kanpe dwa vizit li. Δήλωση Ευθυνών Ασθενούς Στο NYU Langone Health, η ασφάλεια και η φροντίδα σας είναι οι κορυφαίες προτεραιότητές μας. Δεσμευόμαστε να συνεργαστούμε μαζί σας για να δημιουργήσουμε ένα ασφαλές, γεμάτο σεβασμό, θεραπευτικό περιβάλλον. Αυτή η Δήλωση Ευθυνών Ασθενούς, μαζί με τη Διακήρυξη των Δικαιωμάτων του Ασθενούς, παρέχει μια κατευθυντήρια γραμμή για τη συμμετοχή σας στην υγειονομική περίθαλψη και τις προσδοκίες μας σχετικά με την υπεύθυνη συμπεριφορά από ασθενείς, οικογένειες και άλλους επισκέπτες, ώστε να οικοδομηθεί καλή σχέση μεταξύ ασθενών και προσωπικού. Εσείς φέρετε την ευθύνη για τα εξής: 1. Παρέχετε, εξ όσων γνωρίζετε, πλήρεις και ακριβείς πληροφορίες σχετικά με τα παράπονά σας, παλαιότερες ασθένειες, νοσηλεία, φάρμακα, αλλεργίες και άλλα θέματα που σχετίζονται με την υγεία 2. Συνεργαστείτε με την ομάδα υγειονομικής περίθαλψης για να αναπτύξετε ένα σχέδιο θεραπείας που ανταποκρίνεται και καλύπτει τις ανάγκες σας και ακολουθήστε τις συστάσεις τους • Προσπαθήστε να απαντήσετε στις ερωτήσεις που σας έθεσε η ομάδα υγειονομικής περίθαλψης σας • Κάντε ερωτήσεις • Ενημερώστε την ομάδα υγειονομικής περίθαλψης, εάν υπάρχει κάτι το οποίο δεν καταλαβαίνετε ή με το οποίο δεν συμφωνείτε • Ακολουθήστε το σχέδιο θεραπείας σας. Αυτό είναι σημαντικό, όσο είστε στο νοσοκομείο και αφού βγείτε από αυτό 3. Αμέσως μετά την εισαγωγή σας στο νοσοκομείο, αρχίστε να συνεργάζεστε με την ομάδα φροντίδας σας στη δημιουργία ενός σχεδίου εξιτηρίου που να καλύπτει τις ιατρικές και κοινωνικές σας ανάγκες (δηλαδή τί είδους φροντίδα θα χρειαστείτε μετά την έξοδο σας) 4. Ενημερώστε το προσωπικό του νοσοκομείου και την ομάδα υγειονομικής σας περίθαλψης για τυχόν σύνθετα ζητήματά σας (πληρεξούσιο υγειονομικής περίθαλψης, διαθήκη, ιατρικό πληρεξούσιο). Αν είναι δυνατό, να παράσχετε εκ των προτέρων αντίγραφα οδηγιών σας σε περίπτωση ανικανότητάς σας κατά την εισαγωγή σας στο νοσοκομείο 5. Παρέχετε μας την ασφαλιστική σας κάλυψη ή και άλλες πηγές πληρωμής. Πείτε μας αν έχετε ορίσει οικονομικό πληρεξούσιο 6. Σεβαστείτε και τηρείτε τους κανόνες, τους κανονισμούς και τις πολιτικές του νοσοκομείου 7. Τηρείτε υγιεινή των χεριών (π.χ. πλύσιμο των χεριών, χρήση απολυμαντικού χεριών) 8. Αντιμετωπίστε τους άλλους ασθενείς, τους επισκέπτες και το προσωπικό με σεβασμό και εκτίμηση, για να βοηθήσετε στην υποστήριξη ενός ποικίλου και χωρίς αποκλεισμούς περιβάλλοντος 9. Σεβαστείτε τα δικαιώματα απορρήτου του προσωπικού και άλλων ασθενών • Δεν επιτρέπεται να χρησιμοποιείτε τις κάμερες, τα τάμπλετ (tablet), τα τηλέφωνα ή άλλο εξοπλισμό σας για λήψη φωτογραφιών, ζωντανή ροή ή ηχογραφήσεις (ήχου ή βίντεο) οποιασδήποτε ιατρικής υπηρεσίας ή φροντίδας που λαμβάνετε χωρίς την άδεια του προσωπικού μας. • Επιτρέπεται να φωτογραφίζετε ή να καταγράφετε μόνο έναν ασθενή ή με τους δικούς του επισκέπτες και μέλη της οικογένειάς του. 10. Μην φέρνετε αντικείμενα αξίας στο νοσοκομείο και να τα στέλνετε στο σπίτι κατά την εισαγωγή. Δεν είμαστε υπεύθυνοι για τα υπάρχοντά σας. Εάν δεν μπορείτε να στείλετε τα αντικείμενα αξίας σας στο σπίτι, μιλήστε με ένα μέλος του προσωπικού για να τα ασφαλίσετε. 11. Σεβαστείτε την ιδιοκτησία των άλλων και του νοσοκομείου 12. Τηρείτε το επίπεδο θορύβου χαμηλό, για να συμβάλετε στην ταχεία ανάρρωση με ηρεμία 13. Συμπεριφερθείτε με κατανόηση προς τους άλλους και αποφύγετε καταστάσεις που ενέχουν κινδύνους για αυτούς. Σε αυτά περιλαμβάνονται τα εξής: • Μην πίνετε αλκοόλ, μη χρησιμοποιείτε προϊόντα καπνού ή ψυχαγωγικά ναρκωτικά • Μην επιδεικνύετε ρατσιστικές ή μεροληπτικές συμπεριφορές • Μη συμπεριφέρεστε επιθετικά ή βίαια • Μην ουρλιάζετε, μη χρησιμοποιείτε βωμολοχίες ή άλλη προσβλητική γλώσσα Το NYU Langone Health δεν ανέχεται τη λεκτική ή σωματική κακοποίηση του προσωπικού μας. Η αδυναμία συμμόρφωσης με αυτές τις ευθύνες μπορεί να οδηγήσει σε απομάκρυνση από το ίδρυμα ή/και διοικητική απαλλαγή Δήλωση Ευθυνών Επισκεπτών Στο NYU Langone Health, αναγνωρίζουμε τον ρόλο που παίζουν οι οικογένειες, τα άτομα υποστήριξης και άλλοι επισκέπτες στη διαδικασία θεραπείας και σας ζητάμε να συνεργαστείτε μαζί μας για να παρέχουμε ένα περιβάλλον που είναι ασφαλές, με σεβασμό και ευνοϊκό για τη θεραπεία. Ευθύνες επισκεπτών: 1. Διαβάστε και συμμορφωθείτε με τις οδηγίες επισκεπτών του NYU Langone Health 2. Μην επισκεφθείτε το ίδρυμα, εάν είστε άρρωστοι 3. Κάντε check in πριν την είσοδο και φοράτε το σήμα επισκέπτη ανά πάσα στιγμή 4. Εστιάστε στην υγιεινή των χεριών (π.χ. πλύσιμο χεριών, χρήση απολυμαντικού χεριών) κατά την άφιξη και κατά την έξοδο από το δωμάτιο του ασθενούς 5. Ακολουθήστε τις προφυλάξεις απομόνωσης που είναι αναρτημένες στην πόρτα του ασθενούς 6. Υποστηρίξτε την ξεκούραση και την ανάρρωση των ασθενών μας μιλώντας χαμηλόφωνα 7. Επικοινωνήστε με τον/η νοσοκόμο/α του ασθενούς πριν φέρετε οποιοδήποτε αντικείμενο στον ασθενή, συμπεριλαμβανομένων των τροφίμων και των ποτών 8. Παραμείνετε στο δωμάτιο του ασθενούς, μέχρι τα επιτρεπτά, χρονικά όρια 9. Μην αγγίζετε τον εξοπλισμό του ασθενούς 10. Μην χορηγείτε φάρμακα ή φροντίζετε τον ασθενή αυτοβούλως 11. Φροντίστε την προσωπική σας περιουσία. Το NYU Langone Health δεν φέρει ευθύνη για χαμένα ή ξεχασμένα αντικείμενα 12. Μην τραβάτε φωτογραφίες ασθενών, προσωπικού ή εξοπλισμού. Δεν επιτρέπεται η ζωντανή ροή μετάδοσης ή η εγγραφή (ήχου ή βίντεο) οποιασδήποτε ιατρικής υπηρεσίας ή περίθαλψης 13. Το αλκοόλ, τα ψυχαγωγικά ναρκωτικά, ο καπνός ή τα όπλα δεν επιτρέπονται εντός οποιασδήποτε μονάδας υγείας του NYU Langone 14. Αποφύγετε τη χρήση βωμολοχιών ή απειλητικής γλώσσας ή συμπεριφοράς Το NYU Langone Health δεν ανέχεται τη λεκτική ή σωματική κακοποίηση του προσωπικού μας. Οποιοσδήποτε επισκέπτης παρεμβαίνει στη φροντίδα των ασθενών ή του οποίου οι συμπεριφορές ή οι ενέργειες θεωρούνται απειλή για την ασφάλεια του ασθενούς ή του προσωπικού, ενδέχεται να ζητηθεί να φύγει και τα δικαιώματα επίσκεψής του ενδέχεται να περιοριστούν ή να ανασταλούν. Dichiarazione dei doveri del paziente In NYU Langone Health abbiamo a cuore la Sua salute e sicurezza. Ci impegniamo a collaborare per offrirLe un ambiente sicuro, rispettoso e salubre. In questa Dichiarazione dei doveri del paziente, insieme alla Carta dei diritti del paziente, troverà le linee guida per la Sua partecipazione all’assistenza sanitaria e le nostre aspettative in termini di comportamento responsabile dei pazienti, delle loro famiglie e dei visitatori al fine di instaurare un buon rapporto tra i pazienti e il personale. È Suo dovere: 1. Fornire, per quanto di Sua conoscenza, informazioni complete e precise riguardo ai Suoi disturbi attuali e a malattie pregresse, ricoveri precedenti, medicine assunte, allergie ed altri problemi di salute correlati 2. Collaborare con l’équipe sanitaria allo sviluppo di un piano terapeutico che soddisfi le Sue esigenze e seguire le relative raccomandazioni • Fornire per quanto possibile una risposta alle domande poste dall’équipe sanitaria • Fare domande • Comunicare all’équipe sanitaria se c’è qualcosa che non ha compreso o su cui non è d’accordo • Seguire il piano terapeutico assegnato. È importante sia quando è in ospedale sia quando rientra a casa 3. Subito dopo il ricovero in ospedale, iniziare a collaborare con l’équipe sanitaria allo sviluppo di un piano di dimissione che soddisfi le Sue esigenze mediche e sociali (ovvero, le cure di cui avrà bisogno dopo la dimissione) 4. Informare l’équipe sanitaria di eventuali disposizioni anticipate di trattamento (delega alle cure, testamento biologico, procura medica). Se possibile, fornisca una copia delle Sue disposizioni al momento del ricovero 5. Indicarci la Sua copertura assicurativa ed altre fonti di pagamento. Ci comunichi se ha nominato un procuratore finanziario 6. Rispettare e seguire le regole, le norme e le politiche dell’ospedale 7. Igienizzare le mani (si lavi le mani, applichi l’igienizzante sulle mani) 8. Trattare gli altri pazienti, i visitatori e il personale con rispetto e considerazione, contribuendo così a sostenere un ambiente diversificato e inclusivo 9. Rispettare il diritto alla riservatezza del personale e degli altri pazienti • Non Le è consentito utilizzare fotocamere, tablet, telefoni o altre apparecchiature per scattare fotografie, fare dirette streaming o riprendere (in audio o video) le prestazioni o le cure mediche che riceve senza il permesso del nostro personale. • Le è consentito fare foto o riprese video di un paziente da solo o con i suoi visitatori e familiari. 10. Non introdurre oggetti o beni di valore in ospedale o chiedere di riportarli a casa dopo il ricovero. Non siamo responsabili dei Suoi beni. Se non è in grado di riportare a casa i Suoi beni di valore, si rivolga a un membro del personale per la loro custodia. 11. Rispettare i beni di proprietà altrui e dell’ospedale 12. Evitare di disturbare il riposo altrui 13. Comportarsi con rispetto senza compromettere la sicurezza altrui. Ciò include: • NON assumere alcolici e fare uso di prodotti del tabacco o stupefacenti • NON manifestare comportamenti razzisti o discriminatori • NON essere aggressivi o violenti • NON urlare o usare un linguaggio volgare od offensivo NYU Langone Health non tollera abusi verbali o fisici nei confronti del personale. Il mancato rispetto di questi doveri potrà comportare l’espulsione dalla struttura e/o una dimissione forzata Dichiarazione dei doveri del visitatore In NYU Langone Health riconosciamo il ruolo svolto dalle famiglie, dalle persone di sostegno e dai visitatori nel processo di guarigione, pertanto La invitiamo a collaborare nel fornire un ambiente che sia sicuro, rispettoso e contribuisca alla guarigione. Doveri del visitatore: 1. Legga e segua le linee guida per i visitatori di NYU Langone Health 2. Non venga in visita se sta male 3. Si registri all’ingresso e indossi sempre il tesserino di visitatore 4. Igienizzi le mani (si lavi le mani, applichi l’igienizzante sulle mani) all’arrivo e quando lascia la stanza di degenza 5. Segua le precauzioni di isolamento affisse sulla porta della stanza di degenza 6. Favorisca il riposo e la convalescenza dei pazienti parlando a bassa voce 7. Chieda prima a un’infermiera se può portare qualcosa al paziente, ad esempio alimenti e bevande 8. Per quanto possibile, resti all’interno della stanza di degenza 9. Non tocchi le apparecchiature del paziente 10. Non somministri medicine né presti cure al paziente 11. Accudisca i Suoi effetti personali. NYU Langone Health non è responsabile dello smarrimento o della sottrazione di oggetti 12. Non faccia foto che ritraggano i pazienti, il personale o le apparecchiature. Non è consentito fare dirette streaming o riprendere (in audio o video) le prestazioni o le cure mediche 13. Non è consentito introdurre alcolici, stupefacenti, prodotti del tabacco o armi all’interno delle strutture NYU Langone Health 14. Eviti di usare un linguaggio o un comportamento volgare o minaccioso NYU Langone Health non tollera abusi verbali o fisici nei confronti del personale. I visitatori che interferiscono con le cure dei pazienti o i cui comportamenti o azioni sono ritenuti una minaccia per la sicurezza dei pazienti o del personale potranno essere allontanati e vedere limitato o sospeso il diritto a fare visita. 환자 책임 강령 NYU Langone Health는 귀하의 안전과 치료를 최우선으로 생각합니다. 저희는 귀하와 협력하여 안전하고 서로를 존중하며 치유하는 환경을 만들기 위해 최선을 다합니다. 본 환자 책임 강령은 환자 권리 장전과 함께 의료 서비스에 대한 귀하의 참여와 환자, 가족과 기타 방문객으로부터 저희가 기대하는 책임 있는 행동에 대한 가이드라인으로서 환자와 직원 간에 건강한 관계를 구축하는 데 도움이 되고자 합니다. 귀하의 책임은 다음과 같습니다. 1. 귀하의 현재 불편함, 과거 질환, 입원 사실, 투약 사항, 알레르기 및 기타 건강 관련 사안에 대해 귀하가 아는 한 전체 정보를 정확하게 제공할 것 2. 담당 의료팀과 협력해 귀하의 요구를 충족하는 치료 계획을 개발하고 의료팀의 권고 사항을 따를 것 • 담당 의료팀의 질문에 최선을 다해 답함 • 질문을 함 • 귀하가 이해하지 못하거나 동의하지 않는 사항이 있을 경우 담당 의료팀에 전달함 • 치료 계획을 따름. 이는 귀하가 병원에 입원해 있을 때나 퇴원한 후에도 중요합니다. 3. 병원 입원 후 곧바로 담당 의료팀과 함께 귀하의 의료 및 사회적 요구를 충족하는 퇴원 계획 작성에 참여하기 시작할 것(즉, 퇴원 후 귀하에게 어떤 케어가 필요한지 등) 4. 귀하가 사전 지시(의료 대리인, 사망 선택 유언, 의료 위임장)가 있을 경우 담당 의료팀에게 전달할 것. 가능하다면 귀하가 입원할 당시 사전 지시서 사본을 제출할 것 5. 귀하의 보험 보장 범위 및 기타 비용 부담 출처를 제공할 것. 재정 관련 대리인을 지명했는지 알려 줄 것 6. 병원의 규칙, 규정 및 정책을 존중하고 준수할 것 7. 손 위생 실시(예: 손 씻기, 손 소독제 사용) 8. 다양하고 포용적인 환경 조성에 도움을 주며 다른 환자, 방문객과 직원을 존중과 배려의 마음으로 대할 것 9. 직원과 다른 환자의 개인정보 보호의 권리를 존중할 것 • 카메라, 태블릿, 전화기 또는 기타 장비를 사용해 저희 직원의 허가 없이 귀하가 받는 의료 서비스 또는 치료에 대한 사진을 찍거나 라이브 스트리밍을 하거나 녹화(오디오 혹은 비디오)하는 행위는 허용되지 않습니다. • 환자만 또는 환자의 방문객과 가족에 대한 사진 촬영이나 녹화만 허용됩니다. 10. 병원에 귀중품을 가져오지 말고 가져온 경우 입원 시 집으로 돌려보내십시오. 환자 소지품에 대해 저희는 책임지지 않습니다. 귀하의 귀중품을 집으로 돌려보낼 수 없는 경우, 보관할 방법을 직원과 상의하십시오. 11. 타인과 병원에 속한 소유권을 존중할 것 12. 안락한 치유에 도움이 되도록 소음을 줄일 것 13. 타인을 배려하고 위험에 빠뜨리지 않는 태도로 행동할 것. 여기에는 다음이 포함됩니다. • 술, 담배 제품이나 기분 전환 약물을 사용하지 말 것 • 인종차별적이거나 기타 차별적인 행동을 하지 말 것 • 공격적이거나 폭력적인 행동을 하지 말 것 • 소리를 지르거나 비속어나 기타 불쾌한 언어를 사용하지 말 것 NYU Langone Health는 저희 직원에 대한 구두 혹은 신체적인 학대를 용납하지 않습니다. 본 책임 강령을 준수하지 않을 경우 시설 퇴소 및/또는 행정적 퇴원 처분이 내려질 수 있습니다. 방문객 책임 강령 NYU Langone Health는 치유 과정에서 가족, 간병인 및 기타 방문객이 하는 역할을 인지하고 있으며, 안전하고 서로를 존중하며 치유에 도움이 되는 환경을 조성하는 데 있어 귀하의 협조를 구합니다. 방문객의 책임은 다음과 같습니다. 1. NYU Langone Health 방문객 지침을 검토하고 준수할 것 2. 귀하에게 병세가 있다면 방문하지 말 것 3. 내원 전에 방문객 수속을 하고 항상 배지를 착용할 것 4. 도착 시, 그리고 병실을 나올 때 손 위생(즉, 손 씻기, 손 세정제 사용하기)을 실시할 것 5. 환자 병실에 게시되어 있는 격리 예방 조치를 따를 것 6. 환자들의 휴식과 회복에 도움이 되도록 목소리를 낮출 것 7. 음식, 음료를 포함해 환자에게 물품을 가져오기 전에 담당 간호사에게 확인받을 것 8. 가능하면 최대한 환자 병실에 머무를 것 9. 환자 장치를 만지지 말 것 10. 약물을 투여하거나 환자 케어를 하지 말 것 11. 개인 소지품을 잘 챙길 것. NYU Langone Health는 분실 또는 잃어버린 물품에 대해 책임지지 않음 12. 환자, 직원 또는 장비 사진을 촬영하지 마십시오. 의료 서비스 또는 치료 관련 라이브 스트리밍 혹은 녹화(오디오 혹은 비디오)는 허용되지 않음 13. NYU Langone Health 시설 내부 전 장소에서 술, 기분 전환 약물, 담배나 무기 등은 허용되지 않음 14. 비속어나 위협적인 언어 또는 행동을 삼가십시오. NYU Langone Health는 직원에 대한 구두 혹은 신체적인 학대를 용납하지 않습니다. 환자의 치료에 간섭하거나, 환자나 직원 안전에 위협으로 여겨지는 행동이나 행위를 하는 방문객에게는 나가달라고 요청할 수 있고 면접권을 제한하거나 유예할 수 있습니다. Oświadczenie o obowiązkach pacjenta Priorytetem dla NYU Langone Health jest zapewnienie pacjentom bezpieczeństwa i opieki. Jesteśmy zaangażowani we współpracę z pacjentami na rzecz tworzenia bezpiecznych i opartych na szacunku warunków leczenia. Dokumenty, takie jak Oświadczenie o obowiązkach pacjenta oraz Karta praw pacjenta, zawierają wytyczne dotyczące korzystania przez naszych pacjentów z zapewnianej przez nas opieki zdrowotnej, a także nasze oczekiwania dotyczące odpowiedzialnego zachowania pacjentów, członków ich rodzin oraz innych osób odwiedzających, wspomagające budowanie dobrych relacji pomiędzy pacjentami i członkami naszego personelu. Obowiązkiem pacjenta jest: 1. Przekazywać nam, zgodnie z najlepszym stanem jego wiedzy, kompletne i rzetelne informacje na temat aktualnych dolegliwości, przebytych chorób, wcześniejszych pobytów w szpitalu, przyjmowanych leków, alergii oraz innych kwestii dotyczących jego stanu zdrowia. 2. Współpracować z zespołem opieki zdrowotnej w celu opracowania planu leczenia spełniającego potrzeby pacjenta oraz stosować się do zaleceń. • Podejmować próby udzielania odpowiedzi na pytania zadawane przez zespół opieki zdrowotnej. • Zadawać pytania. • Informować zespół opieki zdrowotnej o ewentualnych kwestiach, które są dla pacjenta niezrozumiałe lub z którymi się nie zgadza. • Przestrzegać planu leczenia. Jest to szczególnie ważne podczas pobytu w szpitalu oraz po powrocie do domu. 3. Wkrótce po przyjęciu do szpitala rozpocząć współpracę z zespołem ds. opieki nad opracowaniem planu wypisu spełniającego medyczne oraz społeczne potrzeby pacjenta (np. dotyczące rodzaju opieki, jakiej pacjent będzie potrzebował po wypisaniu ze szpitala). 4. Powiadamiać zespół opieki zdrowotnej o wszelkich dyspozycjach pacjenta (pełnomocnik ds. opieki zdrowotnej, testament, pełnomocnik ds. medycznych). Jeśli to możliwe, przekazywać kopie dyspozycji pacjenta w momencie przyjęcia do szpitala. 5. Przekazać nam informacje na temat zakresu ubezpieczenia oraz innych źródeł płatności. Poinformować nas o ewentualnym wyznaczeniu pełnomocnika ds. finansowych. 6. Przestrzegać zasad regulacyjnych i przepisów szpitala. 7. Dbać o właściwą higienę rąk (np. myć ręce, używać środka odkażającego). 8. Traktować innych pacjentów, osoby odwiedzające i członków personelu z szacunkiem i poważaniem, wspierając tworzenie środowiska sprzyjającego różnorodności i integracji. 9. Szanować prawa do prywatności członków personelu oraz innych pacjentów. • Pacjentom nie wolno używać swoich aparatów fotograficznych, tabletów, telefonów oraz innego sprzętu elektronicznego do robienia zdjęć, prowadzenia relacji na żywo ani rejestrowania nagrań (audio lub wideo) przedstawiających jakiekolwiek usługi medyczne lub inne czynności wchodzące w zakres opieki świadczonej naszym pacjentom bez zgody naszego personelu. • Pacjenci mogą robić zdjęcia lub rejestrować nagrania przedstawiające wyłącznie ich samych lub takie, na których znajdują się w towarzystwie osób odwiedzających oraz członków swoich rodzin. 10. Nie zabierać ze sobą do szpitala jakichkolwiek przedmiotów wartościowych lub odesłać je do domu po przyjęciu do szpitala. Nie odpowiadamy za rzeczy pacjenta. Jeżeli pacjent nie ma możliwości odesłania swoich rzeczy do domu, należy porozmawiać z członkiem naszego personelu na temat ewentualnej możliwości ich zabezpieczenia. 11. Szanować własność należącą do innych osób i szpitala. 12. Przestrzegać zasad dotyczących poziomu hałasu, aby umożliwić odpoczynek sprzyjający powrotowi do zdrowia. 13. Zachowywać się w sposób taktowny wobec innych osób i nie narażać ich na ryzyko. Obejmuje to, w szczególności, przestrzeganie następujących zasad: • ZAKAZ spożywania alkoholu, palenia papierosów oraz zażywania jakichkolwiek narkotyków. • ZAKAZ przejawiania zachowań rasistowskich oraz dyskryminacji. • ZAKAZ przejawiania agresji i stosowania przemocy. • ZAKAZ krzyczenia, używania przekleństw oraz jakichkolwiek innych obraźliwych sformułowań. W placówkach medycznych NYU Langone Health nie tolerujemy jakichkolwiek werbalnych ani fizycznych form złego traktowania naszego personelu. Nieprzestrzeganie tych zasad może skutkować usunięciem z placówki i/lub wypisem dyscyplinarnym. Oświadczenie o obowiązkach osób odwiedzających W placówkach medycznych NYU Langone Health dostrzegamy, jak ważna jest rola rodzin, osób wspierających oraz innych osób odwiedzających w procesie powrotu naszych pacjentów do zdrowia i dlatego prosimy o współpracę z nami w zakresie zapewniania sprzyjających temu, bezpiecznych i opartych na szacunku warunków leczenia. Obowiązki osób odwiedzających: 1. Zapoznać się z wytycznymi NYU Langone Health dla osób odwiedzających i ich przestrzegać. 2. Nie wybierać się w odwiedziny podczas przechodzenia jakiejkolwiek infekcji. 3. Każdorazowo zgłaszać swoje przyjście w recepcji i przez cały czas nosić identyfikator. 4. Dbać o właściwą higienę rąk (np. myć ręce, używać środka odkażającego) po wejściu do szpitala oraz po opuszczeniu sali pacjentów. 5. Przestrzegać zaleceń dotyczących izolacji umieszczonych na drzwiach wejściowych do sal pacjentów. 6. Stwarzać warunki sprzyjające odpoczynkowi i szybkiemu powrotowi do zdrowia poprzez mówienie przyciszonym głosem. 7. Zapytać pielęgniarkę o pozwolenie przed przekazaniem pacjentowi jakichkolwiek przedmiotów, w tym produktów spożywczych oraz napojów. 8. Starać się, w miarę możliwości, nie opuszczać sali pacjenta. 9. Nie dotykać sprzętów medycznych pacjenta. 10. Nie podawać pacjentowi leków ani nie wykonywać żadnych czynności związanych z jego opieką. 11. Uważać na swoje rzeczy osobiste. Placówki medyczne NYU Langone Health nie ponoszą odpowiedzialności za zagubione oraz utracone przedmioty. 12. Nie robić zdjęć pacjentów, personelu ani sprzętu medycznego. Prowadzenie relacji na żywo i rejestrowanie nagrań (audio lub wideo) przedstawiających przebieg jakichkolwiek procedur medycznych lub czynności w ramach opieki nad pacjentami jest surowo zabronione. 13. Spożywanie alkoholu, palenie papierosów, zażywanie jakichkolwiek narkotyków oraz wnoszenie na teren placówek NYU Langone Health jakiejkolwiek broni jest surowo zabronione. 14. Nie wolno używać wulgaryzmów ani innych obraźliwych sformułowań, a także stosować gróźb werbalnych ani zachowywać się w sposób niebezpieczny lub obraźliwy. W placówkach medycznych NYU Langone Health nie tolerujemy jakichkolwiek werbalnych ani fizycznych form złego traktowania personelu. Każda osoba odwiedzająca, która w jakikolwiek sposób zakłóci przebieg czynności związanych z opieką nad pacjentami lub której zachowanie zostanie odebrane jako zagrażające bezpieczeństwu pacjentów, może zostać poproszona o opuszczenie placówki, a jej prawa do odwiedzin mogą zostać ograniczone lub zawieszone. Declaração de responsabilidades do pacienteNo NYU Langone Health, a segurança e os cuidados do paciente são a nossa principal prioridade. Comprometemo nos a colaborar consigo para criar um ambiente seguro, respeitoso e terapêutico. A presente declaração de responsabilidades do paciente, juntamente com a carta de direitos do paciente, fornece diretrizes para a sua participação nos seus cuidados de saúde e as nossas expectativas sobre o comportamento responsável dos pacientes, familiares e outras visitas para ajudar a construir uma boa relação entre os pacientes e os profissionais.É da sua responsabilidade:1.Fornecer, tanto quanto for do seu conhecimento, informações completas e exatas sobre as suas queixas atuais, doenças anteriores, internamentos hospitalares, medicamentos, alergias e outras questões relacionadas clínicas2. Trabalhar com a sua equipa de cuidados de saúde para desenvolver um plano terapêutico que satisfaça as suas necessidades e seguir as recomendações•Tentar responder às perguntas feitas pela equipa de cuidados de saúde•Fazer perguntas•Informar a equipa de cuidados de saúde se existir algo que não compreende ou não concorda•Seguir o seu plano terapêutico. Isto é importante enquanto se encontra no hospital e depois de ter alta3. Imediatamente após a sua admissão no hospital, deve começar a participar com a equipa de cuidados de saúde na criação de um plano de alta que satisfaça as suas necessidades médicas e sociais (ou seja, os cuidados de que irá necessitar após a alta)4. Informar a equipa de cuidados de saúde sobre qualquer diretiva antecipada de vontade que tenha (procuração para cuidados de saúde, testamento vital, procuração médica). Se possível, fornecer cópias de qualquer diretiva antecipada de vontade no ato da sua admissão5. Indicar nos a sua cobertura de seguro e outras fontes de pagamento. Indicar nos se nomeou um mandatário financeiro6. Respeitar e seguir as regras, regulamentos e políticas do hospital7.Efetuar a higienização das mãos (ou seja, lavar as mãos, usar desinfetante para as mãos)8. Tratar os outros pacientes, visitas e funcionários com respeito e consideração, ajudando a manter um ambiente diversificado e inclusivo9. Respeitar os direitos de privacidade do pessoal e dos outros pacientes•Não é permitido utilizar máquinas fotográficas, tablets, telemóveis ou outro equipamento para tirar fotografias, transmitir em direto ou efetuar gravações (áudio ou vídeo) de qualquer serviço médico ou cuidados que receba sem a autorização do nosso pessoal.•Só é permitido fotografar ou gravar um paciente sozinho ou com as respetivas visitas e membros da família.10. Não trazer pertences de valor para o hospital ou enviá los para casa após a admissão. Não nos responsabilizamos pelos seus pertences. Se não puder enviar os seus pertences de valor para casa, fale com um membro do pessoal para guardá los.11. Respeitar os bens que pertençam a outras pessoas e ao hospital12. Manter o nível de ruído baixo para permitir uma recuperação tranquila13. Comportar se de forma a respeitar os outros e a não os colocar em risco. Isto inclui:•NÃO beber álcool, não consumir produtos de tabaco nem drogas recreativas•NÃO apresentar comportamentos racistas ou discriminatórios•NÃO ser agressivo/a ou violento/a•NÃO gritar, usar palavrões ou outra linguagem ofensivaO NYU Langone Health não tolera o abuso verbal ou físico do seu pessoal. A incapacidade em cumprir com estas responsabilidades pode resultar na expulsão do estabelecimento e/ou numa alta administrativaDeclaração de responsabilidades da visitaNo NYU Langone Health, reconhecemos o papel que as famílias, acompanhantes e outros visitas desempenham no processo de recuperação e pedimos lhe que colabore connosco para proporcionar um ambiente que seja seguro, respeitoso e terapêutico. 1.Rever e observar as diretrizes para visitas do NYU Langone Health2. Não visitar se estiver doente3. Efetuar o check in antes da entrada e utilizar sempre um crachá de visita4. Efetuar a higienização das mãos (ou seja, lavar as mãos, usar desinfetante para as mãos) à chegada e à saída do quarto do paciente5.Cumprir as precauções de isolamento afixadas na porta do quarto do paciente6. Promover o repouso e a recuperação dos nossos pacientes, falando em voz baixa7.Consultar a enfermeira do paciente antes de lhe trazer quaisquer artigos, incluindo alimentos e bebidas8. Na medida do possível, permanecer no quarto do paciente9. Não tocar no equipamento do paciente10. Não administrar medicamentos nem prestar cuidados ao paciente11. Cuidar dos seus pertences. O NYU Langone Health não se responsabiliza por pertences perdidos ou extraviados12. Não tirar fotos de pacientes, funcionários ou equipamentos. Não é permitida a transmissão ao vivo ou gravação (áudio ou vídeo) de qualquer serviço ou cuidado médico13. O álcool, as drogas recreativas, o tabaco ou as armas não são permitidos em nenhuma unidade do NYU Langone Health14. Abster se de usar palavrões ou linguagem ou comportamentos ameaçadoresResponsabilidades das visita:O NYU Langone Health não tolera o abuso verbal ou físico do seu pessoal. Qualquer visita que interfira com os cuidados dos pacientes ou cujos comportamentos ou ações sejam considerados uma ameaça à segurança dos pacientes ou do pessoal pode ser convidada a sair e pode ver os seus direitos de visita restringidos ou suspensos. Заявление об обязанностях пациента Главная задача NYU Langone Health — обеспечение вашего ухода и безопасности. Мы прилагаем все усилия для создания безопасной, уважительной и благоприятной для выздоровления среду при вашем содействии. Настоящее Заявление об обязанностях пациента, наряду с Биллем о правах пациента, представляет собой руководство по вашему участию в медицинском обслуживании и описывает наши ожидания в отношении ответственного поведения пациентов, членов их семей и других посетителей для развития хороших отношений между пациентами и персоналом. Ваши обязанности 1. Предоставлять по мере возможности полную и точную информацию о ваших текущих жалобах, перенесенных в прошлом заболеваниях, госпитализации, лекарствах, аллергиях и других вопросах, связанных со здоровьем. 2. Оказывать содействие своей команде медицинского обслуживания при составлении плана лечения, соответствующего вашим потребностям, а также следовать рекомендациям этих специалистов. • Стараться отвечать на вопросы, которые задают специалисты вашей бригады медицинского обслуживания. • Задавать вопросы. • Сообщать своей бригаде медицинского обслуживания, если вы чего то не понимаете или с чем то не согласны. • Придерживаться своего плана лечения. Это важно делать во время пребывания в больнице и после выписки. 3. Вскоре после поступления в больницу начать вместе со своей бригадой медицинского обслуживания составлять план выписки, отвечающий вашим медицинским и социальным потребностям (т. е. определяющий уход, в котором вы будете нуждаться после выписки). 4. Сообщать своей бригаде медицинского обслуживания о любых имеющихся у вас заблаговременных распоряжениях (доверенности на принятие решений о лечении, прижизненном волеизъявлении, медицинской доверенности). По возможности предоставить копии всех имеющихся у вас заблаговременных распоряжений в момент поступления в больницу. 5. Предоставить нам информацию о вашем страховом покрытии и других источниках платежей. Сообщить нам о наличии оформленной финансовой доверенности. 6. Уважать и соблюдать правила, нормы и политику больницы. 7. Соблюдать гигиену рук (т. е. мыть руки, использовать дезинфицирующее средство для рук). 8. Уважительно относиться к другим пациентам, посетителям и сотрудникам, помогая поддерживать разнообразную и инклюзивную среду. 9. Уважать права на неприкосновенность личной жизни персонала и других пациентов. • Запрещено использовать камеры, планшеты, телефоны или другое оборудование для съемки, прямой трансляции или записи (аудио либо видео) любых оказываемых вам услуг медицинской помощи или ухода без разрешения персонала. • Фотографировать или записывать аудио и видеоматериалы с участием пациента разрешается только тогда, когда он находится один либо со своими посетителями и членами семьи. 10. Не приносить в больницу ценные вещи либо передать их домой после госпитализации. Больница не несет ответственности за сохранность личных вещей пациентов. Если у вас нет возможности передать ценные вещи домой, обратитесь к сотруднику больницы, чтобы обеспечить их сохранность. 11. Бережно относиться к имуществу, принадлежащему другим лицам и больнице. 12. Не шуметь (это способствует спокойному процессу выздоровления). 13. Вести себя таким образом, чтобы не мешать окружающим и не подвергать их опасности. Это включает следующее: • НЕ употреблять алкоголь, табачные изделия или рекреационные наркотики. • НЕ демонстрировать расистское или дискриминационное поведение. • НЕ проявлять агрессию и жестокость. • НЕ кричать и НЕ использовать ненормативную лексику и другие оскорбительные выражения. NYU Langone Health не терпит словесного или физического насилия в отношении нашего персонала. Неспособность выполнять эти обязанности может привести к исключению из учреждения и (или) административной выписке. Заявление об обязанностях посетителей NYU Langone Health признает роль семей, лиц, оказывающих поддержку, и других посетителей в процессе выздоровления и просим вас оказывать содействие для создания безопасной, уважительной и способствующей выздоровлению обстановки. Обязанности посетителей 1. Ознакомиться с правилами посещения NYU Langone Health и соблюдать их. 2. Отложить посещение, если вы болеете. 3. Зарегистрироваться перед входом в учреждение и постоянно носить бейдж посетителя. 4. Соблюдать гигиену рук (т. е. мыть руки, использовать дезинфицирующее средство для рук) по прибытии в учреждение и при выходе из палаты пациента. 5. Соблюдать меры предосторожности в связи с изоляцией согласно объявлению на двери пациента. 6. Тихо разговаривать для поддержания атмосферы отдыха и восстановления наших пациентов. 7. Консультироваться с медсестрой пациента, прежде чем приносить ему какие либо предметы, включая еду и напитки. 8. По мере возможности находиться в палате пациента. 9. Не прикасаться к оборудованию пациента. 10. Не давать пациенту лекарства и не оказывать ему медицинскую помощь. 11. Присматривать за своими личными вещами. NYU Langone Health не несет ответственности за потерянные вещи. 12. Не фотографировать пациентов, персонал или оборудование. Не разрешается вести прямую трансляцию или запись (аудио либо видео) никакого медицинского обслуживания или ухода. 13. Запрещено проносить алкоголь, наркотики, табачные изделия и оружие во все учреждения NYU Langone Health. 14. Воздерживаться от использования ненормативной лексики, угрожающих выражений или поведения. NYU Langone Health не терпит словесного или физического насилия в отношении персонала. Любого посетителя, который вмешивается в медицинское обслуживание пациентов либо демонстрирует поведение или действия, которые считаются угрозой безопасности пациентов или персонала, могут попросить покинуть учреждение, а право на посещение может быть ограничено либо приостановлено. Declaración de responsabilidades del paciente En NYU Langone Health, su seguridad y su atención son nuestra prioridad. Nos comprometemos a colaborar con usted para crear un entorno de recuperación seguro y respetuoso. Esta Declaración de responsabilidades del paciente y la Declaración de derechos del paciente son una guía para la participación en su atención médica y sobre nuestras expectativas para la conducta responsable de los pacientes, las familias y otras visitas, para ayudar a construir una buena relación entre los pacientes y el personal. Usted tiene la responsabilidad de: 1. dar, según su leal saber y entender, información completa y precisa sobre sus molestias actuales, enfermedades pasadas, hospitalizaciones, medicamentos, alergias y otros asuntos relacionados con la salud. 2. trabajar con su equipo de atención médica para hacer un plan de tratamiento que cubra sus necesidades y seguir sus recomendaciones. • Trate de responder las preguntas que le haga su equipo de atención médica. • Haga preguntas. • Dígale a su equipo de atención médica si hay algo que no entiende o con lo que no está de acuerdo. • Siga su plan de tratamiento. Esto es importante mientras esté en el hospital y después del alta. 3. Poco después de su ingreso en el hospital, empezar a colaborar con su equipo de atención en la creación de un plan para el alta que cubra sus necesidades médicas y sociales (es decir, qué tipo de atención necesitará después del alta). 4. Decirle a su equipo de atención médica si tiene alguna directiva anticipada (poder para decisiones médicas, testamento vital, poder notarial para decisiones médicas). Si es posible, entregue copias de las directivas anticipadas en el momento de su ingreso. 5. Proporcionarnos la cobertura de su seguro y otras fuentes de ingresos. Infórmenos si ha nombrado un apoderado para cuestiones económicas. 6. Respetar y cumplir las normas, reglamentaciones y políticas del hospital. 7. Higienizarse las manos (es decir, lavarse las manos, usar desinfectante para manos). 8. Tratar a los demás pacientes, a las visitas y al personal con respeto y consideración, apoyando un entorno heterogéneo e inclusivo. 9. Respetar los derechos de privacidad del personal y de los demás pacientes. • No tiene permitido usar cámaras, tablets, teléfonos ni otro equipo para tomar fotos, transmitir en vivo ni grabar (audio o video) cualquier atención o servicio médico que reciba sin la autorización de nuestro personal. • Únicamente se puede fotografiar o grabar a un paciente que esté solo o con sus visitas y familiares. 10. No traer ningún objeto de valor al hospital o enviarlo a casa después del ingreso. No nos hacemos responsables de sus pertenencias. Si no puede enviar sus objetos de valor a casa, hable con un miembro del personal para que los guarde. 11. Respetar la propiedad ajena y del hospital. 12. Mantener bajo el nivel de ruido para favorecer una recuperación tranquila. 13. Comportarse de manera respetuosa con los demás y no ponerlos en peligro, incluyendo: • NO beber alcohol, usar productos del tabaco ni consumir drogas recreativas. • NO tener conductas racistas ni discriminatorias. • NO ser agresivo ni violento. • NO gritar, usar lenguaje profano ni ofensivo. NYU Langone Health no acepta el abuso verbal ni físico hacia el personal. El incumplimiento de estas responsabilidades puede dar lugar a la expulsión del centro o al alta por motivos administrativos. Declaración de responsabilidades de las visitas En NYU Langone Health, reconocemos el rol que juegan las familias, las personas de apoyo y otras visitas en el proceso de recuperación, y le pedimos que colaboren con nosotros para crear un entorno seguro, respetuoso y que favorezca la recuperación. Responsabilidades de las visitas: 1. Leer y cumplir las directrices para visitas de NYU Langone Health. 2. No ir de visita si está enfermo. 3. Registrarse antes de entrar y usar una tarjeta de visita en todo momento. 4. Higienizarse las manos (es decir, lavárselas, usar desinfectante para manos) cuando llegue y cuando se vaya de la habitación del paciente. 5. Seguir las precauciones de aislamiento anunciadas en la puerta del paciente. 6. Hablar en voz baja para favorecer el descanso y la recuperación de nuestros pacientes. 7. Consultar con el enfermero del paciente antes de llevarle algún artículo, incluyendo comida y bebida. 8. En la medida de lo posible, permanecer en la habitación del paciente. 9. No tocar el equipo del paciente. 10. No darle medicamentos ni atender al paciente. 11. Cuidar sus pertenencias. NYU Langone Health no se hace responsable de la pérdida ni del extravío de objetos. 12. No tomar fotos de los pacientes, del personal ni del equipo. No se puede transmitir en vivo ni grabar (audio o video) ningún servicio médico ni la atención. 13. No se permite alcohol, drogas recreativas, tabaco ni armas en ningún centro de NYU Langone Health. 14. Abstenerse de usar lenguaje profano o conductas o lenguaje intimidatorios. NYU Langone Health no acepta el abuso verbal ni físico hacia el personal. A todas las visitas que interfieran en la atención de los pacientes, o cuyas conductas o acciones se consideren una amenaza para la seguridad del paciente o la del personal, se les puede pedir que se vayan y se pueden restringir o suspender los derechos de visita.


Page 1 of 3 Created: 5/2021 Surgery Referral Letters Surgery referral letters are one of the first steps to pursuing gender affirming surgery. Every patient is expected to submit the required letter(s) prior to their consultation appointment. Surgery cannot be scheduled until all letters have been received and meet the requirements outlined in this document. Letters that do not follow the format below will be returned for completion. Please show this document to the provider(s) writing your referral. *THE RECCOMMENDED CONTENT FOR MENTAL HEALTH LETTERS: (WPATH SOC7) 1. The patient’s general identifying characteristics; 2. Results of the psychosocial assessment, including all psychiatric diagnoses and accompanying psychiatric medications; 3. Duration of the professional’s relationship with the patient, including the type of evaluation and therapy or counseling to date; 4. An explanation that the criteria* for surgery have been met, and a brief description of the clinical rationale for supporting the patient’s request for surgery; 5. A statement about the fact that informed consent has been obtained from the patient; 6. A statement that the mental health professional is available for coordination of care and welcomes a phone call to establish this. In addition, we ask that your mental health provider assess and provide the following: 7. An explanation of the patient’s level of understanding of the surgery risks and benefits 8. Patient’s post operative recovery plan to ensure patient has considered what is needed for a safe recovery: adequate housing, social support, and financial resources. *CRITERIA FOR GENDER AFFIRMING SURGERY: (WPATH SOC V.7) 1. Persistent, well documented gender dysphoria; 2. Capacity to make fully informed decision and to consent for treatment; 3. Age of majority in a given country; 4. If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, they must be well controlled. In addition to the above, criteria for genital surgery must also include: 5. 12 continuous months of hormone therapy as appropriate to the patient’s gender goals (unless hormones are not clinically indicated for the individual); 6. 12 continuous months of living in a gender role that is congruent with their identity. Page 2 of 3 Created: 5/2021 MORE HELPFUL TIPS: • Make sure your letter is dated. Letters must be dated within a year of your surgery date. We will require updated letters if your original letter is dated over a year from your surgery date. • Make sure your letter is signed. Insurance companies will not accept electronic signatures. • Please note criteria and recommended content above is based on WPATH SOC 7 guidelines. Your insurance company may have their own coverage criteria. We encourage you to call the phone number on the back of your insurance card to verify. • Please submit separate letters for each procedure you are having. • Please have each provider write their own letter. A letter signed by multiple providers only counts as one letter. • Once you have all your letters, send us a MyChart message and attach letters. This will get them directly into your chart. You can also fax to 929 455 9390, but please confirm letters were received. Procedure Supporting Letters HRT Requirement Other Requirements Notes Breast Aug 1 mental health letter 1 hormone letter Yes Duration of hormone therapy requirement will vary depending on your insurance plan. Confirm with your insurance company If hormones are not clinically indicated for your care, your provider should note this in their support letter. Chest Masculinization 1 mental health letter No Confirm with your insurance company If you are on hormones, please provide letter Metoidoplasty 2 mental health letters 1 hormone letter 12 months Confirm with your insurance company If hormones are not clinically indicated for your care, your provider should note this in their support letter. Phalloplasty 2 mental health letters 1 hormone letter 12 months Confirm with your insurance company If hormones are not clinically indicated for your care, your provider should note this in their support letter. Vaginopalsty 2 mental health letters 1 hormone letter 12 months Confirm with your insurance company If hormones are not clinically indicated for your care, your provider should note this in their support letter. IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR NEED CLARIFICATION, PLEASE CONTACT OUR OFFICE AT 646 501 4449.


CARING FOR OUR ENVIRONMENT 2024Annual Sustainability ReportTABLE OFCONTENTSMessage from the Dean and CEO4About NYU Langone Health5Environmental Stewardship6Goals & Governance8Climate & Health 9Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions 10Our Pillars: Reduce Our Impact12Our Pillars:Increase Resiliency16Our Pillars: Create Healthy Environments18Our Pillars:Advocate for a Sustainable Healthcare Future204513M+ ft2Space Portfolio11.3MOutpatient Visits300+Locations51,000Employees in Total5,233Physicians and FacultyOUR CARE IN NUMBERSNYU Langone Health, one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, has a trifold mission to care, to teach, and to discover, which is achieved daily through an integrated academic culture devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research. At NYU Langone, we emphasize treating the whole person and not simply the disease. We are renowned for evidence based clinical care across a wide array of specialties, including cardiac and vascular care, neurology and neurosurgery, cancer, musculoskeletal care, pediatric services, and more.Our mission to advance science and improve healthcare through scientific discovery brings together outstanding scientists and clinical researchers—at both NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine—fostering highly collaborative, multidisciplinary investigations. Our scientists have access to state of the art technology from analytic chemistry and bioinformatics to tissue banking and genomics in more than 20 core facilities.New YorkTHE BRONXSTATENISLANDQUEENSNASSAUWESTCHESTERSUFFOLKConnecticutNew JerseyMANHATTANFAIRFIELDBERGENFloridaMIAMI DADEPALM BEACHBROWARDBROOKLYNMANHATTAN(1)NYU LangoneHospital—Long IslandNYU LangoneHospital—BrooklynLong Island Community Hospital (affiliate)(1)(3)Tisch HospitalNYU Langone Orthopedic HospitalKimmel Pavilion &Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street(1)As of July 2024Dear Community Members and Patients, At NYU Langone Health, our purpose is to deliver the best outcomes in patient care, education, and science, and we work every day to innovate and affect meaningful change throughout the institution and beyond. This includes how we care for the environment.I am happy to introduce our 2024 Sustainability Report that explores our proactive response to environmental risks—from addressing climate change driven environmental stressors that negatively impact health to reducing our environmental footprint by designing more efficient facilities and publishing research that explains the link between climate change and poor health outcomes. While we are proud of the many steps we have taken, we know we cannot stop here—caring for the environment requires our ongoing, collective effort. We will continue to collaborate with communities and health systems nationwide to advance the highest standard for sustainability in healthcare. Thank you for being part of this journey.Sincerely,Robert I. Grossman, MDDean and CEOMESSAGE FROM THE DEAN AND CEOABOUTNYU LANGONE HEALTH67A healthy planet means healthy people.We are committed to becoming a carbon neutral health system by 2050. At NYU Langone Health, caring for patients and communities extends to our care for the environment. Climate change is a global health issue, and it affects the livelihood of patients, communities, and staff. Flooding, wildfires, heatwaves, and other climate related hazards are becoming more intense, longer, and more frequent due to climate change. These hazards all carry significant health and economic impacts.Our work to significantly reduce our greenhouse gases will not only reduce the demand of natural resources through efficient operations and cleaner energy, but also build and support healthy and equitable communities. As we innovate and lead initiatives to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities, it is equally as important to leverage our voice and size to advocate for decarbonization throughout the healthcare value chain.Program Pillars NYU Langone’s sustainability program stands on four pillars to ultimately build a culture of sustainability within the organization and to embed these priorities as part of our everyday operations and decision making. The physical environment plays an important role in wellness and health outcomes, and this informs every aspect of our design. We use materials and furnishings that are free of chemicals of concern, provide views and access to nature, and maintain high levels of air filtration to ensure fresh air is continuously supplied.Vicki Match Suna, AIAExecutive Vice President and Vice Dean for Real Estate Development and FacilitiesReduce Our ImpactReduce our greenhouse gas emissions, environmental impact, energy, water, waste, and resource use. Create Healthy EnvironmentsDesign facilities that improve health and the environment, and promote healthy, sustainable behaviors. Conduct relevant research to support these efforts.Increase Resiliency Mitigate long term risk to our facilities and supply chains, and build better for the future.Advocate for a Sustainable Healthcare FutureProvide sustainability and climate resiliency leadership, join climate action, educate staff to inspire change & inform patients about the health risks driven by climate change.Committed to reduce carbon emissions by by 2019 as part of the NYC Carbon ChallengeLaunched system wide reprocessing program for single use clinical devicesIncluded sustainability and green building goals and standards in NYU Langone’s Design & Engineering Guidelines for the first timeManhattan Main Campus became the first U.S. Green Building Council PEER and LEED Platinum certified campus in the worldDesflurane eliminated from formulary to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from anesthetic gasesReleased first public environmental sustainability report Entered into partnership for 8MW of battery storage that provides support for the NYC energy grid transitionAchieved original NYC Carbon Challenge reduction goal ahead of schedule and expanded goal to by 2025Joined Health Care Without Harm Safer Chemicals Challenge to reduce the use of chemicals of concern in furniture, furnishings, and cleaning and medical productsBegan modernization and expansion of system wide recycling program, rolling out signage, thousands of new bins, and extensive staff educationJoined the U.S. Health Care Climate Council as the first New York City member and joined the International Health Care Challenge Set new goal to be a carbon neutral health system by 2050, with an interim goal of reduction by 2030ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP501,000 pounds of e waste recycled in 202385 environmental and energy awards to date11farmers markets hosted in 2023111,735 pounds of clinical single use devices collected for reprocessing in 20232,279metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions avoided from our OR ventilation setback program every year 35+ operating rooms that recycle rigid plastics220pounds of honey produced from our three rooftop bee hives 5 LEED certified buildings to date 630+indoor and outdoor bike racks installed for our staff and the community35,000 gallons of stormwater can be collected for the Science Building, which is filtered and reused for landscape irrigation and low flow toilets89Sustainability is the responsibility of all. In 2009, the Board of Trustees at NYU Langone Health formed a Sustainability Advisory Group to oversee environmental initiatives at the hospital. The Energy & Sustainability team is a part of NYU Langone’s Real Estate Development and Facilities department. Key Goals & CommitmentsHHS Health Sector Climate Pledge In 2022, NYU Langone joined the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Climate Pledge, along with other leading health systems around the country, to strengthen climate resiliency in healthcare. NYU Langone is among just a handful of health systems in New York State to join this pledge. Pledge commitments include: • Achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, publicly accounting for progress on this goal every year.• Designate an executive level lead for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and conduct a full GHG inventory including indirect emissions.• Develop a climate resilience plan for continuous operations, anticipating needs of community groups that experience disproportionate risk of climate related harm.NYC Carbon Challenge for HospitalsNYU Langone joined the NYC Carbon Challenge for hospitals in 2009 to support New York City’s climate goals and to align with other local health systems in accelerating climate progress. Under this voluntary leadership initiative we have established a building based carbon reduction goal by 2025 for owned and operated buildings in NYC. Key MembershipsUS Health Care Climate CouncilNYU Langone is a member of Health Care Without Harm’s (HCWH) U.S. Health Care Climate Council, a leadership body of hospitals and health systems committed to protecting their patients and employees from the health impacts of climate change and becoming anchors for resilient communities. Membership, which is by invitation, comprises 19 top health systems representing over 550 hospitals and 9,500 health centers in 45 states, with more than 1.2 million employees serving over 77 million patients annually. The Council requires members to commit to setting and publicly releasing goals and plans for each of three pillars of mitigation, resilience, and leadership. New York State Clean Green CampusesNYU Langone is part of the Clean Green Campuses network of colleges and universities that support clean energy projects and principles on campus, in the classroom, and in surrounding communities. As a member, we allocate resources to research, clean energy adoption, and sustainability practices for the NYU Grossman School of Medicine and NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine campuses.GOALS & GOVERNANCECLIMATE & HEALTHTIMELINE OF GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION GOALSClimate change is undermining not just the health of our planet, but the health of people everywhere. Global greenhouse gas emissions from human activities continue to increase, resulting in rapid warming and other large scale changes including rising sea levels, melting ice, ocean warming and acidification, and shifting rainfall patterns.1 These changes are worsening the physical and mental health of staff, patients, and our communities.The impacts of global warming are becoming more apparent every day. 2023 was the planet’s warmest year since global records began in 1850.2 Flooding, wildfires, heatwaves and other climate related hazards are becoming more intense, longer, and more frequent due to climate change. It is an established fact that climate change is harming physical, mental, spiritual, and community health and well being through higher rates of heat related illness, increasing cases of infectious and vector borne diseases, and declines in air, food, and water quality. Climate related hazards will continue to grow, increasing morbidity and mortality across all regions of the US.3 Many of the results of climate change are also contributing to homelessness, hunger, and disruptions to social norms, and exacerbating existing social inequities. The healthcare sector is both a significant contributor of the emissions fueling climate change and uniquely obligated to respond to its resulting public health impacts. NYU Langone’s response includes mitigating our environmental impact and adapting our health system to be able to provide care far into the future. It also means addressing public infrastructure resilience and community health. We understand that doing so can protect human health and improve health equity.Climate change drives key environmental and social impacts that may exacerbate diseases and negative health outcomes. The figure below shows those hazards and health impacts most relevant to NYU Langone Health and its patient populations. Reduction in NYC Buildings by 2025 Emissions IntensityCarbon Neutral Health System by 2050 Absolute Emissions Reduction in Total Scope 1 & 2 by 2025 Emissions IntensityGraphic adapted for NYU Langone Health from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and J. Patz and the California Department of Public Health’s Office of Climate Equity.1011Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions offers a multitude of benefits ranging from improving air quality in the communities we serve and increasing our resiliency, to supporting the local economy and making our buildings healthier and more comfortable for patients and staff.It is essential that NYU Langone measures and tracks its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, in both absolute and intensity terms, to make sure progress is being made against its goals and to identify the greatest opportunities for further reduction. GHG emissions are measured in metric tons of equivalent carbon dioxide (MT CO2e) and are classified in three scopes according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.4• Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources, such as fuel combustion in facilities or vehicles or fugitive emissions from other gases such as refrigerants or anesthetics.• Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy, such as electricity and steam.• Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. NYU Langone has grown tremendously in both geography and operations since establishing our first carbon reduction goal, which is why we have expanded our newest goals under the HHS pledge. Our current carbon neutrality goal applies to all of NYU Langone Health system in locations where we have operational control. As an interim goal, NYU Langone has committed to a reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity (MT CO2e/square feet) by 2030 from a 2021 baseline. As of the end of 2023, we have reduced emissions intensity by . We are also now undertaking a comprehensive Scope 3 inventory analysis. Having the full picture of the health system’s GHG emissions from all areas of activity will inform prioritization of long term decarbonization strategies. NYC Carbon ChallengeThe NYC Carbon Challenge is a voluntary leadership initiative of commercial, institutional, and non profit leaders who have committed to decarbonizing their properties. In 2009, NYU Langone joined the NYC Carbon Challenge for hospitals to support the city’s climate goals and to align with other local health systems to accelerate climate progress. In 2015, we achieved our first building energy carbon reduction goal of from the established 2005 baseline, four years ahead of schedule. Building on that success, NYU Langone signed on to an augmented goal of carbon reduction by 2025. According to the Mayor’s Office, the Carbon Challenge participants have together cut their annual emissions by more than 900,000 MT CO2e.5 As of the end of 2023, NYU Langone has reduced of its building based carbon emissions intensity as defined under the Challenge framework and inventory protocol for 6.27M square feet of NYC real estate, or nearly half of the institution’s total square footage. In 2023, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s central plant saw a major upgrade to replace end of life equipment. Our new state of the art magnetic bearing electric drive chillers are 40 more energy efficient than traditional chillers. New chilled water pumps are equipped with variable frequency drives, allowing real time adjustments to meet building cooling needs. These new additions are estimated to save 1,220,773 kWh and 353 tCO2e each year. These efforts along with the facility's upgraded combined heat and power plant enhances the campus’ resiliency to adapt to changing climates. 2023 NYU Langone Health Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions (MT CO2e) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2TOTAL EMISSIONS202,655 SCOPE 1Natural Gas: 38. Other Fuels: 0.Refrigerants: 4.Inhaled Anesthetic Gases: 5.Transportation: SCOPE 2Electricity: 43.District Steam: 6. OURGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1213NYU Langone Health’s sustainability program develops initiatives aimed at reducing our environmental impact such as responsible waste practices and reducing pollution and chemical use. It is a collaborative effort across the institution to implement best practices and build a culture of sustainability among staff.Building Energy Healthcare delivery and medical research are energy intensive practices due to strict indoor environmental requirements for health, safety, and infection prevention. NYU Langone has a diverse building portfolio, with hospital and research lab campuses representing nearly two thirds our total square footage and nearly of the institution’s Scope 1 & 2 emissions are from building energy use. It is essential that we tackle this significant source of emissions. Lowering energy usage will decrease our reliance on the energy grid and allow us to operate longer on backup power systems. It will also reduce our use of fossil fuels, which would improve the air quality in the communities we serve and reduce our contribution to climate change. By the end of 2023, we have reduced Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity by , despite a increase in overall square footage. Most of this reduction is driven by our building energy conservation and efficiency efforts, which is the backbone of our sustainability program. Our longstanding and robust energy management program focuses on resilient infrastructure design and operations. Since 2008, the energy program has achieved $76M in net energy savings with a return on investment. These savings were driven by system wide energy projects such as HVAC upgrades, LED retrofits, steam reduction projects, and plug load management, alongside deeper energy retrofits that increase the resiliency and reliability of our energy systems. We pair these high impact projects with continuous monitoring and enhanced building automation strategies to make sure that systems are functioning optimally. NYU Langone is also enrolled in the New York State ReCharge NY program offered by the New York Power Authority (NYPA). The institution receives roughly 7MW of equivalent power from NYPA of which half is sourced from State generated zero emissions hydro power. As part of the program, organizations accessing this lower cost power have made commitments such as remaining in the state, retaining employment, and making local investments in their business.OUR PILLARS:REDUCE OUR IMPACTNYU Langone holds annual protocol reviews and exercises on coastal storm preparedness to ensure all relevant staff understands their role during incidents. Pictured here is a staff training on deploying flood barriers on the Manhattan Main Campus. Our massive network of 127 flood barriers; 61 exterior flood doors, hatches and gates; and 51 dewatering pumps help harden the campus and protect the perimeter. ENERGY CONSERVATION & EFFICIENCY PROGRAMSOperating Room Unoccupied SetbacksReduce energy usage during hours of nonoperation using automation.PC Power ManagementDeploy computer sleep schedules to reduce wasted energy by an average of per device.LED LightingRetrofitted a total of 46,722 light fixtures saving 6.7M kWh and ensuring only LEDs are installed in new buildings.Auditing & Retro CommissioningImprove operations and enforce construction standards, all while meeting safety & reliability standards.Demand ResponseReduces electrical load to support the grid and prevent local blackouts.Reporting & AnalyticsMonitor the portfolio to identify operational issues or wasted energy that can be corrected.Building Automation SystemsDeveloped sophisticated sequences of operation and monitoring to optimize HVAC operations and energy usage.Linear Generator ProjectsInstall low carbon electrical generation assets with below utility power prices.NYU Langone Health Building Types(Square Feet) CLINICALAmbulatory Surgical Center: 11.Hospital: 31.Medical Office: 25. OTHEROther: 3. RESEARCH Dry Lab: 0.Wet Lab: 14. RESIDENTIAL Dormitory: 3.Multi Family: 6.Single Family: 0. OFFICE Office: 3.TOTAL SQUARE FEET 12,033,743 1415Responsible Waste Management We actively manage more than 10 waste streams to ensure waste does not end up in landfills unnecessarily. All waste disposal methods release GHG emissions and are considered a category under Scope 3. We focus on creating consistent, institution wide policies and programs that drive optimal and sustainable operations. Some key programs that delivered on waste reduction in 2023 include the following:Furniture Reuse The Real Estate Development and Facilities Interior Design team manages a furniture reuse program to ensure products like desks and chairs are used to its full potential. Rather than disposing broken furniture, the pieces are evaluated and, whenever possible, reupholstered, repaired or rejuvenated for reuse. In 2023, this program repaired 1,134 items across the institution, resulting in $2M+ cost savings versus if those items were purchased new. Single Use Medical Devices ReprocessingEligible items such as surgical instrumentation, certain catheters, compression sleeves, pulse oximeter sensors, and others, are collected for reprocessing. This is a closed loop system where select single use medical devices are sanitized and inspected for reuse using an FDA regulated process. In 2023, 111,735 lbs. of devices were collected for reprocessing and diverted from landfills. Greening the ORAt the NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, a team was launched to implement initiatives to embed sustainability best practices within the operating rooms. This team surveyed staff on waste training needs and conducted waste audits for various procedures. With this knowledge, new recycling infrastructure was placed within the PACU and ORs to divert pre incision waste from landfills, and continuous education on waste management practices was launched. At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, the “Go Green Team” is dedicated to strategizing and implementing initiatives that reduce overall waste and embed sustainability best practices within the operating rooms.Waste Anesthetic Gas Anesthetic gases are potent greenhouse gases by nature. To reduce their environmental footprint, the leadership in the Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care, and Pain Medicine minimizes its use of anesthetic gases with high global warming potentials. They removed desflurane, which has the highest global warming potential, from the formulary in 2021 (excluding affiliated locations). To further drive reductions, in 2024, the department began piloting the decommissioning of centralized nitrous oxide systems and transitioning to e cylinders on the anesthesia carts. Data shows that transitioning to this new practice will increase efficiency, minimize wasted nitrous oxide, and reduce associated greenhouse gas emissions. Transportation Air pollution emitted from transportation contributes to smog and poor air quality, which has negative impacts on the health and welfare of communities. Residents in urban cities are exposed to high levels of air pollution in the form of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) from combustion activity, including the burning of fuel in vehicles. Recent studies link ambient PM2.5 and ozone specifically caused by vehicle exhaust emissions to premature deaths. The impact of air pollution is particularly important to the communities we serve, especially for vulnerable populations with chronic upper respiratory illnesses such as asthma and COPD.At our specialty pharmacy center in Brooklyn, traditional Styrofoam coolers were replaced with coolers made from biodegradable cotton grown and manufactured in the U.S. This reduces the use of Styrofoam, which can take up to 500 years to degrade and pollutes the oceans.NYU Langone owns and operates a fleet of 38 ambulances, which respond to 98,000 calls and 65,000 patients each year to our hospitals. These vehicles run 24/7 and use gasoline and diesel to preserve life saving medications and equipment on board. This emits vehicle exhaust, affecting air quality in the communities we serve. Recognizing this impact, Emergency Services is upgrading their fleet with hyper efficient models that have lithium ion batteries. These batteries can power essential services on board, while reducing the need for engine idling and ultimately fine particulate emissions. With the support of $3M in federal and city grants, our fleet now includes two new hyper efficient ambulances and will introduce five more as existing vehicles reach the end of their lifetime. Our new hyper efficient ambulances are a welcomed addition to our fleet. They help provide lifesaving care to our patients all while significantly reducing fine particulate emissions to improve air quality in the communities we serve.Bret Rudy, MDExecutive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations for NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn1617In addition, we saw the commissioning and startup of two 4MW NYC based battery projects operated by our vendor partner, for which NYU Langone is the sole off taker of the utility credits generated. The projects help stabilize the grid during peak hours of demand while also providing cleaner power to the benefit of our communities. It also provides improved grid resiliency as more intermittent renewable energy sources are added to the power mix in New York over time. NYU Langone is proud to participate in this project and to demonstrate the important role that large end users, such as hospitals, can play in the move towards a low carbon future for all. GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONSUSGBC Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED)Science Building Platinum Kimmel Pavilion & Hassenfeld Children's Hospital Platinum Perlmutter Cancer Center—Sunset Park CertifiedAmbulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill GoldNYU Langone Ambulatory Care Garden City SilverUSGBC Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER)Manhattan Main Campus PlatinumWELL Building StandardOne Park Avenue, 4th & 5th FloorsSilverDesigning Better for the Future We are committed to designing greener buildings with a focus on lowering embodied carbon, using healthier materials with less chemicals, high quality indoor air, and reducing the energy, water and waste footprint once in operations. To ensure that projects take these goals into consideration in planning and design, NYU Langone has integrated them into our design guidelines, which includes a U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED certification requirement and reference to best practices from the WELL Building Standard, the CDC’s Fitwel standard, and the International Institute for Sustainable Laboratories. As of the end of 2023, NYU Langone has certified five projects comprising 1.58M square feet of space.We also want to ensure that our spaces promote human health and wellbeing and are designed for occupant comfort. Research shows significant cognitive and mood benefits for patients and staff from views of nature, daylighting, access to areas of respite, art, natural elements and biophilic design in buildings. NYU Langone incorporate these elements along with lighting and acoustical considerations for our new and retrofitted spaces. We also focus on maximizing green spaces including terraces, courtyards and green roofs that all use native trees and plants. Our most recently completed green roof at 540 First Avenue adds 3,207 square feet to the existing 20,000 square feet of green roof space on our Manhattan Main Campus.Physical Adaptation Most of our buildings still have a 20 50+ year expected useful life and they must be adapted to withstand a new climate reality. We use forward looking data to inform our approach and make changes throughout our infrastructure. We invest heavily in hardening our campuses to extreme weather events, especially floods. This includes raising critical infrastructure—utility, clinical care, research and IT—above expected flood levels, installing green roofs to slow down stormwater runoff, backup power systems, and onsite renewable, low carbon or combined heat and power generation. For new facilities, NYU Langone has been doing extensive upfront site hazard assessments and planning growth and development away from high risk areas like flood zones and incorporating adaptation measures from the outset.Supporting Energy Grid Resiliency As we pursue opportunities to reduce GHG emissions from our own facilities, it is equally as important for us to support efforts to decarbonize the energy grid for the benefit and resiliency of the communities we serve. Electrical grid reliability is essential to the operations of NYU Langone facilities and the avoidance of brownouts and blackouts in our neighborhoods. This is why NYU Langone has committed to reducing its loads during times of high grid demand, when the grid is also at its dirtiest, through participation in utility and State demand response programs. Our facilities teams have developed sophisticated procedures to reduce electricity use during these events and rely more on onsite generation to reduce demand on the grid. We also have invested heavily in upgrading our generators with advanced pollution controls. These efforts have led NYU Langone to become one of the biggest and most successful demand response participants in New York City, and has afforded us significant economic benefit from reductions in energy costs. It also has the benefit of keeping the facilities operations team well practiced in how to deal with an actual emergency event, were it to occur. OUR PILLARS:INCREASE RESILIENCYHospitals, as critical infrastructure, will bear the burden of the climate driven health impacts and face pressure to maintain access to care during critical threats. A focus on enterprise is paramount for NYU Langone Health and we continue to lead by example on this issue in healthcare.Over the past decade, NYU Langone has put into place comprehensive measures designed to ensure business continuity during extreme weather events and to prepare for the risks to our institution, employees and patients associated with climate change. Resiliency is incorporated into the way we design and construct our buildings, our business operations, our supply chain, and our long term strategies.The Joseph S. & Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill earned LEED Gold certification in 2023. This facility is designed with healing and sustainability in mind, and to use less water and less energy than a traditionally built facility. Materials like ceiling tiles and rebar were selected based on environmental criteria such as high recycled content, reduced chemical use, and local sourcing and manufacturing. This facility optimizes indoor and outdoor air quality by using airflow sensors and cleaner materials and by encouraging low carbon modes of transportation. Learn more about the building’s sustainable attributes here. 1819Members of the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s Floral Park ambulance crew assisting recovering patients after a snowstorm. While removing snow may seem like a small task, it can make the difference for patients to meet their basic needs and get to critical medical appointments. OUR PILLARS:CREATE HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTSNYU Langone Health seeks to create a vital and healing environment within our facilities and throughout the operational supply chain. Prioritizing better and healthier products and practices can minimize exposure to environmental pollutants that may impact human health.Building Healthy Interiors Care and consideration for patients are interwoven into the design of our spaces. Where possible, all furniture and furnishings are free of chemicals of concern including formaldehyde, flame retardants, per and polyfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and antimicrobials. In 2023, of our spend on furniture and furnishings in hospitals met these criteria. Supplier claims on the avoidance of these chemicals are also third party verified to ensure accuracy.Improving Air Quality Good indoor air quality minimizes your exposure to indoor allergens and pollutants. We maintain high levels of filtration to ensure superior indoor air quality for our patients and staff. Permanent air handling units use filters with a minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) of 13. All occupied spaces receive increased outdoor air by at least above the minimum rates required by industry standards. For all new construction projects and renovations, air pollutants like particulates, ozone, VOCs and odors, are flushed out prior to occupancy.Access to Local, Sustainable Foods Healthy eating plays an integral role in the healing process. NYU Langone Health is committed to providing the healthiest and freshest food options to patients, guests, and staff. We have a Universal Patient Menu at all five hospital campuses serving lean proteins like chicken, turkey and salmon. We have plant based options available at every meal period, and we use red meat sparingly. Within our cafeterias, we serve seasonal and plant based proteins like beans, lentils, and whole grains. The use of red meat is also limited by using it as a flavoring agent, rather than as the center of a dish. Our chefs highlight exciting new plant based recipes like crab cakes made with hearts of palm and other sustainable seafood options. It is also important to increase access to local, sustainable foods for staff, students, and patients. Within our hospitals, over of our food and beverage spend is on locally grown and produced foods and goods. We also host farmers’ markets and tables at our campuses. The Table Food Pantry of the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone partner with Brooklyn Grange to bring local, sustainably grown produce to the communities we serve.To increase biodiversity and resiliency of our neighborhoods we host several rooftops bee hives as part of our urban honeybee program. Honeybees play a critical role in our food system through their role as global pollinators affecting a third of our food supply. Especially in cities where the natural habitat for bees is lacking, it is important for us to build these habitats and host colonies that will help maintain diverse flora and fauna. Since 2022, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island hosts a seasonal farmers market featuring over 10 local farms and businesses to support the communities we work and live in. We invite family run businesses, promote products that are organic and sustainably made, and feature vendors that have social missions like providing meaningful employment and vocational and educational opportunities for people with disabilities.We are incredibly proud that our market is for the community, by the community. We host local farms and businesses in NYC and Long Island. Now this year, we even launched our Feeding Forward initiative with the Nassau County Department of Health where staff can donate clothing, canned foods and children’s items to a local pantry in Hempstead.Joseph Greco, MDExecutive Vice President and Chief of Hospital Operations at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island2021Leveraging Our VoiceWe want to use our trusted voice to influence policy and advocate for support for the healthcare industry to decarbonize. In October 2023, NYU Langone Health participated in meetings and learning sessions with congressional members and Administration staff and agencies. Organized by Health Care Without Harm, these sessions enable us to discuss how federal level engagement can support shared priorities on climate and healthcare. Led by our Food & Nutrition Services Department, NYU Langone submitted comments to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in support of the draft FDA, USDA and EPA Proposed National Strategy to Reduce U.S. Food Loss and Waste in February 2024. We shared our ongoing efforts to source local and sustainable foods and to reduce food waste in operations while recognizing the need for more government support for composting and recycling infrastructure.Climate change is a global issue, but the solutions must be rooted within our businesses and communities. It is crucial for NYU Langone Health to work alongside industry, NGOs and governmental agencies to accelerate climate progress. Impactful CollaborationsWe believe in the collaborative power to shift the standards of sustainability within healthcare. We are part of the U.S. Health Care Climate Council, whose members collectively promote resiliency in their communities and advocate for climate smart policies at the local, state, and federal level.We also serve on a technical expert panel for a new initiative launched by the American Hospital Association to address the impacts of climate in the communities that hospitals serve. Over the next two years, we will work alongside our peers to provide strategic guidance and subject matter expertise to ultimately empower communities and health systems to partner and collaborate when approaching environmental and climate challenges. We are integrating these learnings on climate and health into our own community health needs assessment process, which would be shared in our next community service plan in 2025. To support industry wide healthcare decarbonization, NYU Langone is a member of our group purchasing organization’s (GPO) Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Advisory Council. We help guide and provide insight for the GPO to implement best practices for more sustainable and low carbon supply chains. The adopted environmental practices would are available to any member hospital, expanding the reach of the group’s efforts.Building a Culture of SustainabilityIt is important to encourage industry participation by sharing our best practices and lessons learned in our pursuit of our sustainability goals. In 2023, NYU Langone participated and contributed to several public initiatives share our journey on climate resiliency. This included speaking at several national conferences, presenting in a webinar hosted by the HHS Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response, and collaborating with the HHS Office of Climate Change and Health Equity on a resiliency case study to be published with their updated U.S. Climate Resilience Toolkit.In April 2024, NYU Grossman School of Medicine completed its first Planetary Health Report Card, a metric based tool for evaluating and improving planetary health content in health professional schools. This student driven initiative allows the institution to benchmark its sustainability performance, and to investigate further integration of climate health topics into the school’s curriculum. In its debut, we ranked 19th out of 53 schools.The theme of our 2024 Health And… annual conference series hosted by the Department of Population Health was on Climate Action. This conference brought together policymakers, practitioners, and community members to explore cutting edge approaches to addressing the interface of climate change, healthcare, and health. OUR PILLARS:ADVOCATE FOR A SUSTAINABLE HEALTHCARE FUTUREIn 2024, NYU Langone celebrated Earth Month by giving back to our communities’ parks and waterways by hosting our first ever park beautification event. Staff and their families volunteered at local city park to plant native plants, remove weeds and spread wood chips. Recreational spaces like parks and waterways are an important part of our neighborhoods. They are central hubs for residents to meet with one another, and to be outdoors and enjoy nature. These public spaces also promote biodiversity and provide a habitat for native species to thrive alongside in our cities.Climate change affects public health and our ability to provide care. Our 8th annual Health And...conference focused on climate action to underscore the urgency of the topic and to harness momentum on several important initiatives occurring here at NYU Langone, across NYC, and federally. Cross sectoral collaboration is essential to bring about the change we know is needed to mitigate and adapt to the worst impacts of climate change.Lorna Thorpe, PhD, MPHChair of the Department of Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine2223References 1 , 3 Avery, et al, 2023. (2023). Fifth National Climate Assessment. U.S. Global Change Research Program. doi.org/10.7930/NCA5.2023.FM 2 NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information. (2024). 2023 was the warmest year in the modern temperature record. NOAA. www.climate.gov/news features/featured images/2023 was warmest year modern temperature record4 GHG Protocol. (2024). FAQ. GHG Protocol. ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/2022 12/FAQ.pdf5 NYC Mayor’s Office of Climate & Environmental Justice. (2023). NYC Carbon Challenge. NYC MOCEJ. climate.cityofnewyork.us/initiatives/nyc carbon challengeREFERENCES & CITATIONSPhotography CreditsPageCredit1Haley Ricciardi2Jocelyn Gan (top left, bottom right), Adam Watt (middle left), Lorenzo Bev ilaqua (bottom left). Haley Ricciardi (top and middle right)4John Abbott6Haley Ricciardi (top left), Rene Perez (bottom left), Jeff Goldberg (top right), Fred Verkhovsky (bottom right)11Joe Carrotta13Jocelyn Gan14Haley Ricciardi15Atiba Grant (top), Axay Shah (bottom)16Joe Carrotta19Zach Esposito (top left), Jay Brady (bottom left), Haley Ricciardi (right)20Lorenzo Bevilaqua23Juliana Thomas (top), Jocelyn Gan (bottom)Department of Real Estate Development and FacilitiesThis report was prepared by the energy & sustainability team. sustainability@nyulangone.orgnyulangone.org/sustainability


tDCS Clinical Program TeamZLeigh Charvet, PhDDirector, tDCS Programhttps:// nyulangone.org/ doctors/ 1356785398/ leigh e charvethttps:// med.nyu.edu/ research/ charvet lab/Allan George, MAtDCS program administrator, clinicianhttps:// med.nyu.edu/ research/ charvet lab/ team Carrie Sammarco, DNPMedical Directorhttps:// nyulangone.org/ doctors/ 1255358271/ carrie l sammarcoDavid BesprozvanytDCS Clinicianhttps:// med.nyu.edu/ research/ charvet lab/ teamtDCS Clinical Program Team, cont'dZGiuseppina Pilloni, PhDBiomedical Engineer/ Rehabilitation Specialisthttps:// med.nyu.edu/ faculty/ giuseppina pillonihttps:// med.nyu.edu/ research/ charvet lab/R. Erik Charlson, MDConsultant Neurologist/ Psychiatristhttps:// nyulangone.org/ doctors/ 1265636997/ robert w charlsonMarilyn Moffat, DPTConsultant Physical Therapisthttps:// steinhardt.nyu.edu/ people/ marilyn moffatJeana Gratch, MBADivision Administrator


NYU Langone Hospital 560 First Avenue, SK 133 New York, NY, 10016 T 866 486 9847 F 212 263 8806 NYU Tisch Hospital/NYU Orthopedic Hospital Financial Assistance Application Enclosed:PROCESS FOR APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE: 1.Complete the enclosed application in its entirety2.Return the completed application within 30 days to:NYU Hospitals Center Financial Counseling Services 560 First Avenue, SK 133 New York, NY 10016 3.After all items are received your request will be reviewed and you will be notified in writing of ourdetermination within 30 daysIMPORTANT: This financial assistance application is for Hospital Charges only and does not cover doctor or other professionalchargesPrivate room or other personal item charges are not covered by the Financial Assistance ProgramCosmetic procedure charges are not covered by the Financial Assistance ProgramElective services covered by insurance not accepted by NYU Hospitals Center are not covered by the FinancialAssistance ProgramIf you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact us at (866)486 9847. Sincerely, Financial Counseling Services YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION Financial Assistance Application (Attachment A) I.Patient DemographicsPatient Name:______________________________________________________________________________________________ (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB) Guarantor Name:____________________________________________________________________________________________ (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB) Address:___________________________________________________________________________________________________ (Street) (City) (State) (Zip code) Home Telephone:_____________________ Work Telephone:______________________ Cell Telephone:____________________ II.Household InformationPatient Marital Status: (Circle One) Married Single Separated Total Number in Household: Spouse & Dependent Name(s): (Attach separate sheet for additional dependents) Date of Birth Social Security Number (NOT REQUIRED) III.Current Employment InformationEmployee Name (Patient, Guarantor, Spouse, or Dependent): Employer Name, Address and Dates of Employment Hire Date: Hire Date: Hire Date: IV.Insurance Information (Attach separate sheets for additional Insurance information)Are you covered by or are you applying for any health insurance (Including Medicaid, Child Health Plus, Essential Plan , or Qualified Health Plan)?YES NO If yes, please explain: (include insurance company name, address, telephone number, policy/group number and subscriber information) V.Other InformationIs treatment the result of an accident or injury? YES NO If Yes, date of accident: Brief description of the accident: Street, City and State of accident: Will a homeowner’s or liability insurance be involved? YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION For Administrative use only Facility________________________ Account #_____________________ Med.Rec#_____________________ For Administrative use only Patient Type _____________________ Amount of W/O $__________________ Method of Calculation ______________ Financial Assistance Application (Attachment B) VI. Financial StatementEnter totals for Patient, Guarantor, Spouse and Dependents: (Add additional sheets as necessary)MONTHLY INCOME: AMOUNT: Gross Wages, Salaries, Tips $ Social Security $ Disability $ Unemployment $ Child Support $ Alimony/Maintenance $ Rental Income $ Property Income $ Pension $ Dividends/Interest $ Other Income (Specify): $ $ $ CERTIFICATION I certify that the above information is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I understand that fraudulent or misleading information will make me ineligible for any financial assistance. I authorize the release of any information needed to verify the information provided and for billing and collections in compliance with applicable federal and state laws. Further, I will make application for any assistance (Medicaid, Medicare, Insurance, etc.) which may be available for payment of my hospital charges, and I will take any action reasonably necessary to obtain such assistance and will assign or pay to the hospital the amount recovered for hospital charges. I understand that this application is made so that the hospital can determine my eligibility for Financial Assistance based on the established criteria on file in the hospital. In addition, I agree to provide additional information as requested in order to determine eligibility. I agree to inform NYU Hospitals of any change in my needs, insurance eligibility, income, property, living arrangements or address as they occur. Signature of Applicant:___________________________________________ Date_________________ Signature of Interviewer:_________________________________________ Date _________________ YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION


Our experienced team offers a range of services for people receiving gender affirming care.ZTransgender Health TeamBack to Transgender HealthTransgender Health DoctorsOur experts collaborate across specialties to provide transgender health services at NYU LangonePlastic and Reconstructive SurgeryRachel Bluebond Langner, MDOriana D. Cohen, MD Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD DDS UrologyLee C. Zhao, MDBobby B. Najari, MD GynecologyChristopher N Eswar, MD Lauren E. Stewart, MDRuth A. Tessler, MD ZOur Support StaffOur team also includes social worker, nurse practitioner, nurse navigator, and patient liaison, all of whom specialize in care for transgender people.Andres Cazares, LCSW, Social WorkerPronouns: He/ TheyAndres Cazares has more than a decade of experience working with and advocating for the transgender and gender expansive communities, specifically in healthcare settings. With a deep understanding of the increasingly difficult challenges faced by the transgender community, Andres focuses his efforts on addressing barriers to care and preparing patients for gender affirming surgery. Andres's collaborative approach is central to his practice. He works closely with patients to develop personalized postoperative plans that prioritize safety and well being, while also offering patients the necessary resources and support.Jo Maulbeck LCSW, Social WorkerPronoun: They/ SheJo Maulbeck has over ten years of experience providing LGBTQ services within physical health, mental health, and substance use settings. Jo specializes in working with complex trauma and is passionate about providing trauma informed care. They work collaboratively with patients to consider the mind body connection and help them establish an emotional wellness plan that will support recovery and promote healing. Jo embodies both a Whole Person and Systems approach in their work, and advocates for patient needs to ensure that all patients have the tools, resources, and support systems they need to move through each stage of the surgical process.Rey Daigle, BSN, Nurse NavigatorPronoun: TheyRey Daigle is the nurse coordinator for the gender affirming surgery program at NYU Langone Health. They provide education to patients pursuing gender affirming genital and chest surgery on pre surgical preparation, recovery, as well as providing post operative care. Rey works collaboratively with the multidisciplinary surgical team to provide post procedure care and support, including dilation support following Ztvaginoplasty. As a nurse and student midwife, Rey is committed to providing person centered care to the trans community. They previously worked in utilization management at Amida Care, and as a public health homecare nurse at VNS Health.Katie Fisher, DNP, MFA Nurse PractitionerPronouns: She/ AnyKatie Fisher is a nurse working with patients in the pre and post operative period. Prior to joining the team, she worked in HIV testing and counseling, helping patients get connected to care and treatment on the same day they were diagnosed. She also worked in New York City?s only LGBTQ+ shelter for young adults. Before beginning her 10 year career in health care, Katie received an MFA in painting which continues to inform her nursing practice.Rox Javadi Kashani, Patient NavigatorPronoun: He/ TheyRox is a patient navigator with over 10 years of experience working with LGBTQ+ community. Rox welcomes patients to the practice, offering resources and guides them on readiness for their gender affirming surgery consultation. Before joining the team Rox worked in HIV and infectious diseases as a care manager and patient advocate for maturing LGBTQ+ population. He was also a counselor for homeless LGBTQ+ youth for many years, and volunteers when possible. Kevin Moore, BSN, RN, LGBTQ+ Clinical Coordinator and Patient LiaisonPronoun: HeKevin Moore is a registered nurse with a background in emergency and trauma care, critical care, and the postanesthesia care unit. He helps patients navigate care at NYU Langone, and guides them in understanding how to prepare for surgery and what to expect afterwards. He works with doctors, nurses, social workers, physical therapists, and specialists to ensure all of our patients? care needs are met.


Executive Summary NYU Langone Hospital is submitting this Administrative Review Certificate of Need application for the consolidation of its Transplant services to a central location. NYU Langone Hospital is certified to provide the following transplant services: • Transplant Bone Marrow • Transplant Heart Adult • Transplant Heart Pediatric • Transplant Kidney • Transplant Liver Currently, patients access Transplant services at the following locations: • NYU Langone Rivergate Transplant Clinic located at 401 East 34th Street, New York, NY 10016. This Article 28 Extension Clinic is licensed to provide Medical Services Primary Care. • NYU Langone Rivergate Transplant Extension Clinic located at 317 East 34th Street, 8th floor, New York, NY 10016. This Article 28 Extension Clinic is licensed to provide Medical Services Primary Care. • NYU Langone Hospital’s main campus at 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016. The Transplant Institute aims to consolidate transplant services for liver, lung and heart under one umbrella in a central location, the 3rd floor of the Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) on NYU Langone Hospital’s Manhattan campus (550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016). The Transplant Institute will provide transplant patients and donors with comprehensive education, support, and screening programs. HCC is currently a mixed use building and the NYU Langone Health Transplant Institute space will be an Article 28 Facility. The proposed scope of work consists of approximately 12,772 departmental square feet that will be fully renovated to accommodate the new program. The Transplant program will consist of the following components: ▪ Patient waiting and reception ▪ (18) exam rooms ▪ (1) pulmonary function tests room (PFT) ▪ (3) phlebotomy stations ▪ (1) vital signs assessment alcoves ▪ (1) admin/nurse station with (4) positions ▪ Clean supply, soiled holding, environment services closet, and storage room ▪ (9) physician offices, (2) physicians shared offices, (1) MD touchdown (2) MA Touchdowns, (2) Staff Touchdown, (2) Admin. rooms, (1) Admin. shared room, (2) Medical Director’s Offices, (1) Staff Workroom, (1) Education. ▪ (1) Research Lab, (1) Lab Storage ▪ Staff lounge and lockers ▪ (2) public toilets, (4) patient toilets, (2) staff toilets Please note that a Health Equity Impact Assessment has been prepared and will be submitted in support of this Administrative Review Certificate of Need application. Also, please note that the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY) will review the architectural components of this application. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 1 (Revised 11/2018) Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 CON Forms Regarding Environmental issues Contents: Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 Environmental Assessment DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 2 (Revised 11/2018) Environmental Assessment Part I. The following questions help determine whether the project is "significant" from an environmental standpoint. Yes No 1.1 If this application involves establishment, will it involve more than a change of name or ownership only, or a transfer of stock or partnership or membership interests only, or the conversion of existing beds to the same or lesser number of a different level of care beds? 1.2 Does this plan involve construction and change land use or density? 1.3 Does this plan involve construction and have a permanent effect on the environment if temporary land use is involved? 1.4 Does this plan involve construction and require work related to the disposition of asbestos? Part II. If any question in Part I is answered “yes” the project may be significant, and Part II must be completed. If all questions in Part II are answered “no” it is likely that the project is not significant Yes No 2.1 Does the project involve physical alteration of ten acres or more? 2.2 If an expansion of an existing facility, is the area physically altered by the facility expanding by more than and is the total existing and proposed altered area ten acres or more? 2.3 Will the project involve use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater to ground or surface water in excess of 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.4 If an expansion of an existing facility, will use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater by the facility increase by more than and exceed 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.5 Will the project involve parking for 1,000 vehicles or more? 2.6 If an expansion of an existing facility, will the project involve a or greater increase in parking spaces and will total parking exceed 1000 vehicles? 2.7 In a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project entail more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.8 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 100,000 square feet? 2.9 In a city, town or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project entail more than 240,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.10 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 240,000 square feet? 2.11 In a locality without any zoning regulation about height, will the project contain any structure exceeding 100 feet above the original ground area? 2.12 Is the project wholly or partially within an agricultural district certified pursuant to Agriculture and Markets Law Article 25, Section 303? 2.13 Will the project significantly affect drainage flow on adjacent sites? DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 3 (Revised 11/2018) 2.14 Will the project affect any threatened or endangered plants or animal species? 2.15 Will the project result in a major adverse effect on air quality? 2.16 Will the project have a major effect on visual character of the community or scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community? 2.17 Will the project result in major traffic problems or have a major effect on existing transportation systems? 2.18 Will the project regularly cause objectionable odors, noise, glare, vibration, or electrical disturbance as a result of the project's operation? 2.19 Will the project have any adverse impact on health or safety? 2.20 Will the project affect the existing community by directly causing a growth in permanent population of more than five percent over a one year period or have a major negative effect on the character of the community or neighborhood? 2.21 Is the project wholly or partially within, or is it contiguous to any facility or site listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or any historic building, structure, or site, or prehistoric site, that has been proposed by the Committee on the Registers for consideration by the New York State Board on Historic Preservation for recommendation to the State Historic Officer for nomination for inclusion in said National Register? 2.22 Will the project cause a beneficial or adverse effect on property listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places or on property which is determined to be eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places by the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation? 2.23 Is this project within the Coastal Zone as defined in Executive Law, Article 42? If Yes, please complete Part IV. Part III. Yes No 3.1 Are there any other state or local agencies involved in approval of the project? If so, fill in Contact Information to Question 3.1 below. Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 4 (Revised 11/2018) Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.2 Has any other agency made an environmental review of this project? If so, give name, and submit the SEQRA Summary of Findings with the application in the space provided below. Yes No Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.3 Is there a public controversy concerning environmental aspects of this project? If yes, briefly describe the controversy in the space below. Yes No Part IV. Storm and Flood Mitigation Definitions of FEMA Flood Zone Designations Flood zones are geographic areas that the FEMA has defined according to varying levels of flood risk. These zones are depicted on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map. Each zone reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area. Please use the FEMA Flood Designations scale below as a guide to answering all Part IV questions regardless of project location, flood and or evacuation zone. Yes No 4.1 Is the proposed site located in a flood plain? If Yes, indicate classification below and provide the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance). Moderate to Low Risk Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, flood insurance is available to all property owners and renters in these zones: B and X Area of moderate flood hazard, usually the area between the limits of the 100 year and 500 year floods. Are also used to designate base floodplains of lesser hazards, such as areas protected by levees from 100 year flood, or shallow flooding areas with average depths of less than one foot or drainage areas less than 1 square mile. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 5 (Revised 11/2018) C and X Area of minimal flood hazard, usually depicted on FIRMs as above the 500 year flood level. High Risk Areas Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: A Areas with a annual chance of flooding and a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Because detailed analyses are not performed for such areas; no depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. AE The base floodplain where base flood elevations are provided. AE Zones are now used on new format FIRMs instead of A1 A30. A1 30 These are known as numbered A Zones (e.g., A7 or A14). This is the base floodplain where the FIRM shows a BFE (old format). AH Areas with a annual chance of shallow flooding, usually in the form of a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. AO River or stream flood hazard areas, and areas with a or greater chance of shallow flooding each year, usually in the form of sheet flow, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Average flood depths derived from detailed analyses are shown within these zones. AR Areas with a temporarily increased flood risk due to the building or restoration of a flood control system (such as a levee or a dam). Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements will apply, but rates will not exceed the rates for unnumbered A zones if the structure is built or restored in compliance with Zone AR floodplain management regulations. A99 Areas with a annual chance of flooding that will be protected by a Federal flood control system where construction has reached specified legal requirements. No depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. High Risk Coastal Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: Zone V Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. No base flood elevations are shown within these zones. VE, V1 30 Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. Undetermined Risk Area Yes No Zone Description DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 6 (Revised 11/2018) D Areas with possible but undetermined flood hazards. No flood hazard analysis has been conducted. Flood insurance rates are commensurate with the uncertainty of the flood risk. 4.2 Are you in a designated evacuation zone? If Yes, the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance) shall be submitted with the application. If yes which zone is the site located in? 4.3 Does this project reflect the post Hurricane Lee, and or Irene, and Superstorm Sandy mitigation standards? If Yes, which floodplain? 100 Year 500 Year The Elevation Certificate provides a way for a community to document compliance with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. http://www.fema.gov/media library data/20130726 1437 20490 3457/f_053_elevationcertificate_jan13.pdf New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) Schedule 6 CON Form Regarding Architectural/Engineering Submission Contents: o Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) Architectural Submission Requirements for Contingent Approval and Contingency Satisfaction Schedule applies to all projects with construction, including Articles 28, 36 & 40, i.e., Hospitals, D&TCs, RHCFs, CHHAs, LTHHCPs and Hospices. Instructions • Provide Narrative using format below. • Provide Architect/Engineering Certification Form List of Architectural or Engineering Certification Forms o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation for Projects That Will Be Self Certified. Self Certification Is Not an Option for Full Review Projects, Projects over $15 Million, or Projects Requiring a Waiver (PDF) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation Projects to Be Reviewed by DOH or DASNY. (PDF) (Not to Be Submitted with Self Certification Projects) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Completed Projects (PDF) o Architect's or Engineer's Letter of Certification for Inspecting Existing Buildings (PDF) • Provide FEMA BFE Certificate (Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes) o FEMA BFE Certificate 11Feb2020.pdf • Functional Space Program: A record of the key environment of care considerations and facility functional and operational parameters that drive the space program for a project. Note: The governing body or its delegate develops the functional program, which is intended to inform the designers of record, authority having jurisdiction, and users of the facility. The size and complexity of the project will determine the length and complexity of the functional program. • Provide Architecture/Engineering Drawings in PDF format for review. Refer to Electronic Review Guidance Document for instructions for providing drawings for CON review. • Provide Physicist’s Report and the supporting information including drawings, details and supporting information. o Physicist's Letter of Certification (PDF) • Required attachments must be submitted as separate documents and labeled accordingly. • If any of the attachments require to be updated, provide an updated Schedule 6 form with the revised dates indicated on the form, in the date column. • Do not combine the narrative, A/E Cert Form and FEMA BFE Certificate into one document. • Refer to the Contingent Approval or Contingency Satisfaction for Submission Table requirements listed below. Format • Refer to “NYSDOH and DASNY Electronic Drawing Submission Guidance for CON Reviews” located on the NYSDOH Website. (Drawing files less than 100 MB can be uploaded into one file and bookmarked in PDF format.) “Architecture/Engineering Narrative” Narrative shall include but not limited to the following information. Please address all items in the narrative located in the response column. Incomplete responses will not be accepted. Description Original Schedule 6 Date:12/8/2023 Revised Schedule 6 Date: Click or tap to enter a date. Has this project received Contingent Approval or State Hospital Code Approvals? No If so, what is the original CON number? Click or tap here to enter text. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) Intent/Purpose: Site Location: 3rd floor of the existing Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) on the main NYU Langone Health campus, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016. Brief description of current facility, including Facility Type: The HCC Building is a mixed use 270,000 SF fifteen story high rise building with healthcare and business occupancies. The space is an existing business occupancy consisting of doctor’s offices of approximately 10,542 departmental gross square feet that will relocate to another floor within this building. Brief description of proposed facility: The proposed work consists of approximately 12,772 departmental gross square feet of the 16,192 floor gross square footage 3rd floor of the existing HCC Building that will be fully renovated to accommodate the new business occupancy program, which is less than of the building area Location of proposed spaces or spaces. (Occupancy type for each occupied space.) Business Occupancy Indicate if mixed occupancies, multiple occupancies and or separated occupancies. Please describe the required smoke and fire separations between occupancies: This floor will be Business Occupancy with incidental use spaces. This floor is separated from other floors and occupancies with 2 hour fire rated construction. If this is an existing facility, is it currently a licensed Article 28 Facility? Yes Is this facility being converted from a Non Article 28 Facility to an Article 28 Facility. No Relationship of spaces conforming with Article 28 space and Non Article 28 space: Non Article 28 Spaces are located on separate floors within the facility and are separated by 2 Hour fire rated construction List all Exceptions to the NYSDOH referenced standards. (Also, to be noted on the exceptions portion of the Architecture/Engineering Certification Form. No Exceptions List all Requests for equivalencies. (Also, to be noted on the exceptions portion of the Architecture/Engineering Certification Form. No equivalencies are noted. Does the project involve heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, water supply, and fire protection systems that involve modification or alteration of clinical space, services or equipment such as operating rooms, treatment, procedure rooms, and intensive care, cardiac care , other special care units (such as airborne infection isolation rooms and protective environment rooms), laboratories and special procedure rooms, patient or resident rooms and or other spaces used by residents of residential health care facilities on a daily basis? If so, please describe below. Click or tap here to enter text. Choose an item. Yes Provide brief description of the existing building systems within the proposed space and overall building systems, including HVAC systems, electrical, fire protection, plumbing, etc. The floors will be served by two central air handling units located on the 8th floor that have been replaced and upgraded. The existing supply and return ductwork which serves the existing risers will be removed and replaced to accommodate the new air flows. All existing induction units on the floors will be removed. Describe scope of work involved in building system upgrades and or replacements, fire protection systems, HVAC systems, Sprinkler, etc. The air conditioning supply air to the 3rd floor will be a medium pressure, variable volume, minimum outdoor air system. Each VAV zone will be provided with a dedicated supply VAV box with reheat coil. Spaces with pressurization requirements will be provided with ducted supply and ducted exhaust to maintain pressurization. Working in tandem with the VAV box, there will be hot water finned tube convectors installed at the perimeter of each elevator lobby/waiting area. All existing induction units on the floors will be removed. The Toilet Rooms will be exhausted directly to the out of doors via dedicated vertical toilet exhaust duct risers and connected to the suction side of the TX fan located in the 8th Floor Mechanical Room. Fire Detection, Alarm and Communication System: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) Describe existing system: The building is equipped with an existing individually coded fire alarm system with the main Fire Alarm Control Panel located in the building lobby. Fire Detection, Alarm and Communication System: Describe proposed system: New fire alarm devices consisting of audible and visual signals (speaker strobes), area smoke detectors, fan system smoke detectors, elevator smoke detectors, manual pull stations and fire warden stations will be connected to the existing fire alarm system. Is the work involved associated with a waiver provided by NYSDOH and or CMS? No If yes, provide waiver number. Click or tap here to enter text. Provide a FEMA BFE Certificate from the FEMA website link www.fema.gov if located in a flood zone. (Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes) What type of work will be associated to mitigate damage and provide the ability to maintain operations if located in a Flood Zone? This work has been completed to maintain the existing Article 28 occupancy Does the project contain imaging equipment used for diagnostic or treatment purposes? If yes, describe equipment. No. If yes, provide Physicist’s Report and the respective drawings and information shall be submitted for review at the Design Development phase of review. Compliance with ADA. List any areas of noncompliance. Click or tap here to enter text. Any other additional information? Click or tap here to enter text. Description Response Type of Work: Alteration Square footages of existing areas of work, existing floor and or existing building. Existing Floor: 14,685 SF Square footages of the proposed work area or areas. Provide the total aggregated sum of the work area Proposed area: 12,772 SF Does the area of work exceed more than of the area, floor or building? Less than Square Footage of Proposed Spaces. 12,772 SF Sprinklered Will be sprinklered as part of the work. Construction Types for the Existing Building and or Proposed Building (NFPA 101 per occupancy, NFPA 220) Type 1 (332) Building Height 202’ 0” Number of Stories 15 Is the proposed Article 28 space located in a basement or underground building? Not Applicable Is the proposed Article 28 space windowless space, area or building? No Is the building a High Rise? Yes Does the high rise building have a generator? Yes What is the occupancy of this project per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Handbook? Chapter 38 Business/ Chapter 39 Existing Business List other occupancies types that are adjacent or within this facility: Healthcare, Business, Ambulatory Healthcare, Storage Ensure those spaces are designated on the plans. Will the project construction be phased? No If yes, how many phases and what is the duration for each phase? Click or tap here to enter text. Does the project contain shell space? No Describe propose shell space. Identified Article 28 Shell Space and Non Article 28 Space. Click or tap here to enter text. Will spaces be temporarily relocated during the construction of this project. No If yes, where will the temporary space be? Click or tap here to enter text. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) Does the temporary space meet the current DOH referenced standards? Not Applicable Will spaces be permanently relocated to allow the construction of this project. Yes If yes, where will this space be? Another floor within this building Does the proposed temporary space meet the current DOH referenced standards? If no, please describe in detail how the space does not comply. Not Applicable Is there a companion CON associated with the temporary space? If so, provide the associated CON number. Click or tap here to enter text. Not Applicable Which edition of FGI is being used for this project? 2018 Edition of FGI Changes in bed capacity? If yes, please describe. Click or tap here to enter text. Not Applicable Changes in the number of occupants? If yes, what is new number of occupants? Click or tap here to enter text. No Does the facility have an EES system? If yes, what type? Type 1 Yes Is the existing EES Type 1 and does it meet the current referenced standards? Yes Does the project involve Operating Room alterations, renovations or rehabilitation? Click or tap here to enter text. No Does the existing EES system have the capacity for the additional electrical loads? Click or tap here to enter text. Yes Does the Project involve Bulk Oxygen Systems? If yes, provide brief description. Click or tap here to enter text. No Does the existing Bulk Oxygen System have the capacity for additional loads for without bringing in additional supplemental systems? Click or tap here to enter text. Yes Does the project involve a pool? No New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (06/2020) REQUIRED ATTACHMENT TABLE CONTINGENT APPROVAL CONTINGENCY APPROVAL Title of Attachment Attachment File Name in PDF format ● ● Architectural/Engineering Narrative A/E Narrative.PDF ● ● Functional Space Program SpaceProgram.PDF ● ● Architect/Engineer Certification Form A/E Cert Form. PDF ● ● FEMA BFE Certificate FEMA BFE Certificate.PDF ● ● Article 28 Space/Non Article 28 Space Plans CON100.PDF ● ● Site Plans SP100.PDF ● ● Life Safety Code Plans (Floor plans and reflected ceiling plans.) LSC100.PDF ● ● Architectural Floor Plans, Roof Plans and Details A100.PDF ● ● Exterior Elevations and Building Sections A200.PDF ● ● Vertical Circulation A300.PDF ● ● Reflected Ceiling Plans and Details A400.PDF Optional ● Wall Sections and Details A500.PDF Optional ● Interior Elevations, Enlarged Plans and Details A600.PDF ● Fire Protection FP100.PDF ● Mechanical Systems M100.PDF ● Electrical Systems E100.PDF ● Plumbing Systems P100.PDF ● Physicist’s Report and the respective drawings and information X100.PDF HCC 3rd FloorTransplant Institute3rd Floor ProgramSpaceNSFQtySubtotalRemarksPublic SpacesReception / Check In / Scanning7042804 staff + 4 self check inWaiting + Pantry254010002.2 seats per exam roomCheck Out5042004 stations + waitingPublic Toilet552110Storage / Wheel Chairs 20120SubtotalNSF1,6101.50DGSF2,414Clinical SpacesExam Rooms115151725Exam Room (Flex / Infusion)1152230Exam Room (LVAD )1151115PFT Room1151115Height/Weight Alcove30130Crash Cart30130Phlebotomy503150Nourishment40140Required for InfusionEquipment Alcove30130MA Touchdown11522306 TD stations per roomSoiled Holding55155Clean Supply1101110Patient Toilet554220Tank Storage10110SubtotalNSF3,0901.50DGSF4,632Faculty + Staff WorkspacesMD Private Office 1059945MD Shared Office (2/office)1053315MD Touchdown1051105Sofa + computer stationAdmin Private Office1051105Admin Shared Office (2/office)1051105Manager Office80180Admin Workroom604240Staff Touchdown 11522303 4 TD stations per roomDirector's SuiteMedical Director1901190Montgomery Medical Director1201120MehtaAdmin / Reception 14011402 workstations + waitingAlcove30130Research Lab2201220Research Staff Workroom11011102 3 workstationsResearch Storage60160Subtotal2,9951.50DGSF4,490Shared SpacesEducation 220122010 12 at table, 1 facilitationConsult / Multipurpose12000Confirm Consult vs OfficeConference240124010 at tableStaff Lounge2301230Staff Toilet502100Lockers20120(24) Lockers in CorridorHousekeeping15115ExistingSubtotalNSF8251.50DGSF1,2373rd Floor TotalTotal Net Square Feet8,520Total Department Gross Square Feet12,772Floor Gross Square Feet15,9651.25Floor Gross Square Feet Available15,986Over (Under)(21)Current Plan12/15/2023New York State Department of HealthCertificate of Need Application1.) Project Cost Summary data:TotalSourceProject Description:Project Cost$21,771,730Schedule 8b, column C, line 8Total Basic Cost of Construction$21,771,730Schedule 8B, column C, line 6Total Cost of Moveable Equipment$996,730Schedule 8B, column C, line 5.1Cost/Per Square Foot for New ConstructionN/ASchedule 10Cost/Per Square Foot for Renovation Construction$1,112Schedule10Total Operating Cost Schedule 13C, column BAmount Financed (as $) Schedule 9Percentage Financed as % of Total Cost Schedule 9Depreciation Life (in years) Anticipated Start Date5/1/2024Anticipated Completion Date9/1/2025Schedule 8A Summarized Project Cost and Construction DatesThis schedule is required for all Full or Administrative review applications except Establishment Only applications.2) Construction DatesSchedule 8BDOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 8A 1This schedule is required for all Full or Administrative review applications except Establishment Only applications$At %for months10 Total Project Cost with fees$21,839,045$0$21,839,045$21,771,7309.2 Additional Fee for projects with capital costs. Not applicable to "Establishment Only" projects. See Web Site for applicable fees. (Line 8, multiplied by the appropriate percentage.)$2,000$65,3158. Total Project Cost: w/o CON fees Total 6 thru 7.2$21,771,730$0Application fees:$2,0009.1 Application Fee. Articles 28, 36 and 40. See Web Site.6. Total Basic Cost of Construction (total 1.1 thru 5.2)$21,771,730$0$21,771,7305.2 Telecommunications$1,600,000$0$1,600,0007.1 Financing Costs (Points etc)$0$07.2 Interim Interest Expense::$0$0 Subtotal (Total 1.1 thru 4.5)$19,175,000$0$19,175,0004.5 Other Fees (Consultant, etc.)$470,000$0$470,000 5.1 Movable Equipment (from Sched 11)$996,730$0$996,7304.2 Planning Consultant Fees$75,000$0$75,0004.1 Fixed Equipment (NIC)$0$0$04.4 Construction Manager Fees$40,000$0$40,0004.3 Architect/Engineering Fees$1,050,000$0$1,050,0003.1 Design Contingency$1,420,000$0$1,420,0003.2 Construction Contingency$1,420,000$0$1,420,0002.3 Site Development$0$0$02.2 Renovation & Demolition$14,200,000$0$14,200,0002.5 Asbestos Abatement or Removal$500,000$0$500,0002.4 Temporary Utilities$0$0$0Schedule 10 Col. HComputed by applicant(A + B)2.1 New Construction$0$0$0$0$0Normally Anticipated Midpoint of Construction Dateas mm/dd/yyyyFilename of attachment PDF For new construction and addition, at the schematic stage the design contingency will normally be and the construction contingency will be . If your percentages are otherwise, please explain in an attachment.Subject of attachmentAttachment NumberNew York State Department of HealthDesign Contingency New Construction0.Normally Anticipated Completion of Construction Dateas mm/dd/yyyyDesign Contingency Renovation Work10.Normally Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 8B Total Project Cost For Projects without Subprojects.ConstantsValueCommentsConstruction Contingency Renovation WorkNormally 10.Anticipated Construction Start Date:as mm/dd/yyyyConstruction Contingency New Construction0.For renovation, the design contingency will normally be and the construction contingency will be . If your percentages are otherwise, please explain in an attachment.Enter Multiplierie: . = .0025 >0.003$65,315$0Year used to compute Current Dollars: ItemProject Cost in Current Dollars Escalation amount to Mid point of Construction Estimated Project Costs ABC1.1 Land Acquisition$0$01.2 Building AcquisitionSource:DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 8B1New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution For all Full or Administrative review applications, except Establishment Only applications. NewConstruction and Renovation must be entered on separate sheets (see instructions in line 43).Codes for completing this table are found in the Functional Codes Lookups sheet (see tab below).Indicate if this project is:New Construction: ORRenovation:XABDEFGHILocationDescription of FunctionalCode (enter Functionalcode in Column D,description appears hereautomatically)FunctionalGross SFConstructionCostPER S.F.Current(un escalated)(F x G)ConstructionCostTOTALCurrentsch.8B col.A(un escalated)Alterations,Scope of workSub projectBuilding Floor FunctionalCode 14633704General Baseline(Includes Medical Staff)12772$1,111.81$14,200,000 #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 1ABDEFGHILocationDescription of FunctionalCode (enter Functionalcode in Column D,description appears hereautomatically)FunctionalGross SFConstructionCostPER S.F.Current(un escalated)(F x G)ConstructionCostTOTALCurrentsch.8B col.A(un escalated)Alterations,Scope of workSub projectBuilding Floor FunctionalCode #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A Totals for Whole Project:12772111214200000 New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 2If additional sheets are necessary, go to the toolbar, select "Edit", select "Move or copy sheet", make sure the"create a copy" box is checked, and select this document as the destination for the copy then select "OK". Anadditional worksheet will be added to this spreadsheetYESNO1. If New Construction is Involved, is it "freestanding? Dense UrbanOther metropolitan or suburbanRural2. Check the box that best describes thelocation of the facilities affected by this project:XThe section below must be filled out and signed by the applicant, applicant's representative, projectarchitect, project engineer or project estimator.engineer,SIGNATUREDATE 1/9/2024PRINT NAMETITLELouis A. Meilink, JrSr. PrincipalNAME OF FIRMBallingerSTREET & NUMBER833 Chestnut St., Suite 1400CITYSTATEZIPPHONE NUMBERPhiladelphiaPA19107215 446 0900New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 3 Sub project NumberFunctional Code Description of equipment, including model, manufacturer, and year of manufactor where applicable. Number of unitsLease (L) or Purchase (P)Date of the end of the lease periodLease Amount or Purchase Price Please see attached. 0Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 8 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 3 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 4 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 5 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 6 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 7 New York State Department of HealthTable I: New Equipment DescriptionFor Article 28, 36, and 40 Construction Projects Requiring Full or Administrative Review *Schedule 11 Moveable EquipmentTotal lease and purchase costs: Subproject 1 Total lease and purchase costs: Subproject 2 Certificate of Need ApplicationTotal lease and purchase costs: Whole Project: DOH 155 B(06/2020) Schedule 111 New York State Department of HealthSchedule 11 Moveable EquipmentCertificate of Need ApplicationTable 2 Equipment being replaced:Sub project NumberFunctional Code Description of equipment, including model, manufacturer, and year of manufactor where applicable. Number of unitsEstimated Current Value 0List only equipment that is being replaced on a one for one basis. On the first line list the new equipment. On the second line list the equipment that is being replaced.Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 2 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 3 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 4 DispositionTotal estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 1 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Whole Project: Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 5 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 6 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 7 Total estimated value of equipment being replaced: Subproject 8 DOH 155 B(06/2020) Schedule 112LocationFloor Room TypeQt Furniture ItemQt Unit CostExtendedTotals530 First Av3Private Office11 Desk with returns1$5,500.00$5,500.00Task chair1$850.00$850.00Overhead2$800.00$1,600.00Lateral File1$700.00$700.00Wardrobe1$1,000.00$1,000.00Guest Chairs (wood)2$850.00$1,700.00Total$11,350.00$124,850.00Shared Office4 Desk2$4,000.00$8,000.00Task chair2$800.00$1,600.00Overhead2$800.00$1,600.00Wardrobe1$1,200.00$1,200.00Guest Chairs (wood)1$850.00$850.00Total$13,250.0053,000.00$ Shared Admin/EA1 Desk2$4,000.00$8,000.00Task chair2$800.00$1,600.00Overhead2$800.00$1,600.00Guest Chairs (wood)1$850.00$850.00Total$12,050.00$12,050.00Medical Director Office1 Desk with returns1$5,500.00$5,500.00Task chair1$800.00$800.00Overhead2$800.00$1,600.00Wardrobe1$1,200.00$1,200.00Guest Chairs (wood)4$850.00$3,400.00Lateral File1$800.00$800.00Table1$1,000.00$1,000.00Total$14,300.00$14,300.003Conference Room1 Conference Table1$7,000.00$7,000.00Credenza1$5,500.00$5,500.00Side Chairs4$800.00$3,200.00Conference Chairs10$950.00$9,500.00Total$25,200.00$25,200.00Consult Room1 Conference Table1$1,000.00$1,000.00Conference Chairs4$950.00$3,800.00Total$4,800.00$4,800.00Education1 Tables4$1,800.00$5,400.00Chairs4$1,000.00$4,000.00Chairs12$650.00$7,800.00Recycle Station1$1,000.00$1,000.00Charging station1$1,000.00$1,000.00Total$19,200.00$19,200.00Waiting Area1 Side table12$800.00$9,600.00Small Table15$700.00$10,500.00Chairs14$1,000.00$14,000.00Tandum seating44$900.00$39,600.00Recycle Station2$1,000.00$2,000.00Charging station2$1,000.00$2,000.00Total$77,700.00$77,700.00Reception/Check In1 Task chair4$800.00$3,200.00Pedestal4$550.00$2,200.00Total$5,400.00$5,400.00Workstations1 Workstation5$4,000.00$20,000.00Behind receptionTask chair5$800.00$4,000.00Total$24,000.00$24,000.00Check in Check out1 Workstation4$3,200.00$12,800.00Task chair4$800.00$3,200.00Guest Chairs8$800.00$6,400.00Bench1$3,500.00$3,500.00Total$25,900.00$25,900.00Staff lounge1 Table2$1,100.00$2,200.00Side chair15$550.00$8,250.00Waste management1$1,200.00$1,200.00Locker15$1,200.00$18,000.00Total$29,650.00$29,650.00Exam room/PFT19 Stool1$800.00$800.00Guest sofa1$1,000.00$1,000.00Total$1,800.00$34,200.003 MA Touch Down2 Task chair6$800.00$4,800.00Pedestal6$550.00$3,300.00Total$8,100.00$8,100.00Staff TD/Work2 Task chair3$800.00$2,400.00Pedestal3$550.00$1,650.00Total$4,050.00$8,100.00NP station1 Task chair4$800.00$3,200.00Pedestal4$550.00$2,200.00Counter4$1,800.00$7,200.00Total$12,600.00$12,600.00Research1 Task chair1$800.00$800.00Stool1$800.00$800.00Total$1,600.00$1,600.00Phelebotomy1 Stool3$800.00$2,400.00Phelebotomy3$1,400.00$4,200.00Cubicle Curtain3$1,200.00$3,600.00Total$10,200.00$10,200.003rd Floor Total$490,850. contingency$49,085.00Grand Total$539,935.00HCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Clean Supply Room Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2BD Becton, Dickinson and Company(8015)BD Becton, Dickinson and Company(8015)1Pump, Infusion, Controller, Modular6643 003MNR00542O/ODraft (New)2,900.002,900.00VendorAlaris PC Unit (8015)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedAkro Mils (30161)Akro Mils (30161)1Shelving, Bins, Wall4986 013SHL044108/03/2018: Qty & SIze TBC.1O/CDraft (New)100.00100.00List30161 Louvered Panel (36 x 61)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedInterMetro Industries Corp((4x)2460FG/(4x)63P)InterMetro Industries Corp((4x)2460FG/(4x)63P)1Shelving, Solid, Steel, 60 inch5697 002SHL07133O/ODraft (New)822.00822.00VendorSuper Erecta 60x24x63 (4 Tier)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPedigo Products, Inc (P 1069 SS)Pedigo Products, Inc (P 1069 SS)3Stand, Mayo, Foot Operated6260 010MAY00063O/ODraft (New)912.002,736.00VendorP 1069 SSProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedFUJIFILM SonoSite, Inc (L25100/L25110)FUJIFILM SonoSite, Inc (L25100/L25110)1Ultrasound, Imaging, Multipurpose,Portable5257 068ULT042408/08/2018: Probe Types TBC.2O/ODraft (New)75,000.0075,000.00EstimateSonosite PX System w/ StandProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :181,558.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 1 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Room #17 Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Omnimed, Inc (305302)Omnimed, Inc (305302)1Dispenser, Glove, Triple Box6364 013GLV00481O/CDraft (New)40.0040.00List305302 Stainless SteelProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2720 12)GOJO Industries (2720 12)1Dispenser, Hand Sanitizer, Wall Mount5869 012DSP00431O/CDraft (New)38.0038.00ListPurell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedKimberly Clark Professional (09746)Kimberly Clark Professional (09746)1Dispenser, Paper Towel, Surface MountBSE389XDSP00001O/CDraft (New)71.0071.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2745 12)GOJO Industries (2745 12)1Dispenser, Soap, Wall Mount5868 036DSP08061O/CDraft (New)63.0063.00ListProvon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedStericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)Stericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)1Disposal, Sharps, Wall Mount3723 035DIS02901O/CDraft (New)0.000.00ListBio Systems C 04RES 04 w/LockingBracketProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPrecision Medical (8MFA1003)Precision Medical (8MFA1003)2Flowmeter, Oxygen3803 044FLW00403O/ODraft (New)36.0072.00ListCompact (0 15 lpm, DISS Hand Tight)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)1Oto/Ophthalmoscope Set, Wall Mount,w/Sphyg4092 038OPH01311O/CDraft (New)1,700.001,700.00EstimateGreen Series 777 [77910]ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedMasimo Corp. (9196)Masimo Corp. (9196)1Oximeter, Pulse, Hand Held4109 019OXM004108/13/2018: Wall Mount Option If Available.2O/ODraft (New)1,200.001,200.00ListRad 5 (SpO2 Only)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)Hillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)1Scale, Clinical, Adult, Digital, Platform4267 004SCL00523O/ODraft (New)1,590.001,590.00Vendor5125 PortableProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)1Stadiometer, Wall Mount4352 025SDM00391O/ODraft (New)407.00407.00Vendor845010W Height Gauge (Wall Mounted)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 2 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Room #17 Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Midmark Corporation (225 003/002 2009 XXX)Midmark Corporation (225 003/002 2009 XXX)1Table, Exam/Treatment, Powered5936 012C340098TBL06266751 0142O/ODraft (New)9,088.009,088.00VendorRitter 225 Barrier Free (Seamless Top)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned______________________________________1UnderCounter Waste Can9007 0000O/ODraft (New)0.000.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :114,269.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 3 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Room, General Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Omnimed, Inc (305302)Omnimed, Inc (305302)1Dispenser, Glove, Triple Box6364 013GLV00481O/CDraft (New)40.0040.00List305302 Stainless SteelProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2720 12)GOJO Industries (2720 12)1Dispenser, Hand Sanitizer, Wall Mount5869 012DSP00431O/CDraft (New)38.0038.00ListPurell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedKimberly Clark Professional (09746)Kimberly Clark Professional (09746)1Dispenser, Paper Towel, Surface MountBSE399XDSP00001O/CDraft (New)71.0071.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2745 12)GOJO Industries (2745 12)1Dispenser, Soap, Wall Mount5868 036DSP08061O/CDraft (New)63.0063.00ListProvon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedStericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)Stericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)1Disposal, Sharps, Wall Mount3723 035DIS02901O/CDraft (New)0.000.00ListBio Systems C 04RES 04 w/LockingBracketProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPrecision Medical (8MFA1003)Precision Medical (8MFA1003)2Flowmeter, Oxygen3803 044FLW00403O/ODraft (New)36.0072.00ListCompact (0 15 lpm, DISS Hand Tight)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)1Oto/Ophthalmoscope Set, Wall Mount,w/Sphyg4092 038OPH01311O/CDraft (New)1,700.001,700.00EstimateGreen Series 777 [77910]ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)Hillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)1Scale, Clinical, Adult, Digital, Platform4267 004SCL00523O/ODraft (New)1,590.001,590.00Vendor5125 PortableProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)1Stadiometer, Wall Mount4352 025SDM00391O/ODraft (New)407.00407.00Vendor845010W Height Gauge (Wall Mounted)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedMidmark Corporation (225 003/002 2009 XXX)Midmark Corporation (225 003/002 2009 1Table, Exam/Treatment, Powered5936 012C340098TBL06266751 0142O/ODraft (New)9,088.009,088.00VendorRitter 225 Barrier Free (Seamless Top)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 4 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Room, General Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2XXX)______________________________________1UnderCounter Waste Can9007 0000O/ODraft (New)0.000.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Ext Total :196,035.00Room Qty :1513,069.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 5 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Rooms W/recliners Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Omnimed, Inc (305302)Omnimed, Inc (305302)1Dispenser, Glove, Triple Box6364 013GLV00481O/CDraft (New)40.0040.00List305302 Stainless SteelProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2720 12)GOJO Industries (2720 12)1Dispenser, Hand Sanitizer, Wall Mount5869 012DSP00431O/CDraft (New)38.0038.00ListPurell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedKimberly Clark Professional (09746)Kimberly Clark Professional (09746)1Dispenser, Paper Towel, Surface MountBSE409XDSP00001O/CDraft (New)71.0071.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2745 12)GOJO Industries (2745 12)1Dispenser, Soap, Wall Mount5868 036DSP08061O/CDraft (New)63.0063.00ListProvon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedStericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)Stericycle (C 04RES 04/WB 04)1Disposal, Sharps, Wall Mount3723 035DIS02901O/CDraft (New)0.000.00ListBio Systems C 04RES 04 w/LockingBracketProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPrecision Medical (8MFA1003)Precision Medical (8MFA1003)2Flowmeter, Oxygen3803 044FLW00403O/ODraft (New)36.0072.00ListCompact (0 15 lpm, DISS Hand Tight)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (77910)1Oto/Ophthalmoscope Set, Wall Mount,w/Sphyg4092 038OPH01311O/CDraft (New)1,700.001,700.00EstimateGreen Series 777 [77910]ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedMasimo Corp. (9196)___________________1Oximeter, Pulse, Hand Held4109 019OXM004108/13/2018: Wall Mount Option If Available.2O/ODraft (New)750.00750.00ListRad 5 (SpO2 Only)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)Hillrom Scale Tronix (5125 X X)1Scale, Clinical, Adult, Digital, Platform4267 004SCL00523O/ODraft (New)1,590.001,590.00Vendor5125 PortableProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)Hillrom Welch Allyn, Inc. (845010W)1Stadiometer, Wall Mount4352 025SDM00391O/ODraft (New)407.00407.00Vendor845010W Height Gauge (Wall Mounted)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 6 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Exam Rooms W/recliners Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Mid Central Medical (MCM5000)Mid Central Medical (MCM5000)1Stretcher, Procedure / Recovery, Chair7763 066STR06036751 0142O/ODraft (New)10,950.0010,950.00VendorContour Recline Standard ProcedureChairProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned______________________________________1UnderCounter Waste Can9007 0000O/ODraft (New)0.000.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Ext Total :31,362.00Room Qty :215,681.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 7 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: North Alcove, Vitals Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Philips Healthcare Cardiology(PFE7024D)Philips Healthcare Cardiology(PFE7024D)1Cabinet, Storage, Clinical, Defibrillator7347 001CST05301O/CDraft (New)399.00399.00ListPremium Surface MountedProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPhilips Healthcare Cardiology (M5066A)Philips Healthcare Cardiology (M5066A)1Defibrillator, Automatic, Advisory5088 009DFB00752O/ODraft (New)1,504.001,504.00VendorHeartStart OnSiteProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedHillrom Scale Tronix (6202 XX X)Hillrom Scale Tronix (6202 XX X)1Scale, Clinical, Adult, Wheelchair4275 121SCL06062O/ODraft (New)3,811.523,811.52Vendor6202 XX X Stow A Weigh WheelchairScaleProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedSeca Corporation (222 1714 008)Seca Corporation (222 1714 008)1Stadiometer, Wall Mount4352 022SDM00361O/ODraft (New)222.00222.00Vendorseca 222 Mech telescopic rod/largemeasuring rangeProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :15,936.52Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 8 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: PFT Lab Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Omnimed, Inc (305302)Omnimed, Inc (305302)1Dispenser, Glove, Triple Box6364 013GLV00481O/CDraft (New)40.0040.00List305302 Stainless SteelProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2720 12)GOJO Industries (2720 12)1Dispenser, Hand Sanitizer, Wall Mount5869 012DSP00431O/CDraft (New)38.0038.00ListPurell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedKimberly Clark Professional (09746)Kimberly Clark Professional (09746)1Dispenser, Paper Towel, Surface MountBSE656YDSP00001O/CDraft (New)71.0071.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2745 12)GOJO Industries (2745 12)1Dispenser, Soap, Wall Mount5868 036DSP08061O/CDraft (New)63.0063.00ListProvon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedVyaire Medical (TBD)Vyaire Medical (TBD)1Pulmonary Function Testing System,Allowance6998 002ERG011308/08/2018: http://www.innovision.dk/Products/Innocor 1.aspx2O/ODraft (New)70,000.0070,000.00EstimateTBDProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned______________________________________1UnderCounter Waste Can9007 0000O/ODraft (New)0.000.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :170,212.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 9 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Phlebotomy Lab Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2MarketLab, Inc (ML6938)MarketLab, Inc (ML6938)1Cart, Procedure, Phlebotomy7026 020PRC07623O/ODraft (New)1,299.001,299.00ListAll In One Mobile Cabinet ML6938(37in.H)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned______________________________________1Centrifuge, Allowance6943 000CEN000007/16/2013: Place Holder For Quest Centrifuge To Be Provided By Quest.2O/ODraft (Existing)0.000.00List_________________Existing (Reuse)UnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedWinco ( )___________________3Chair, Clinical, Blood Draw3600 000CHA000007/23/2013: Winco 2573 To Be Purchased.3O/ODraft (New)500.001,500.00Estimate_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedOmnimed, Inc (305302)Omnimed, Inc (305302)1Dispenser, Glove, Triple Box6364 013GLV00481O/CDraft (New)40.0040.00List305302 Stainless SteelProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedKimberly Clark Professional (09746)Kimberly Clark Professional (09746)1Dispenser, Paper Towel, Surface MountCHU910FDSP00001O/CDraft (New)71.0071.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGOJO Industries (2745 12)GOJO Industries (2745 12)1Dispenser, Soap, Wall Mount5868 036DSP08061O/CDraft (New)63.0063.00ListProvon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedStericycle (C 08 2004LR/D 08)Stericycle (C 08 2004LR/D 08)1Disposal, Sharps, Floor Cart6457 008DIS00773O/ODraft (New)0.000.00ListBio Systems C 08 2004LR/D 08ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedMedtronic Covidien Kendall Products(8938FP/8939)Medtronic Covidien Kendall Products(8938FP/8939)1Disposal, Sharps, Floor Cart, Chemo7351 001DIS00633O/ODraft (New)410.00410.00ListSharpsCart 8938FP w/Chemosafety 8939(18 gal)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPhilips Healthcare Monitoring Systems(863380/989803176601)Philips Healthcare Monitoring Systems(863380/989803176601)1Monitor, Physiologic, Vital Signs, w/Stand4071 092MON10482O/ODraft (New)4,360.504,360.50VendorEarlyVue VS30 w/ Premium RollstandProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 10 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Phlebotomy Lab Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Follett LLC (REF4P)Follett LLC (REF4P)3Refrigerator, Medical Grade,Undercounter9589 004REF179404/02/2013: To Be Placed in Nurse Stations For Specimens.2O/ODraft (New)4,930.0014,790.00ListMedical Grade Refrigerator REF4PProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRubbermaid Commercial Products(FG614300BEIG)Rubbermaid Commercial Products(FG614300BEIG)1Waste Can, Step On4920 001WST00813O/ODraft (New)119.00119.00ListFG614300BEIG (Beige, 8 gal.)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :122,652.50Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 11 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: Soiled Holding Room Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2Nova Biomedical (54790 / 53400)Nova Biomedical (54790 / 53400)1Analyzer, Lab, Glucose, Point of Care3355 011C308977ANA07062O/ODraft (New)1,849.001,849.00ListStatStrip Wireless Glucose Hospital Mtrw/Dock StnProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRubbermaid Commercial Products(1883458)Rubbermaid Commercial Products(1883458)1Waste Can, Step On4920 087WST04823O/ODraft (New)245.00245.00VendorSlim Jim Resin Front Step 13 Gal/BeigeProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassigned______________________________________1Waste Disposal, Allowance7003 000WDS0000Black bins for toxic waste1O/CDraft (New)0.000.00List_________________ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :12,094.00Room Total :06/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 12 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionHCC RenovationsNYU Langone HospitalsRoom By Room Detail Report= GPO Contract= My Org ContractDepartment: 3rd Floor Transplant Program *Comments:Room: South Alcove, Vitals Room#: Room Sign: Area/Phase: UnassignedBuilding: UnassignedQtyModelVendorManufacturerAtta IDCAD IDAlt IDItem IDDescriptionF/IACOpt SubtotalTotal ConfigFunding SourceUnit CostItem StatusCost CenterBudget NameOpt TaxItem TaxCustom 1Item NotesPrice TypeCurrency: Dollar (US)Custom 2GOJO Industries (2720 12)GOJO Industries (2720 12)1Dispenser, Hand Sanitizer, Wall Mount5869 012DSP00431O/CDraft (New)25.0025.00ListPurell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)ProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedGE Healthcare Cardiology (MAC VU360)GE Healthcare Cardiology (MAC VU360)1Electrocardiograph (ECG), Interpretive3768 094ECG06622O/ODraft (New)19,000.0019,000.00VendorMAC VU360 Resting ECG Workstation w/Basic TrolleyProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedPhilips Healthcare Monitoring Systems(863380/989803176601)Philips Healthcare Monitoring Systems(863380/989803176601)2Monitor, Physiologic, Vital Signs, w/Stand4071 092MON10482O/ODraft (New)4,360.508,721.00VendorEarlyVue VS30 w/ Premium RollstandProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedFollett LLC (REF4P)Follett LLC (REF4P)1Refrigerator, Medical Grade,Undercounter9589 004REF179404/02/2013: To Be Placed in Nurse Stations For Specimens.2O/ODraft (New)4,930.004,930.00ListMedical Grade Refrigerator REF4PProjectUnassignedUnassigned0.00UnassignedUnassignedRoom Qty :132,676.00Room Total :Department Total :456,795.02Grand Total :456,795.0206/26/2022 11:11 PMPLAN Powered by Attainia.comPage 13 of 13Sorted by Department, Room, Room #, Item DescriptionNew York State Department of Health Certificate of Need Application Schedule 13B Schedule 13 B 1. Staffing See "Schedules Required for Each Type of CON" to determine when this form is required. Use the "Other" categories for providers, such as dentists, that are not mentioned in the staff categories. If a project involves multiple sites, please create a staffing table for each site. X Total Project or D Subproject number A B I C I D Number of FTEs to the Nearest Tenth Staffing Categories 1. Management & Supervision2. Technician & Specialist3. Registered Nurses4. Licensed Practical Nurses5. Aides, Orderlies & Attendants6. Physicians7. PGY Physicians8. Physicians' Assistants9. Nurse Practitioners10. Nurse Midwife11. Social Workers and Psychologist**12. Physical Therapists and PT Assistants13. Occupational Therapists and OT Assistants14. Speech Therapists and Speech Assistants15. Other Therapists and Assistants16. Infection Control, Environment and FoodService17. Clerical & Other Administrative18. OtherPharmacist 19. Other20. Other21. Total Number of Employees*Last complete year prior to submitting application**Only for RHCF and D& TC proposalsCurrent Year* 76.5 Describe how the number and mix of staff were determined: First Year Third Year Total Budget Total Budget 76.5 76.5 The number and mix of staff were determined based on the current visit/staff ratios. DOH 155 D (06/2020) Schedule 13B 1 The remainder of Schedule 13 has been redacted.DOH 155 D Schedule 16 cover (11/2019) Schedule 16 CON Forms Specific to Hospitals Article 28 Contents: o Schedule 16 A Hospital Program Information o Schedule 16 B Hospital Community Need o Schedule 16 C Impact of CON Application on Hospital Operating Certificate o Schedule 16 D Hospital Outpatient Departments o Schedule 16 E Hospital Utilization o Schedule 16 F Hospital Facility Access New York State Department of Health Schedule 16A Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16A 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 A. Hospital Program Information See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Instructions: Briefly indicate how the facility intends to comply with state and federal regulations specific to the services requested, such as cardiac surgery, bone marrow transplants. For clinic services, please include the hours of service for each day of operation, name of the hospital providing back up services (indicating the travel time and distance from the clinic) and how the facility intends to provide quality oversight including credentialing, utilization and quality assurance monitoring. The NYU Langone Transplant Institute currently exists in several locations on and off the main hospital campus. This project will consolidate those services in a single comprehensive location on the third floor of the Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) on the main NYU Langone Health Campus and as such, NYU Langone Hospital will provide oversite on its quality of care, including credentialing, utilization and quality assurance monitoring. Please refer to the Executive Summary and to the Architectural Narrative for additional information. For Hospital Based Ambulatory Surgery Projects: Please provide a list of ambulatory surgery categories you intend to provide. List of Proposed Ambulatory Surgery Category N/A For Hospital Based Ambulatory Surgery Projects: Please provide the following information: Number and Type of Operating Rooms: • Current: 0 • To be added: 0 • Total ORs upon Completion of the Project: 0 Number and Type of Procedure Rooms: • Current: 0 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16A Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16A 2 (11/2019) • To be added: 0 • Total Procedure Rooms upon Completion of the Project: 0 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 B. Community Need See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Public Need Summary: Briefly summarize on this schedule why the project is needed. Use additional paper, as necessary. If the following items have been addressed in the project narrative, please cite the relevant section and pages. 1. Identify the relevant service area (e.g., Minor Civil Division(s), Census Tract(s), street boundaries, Zip Code(s), Health Professional Shortage Area (HPSA) etc.) The relevant service area for this project includes the 5 boroughs of New York City as well as Nassau and Suffolk Counties. 2. Provide a quantitative and qualitative description of the population to be served. Data may include median income, ethnicity, payor mix, etc. The population to be served resides in the 5 boroughs of New York City as well as Nassau and Suffolk Counties. As of January 1, 2022, The total population for this area is as follows: Total Population % Aged 65+ % Living in Poverty Nassau 1,383,726 18. 5. Suffolk 1,525,416 18. 6. NYC 8,335,897 15. 17. Total 11,245,033 16. 14. The patient population served by NYU Langone Hospitals Transplant program is as follows: Birth Sex: Male and Female Ethnicity: White Non Hispanic Black Non Hispanic Hispanic/Latino Asian, Non Hispanic Primary Sourve of Payment Private Insurance Medicaid Medicare and Choice Medicare FFS 3. Document the current and projected demand for the proposed service in the population you plan to serve. If the proposed service is covered by a DOH need methodology, demonstrate how the proposed service is consistent with it. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 2 (11/2019) During 2023, transplant patients made 7,197 visits to the NYU Langone Hospital Transplant Clinics and this is expected to increase to 11,518 by year 3. 4. (a) Describe how this project responds to and reflects the needs of the residents in the community you propose to serve. Currently, the NYU Langone Hospital Transplant Institute exists in several locations on and off the main hospital campus. This project will consolidate those services into a single comprehensive location on the third floor of the Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) on the main NYU Langone Health Campus improving patient access to services. (b) Will the proposed project serve all patients needing care regardless of their ability to pay or the source of payment? If so, please provide such a statement. The proposed project will serve all patients needing care regardless of their ability to pay or the source of payment. 5. Describe where and how the population to be served currently receives the proposed services. The population to be served currently receives their care in multiple locations on and off the main hospital campus. This project will consolidate those services in a single comprehensive location on the third floor of the existig Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) on the main NYU Langone Health Campus located at 550 First Avenue, New York, New York, 10016. 6. Describe how the proposed services will be address specific health problems prevalent in the service area, including any special experience, programs or methods that will be implemented to address these health issues. The relocated and consolidated Transplant Clinic will provide tranplant patients with care from their initial evaluation visit through their post procedure visit. In addition, pre and post living donor patients will also be seen in this space. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 3 (11/2019) ONLY for Hospital Applicants submitting Full Review CONs Non Public Hospitals 7. (a) Explain how the proposed project advances local Prevention Agenda priorities identified by the community in the most recently completed Community Health Improvement Plan (CHIP)/Community Service Plan (CSP). Do not submit the CSP. Please be specific in which priority(ies) is/are being addressed. (b) If the Project does not advance the local Prevention Agenda priorities, briefly summarize how you are advancing local Prevention Agenda priorities. 8. Briefly describe what interventions you are implementing to support local Prevention Agenda goals. 9. Has your organization engaged local community partners in its Prevention Agenda efforts, including the local health department and any local Prevention Agenda coalition? 10. What data from the Prevention Agenda dashboard and/or other metrics are you using to track progress to advance local Prevention Agenda goals? 11. In your most recent Schedule H form submitted to the IRS, did you report any Community Benefit spending in the Community Health Improvement Services category that supports local Prevention Agenda goals? (Y/N question) N/AN/ New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 4 (11/2019) ONLY for Hospital Applicants submitting Full Review CONs Public Hospitals 12. Briefly summarize how you are advancing local public health priorities identified by your local health department and other community partners. 13. Briefly describe what interventions you are implementing to support local public health priorities. 14. Have you engaged local community partners, including the local health department, in your efforts to address local public health priorities? 15. What data are you using to track progress in addressing local public health priorities? N/A New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 1 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. C. Impact of CON Application on Hospital Operating Certificate Note: If the application involves an extension clinic, indicate which services should be added or removed from the certificate of the extension clinic alone, rather than for the hospital system as a whole. If multiple sites are involved, complete a separate 16C for each site. TABLE 16C 1 AUTHORIZED BEDS LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Category Code Current Capacity Add Remove Proposed Capacity AIDS 30 BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT 21 BURNS CARE 09 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE DETOX * 12 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB * 13 COMA RECOVERY 26 CORONARY CARE 03 INTENSIVE CARE 02 MATERNITY 05 MEDICAL/SURGICAL 01 NEONATAL CONTINUING CARE 27 NEONATAL INTENSIVE CARE 28 NEONATAL INTERMEDIATE CARE 29 PEDIATRIC 04 PEDIATRIC ICU 10 PHYSICAL MEDICINE & REHABILITATION 07 PRISONER PSYCHIATRIC** 08 RESPIRATORY SPECIAL USE SWING BED PROGRAM TRANSITIONAL CARE 33 TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 11 TOTAL *CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE: Requires additional approval by the Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS) **PSYCHIATRIC: Requires additional approval by the Office of Mental Health (OMH) Does the applicant have previously submitted Certificate of Need (CON) applications that have not been completed involving addition or decertification of beds? No Yes (Enter CON number(s) to the right) New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 2 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 2 LICENSED SERVICES FOR HOSPITAL CAMPUSES LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Current Add Remove Proposed MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE 6 MEDICAL SERVICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY MULTI SPECIALTY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER (SPECIFY) CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION ADULT DIAGNOSTIC ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY (EP) PEDIATRIC DIAGNOSTIC PEDIATRIC INTERVENTION ELECTIVE PERCUTANEOUS CORONARY INTERVENTION (PCI) CARDIAC SURGERY ADULT CARDIAC SURGERY PEDIATRIC CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P 1 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB 2 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P 2 CLINIC PART TIME SERVICES COMPREHENSIVE PSYCH EMERGENCY PROGRAM DENTAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT EPILEPSY COMPREHENSIVE SERVICES HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P 2 NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS7 1 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Mental Health in addition to this CON. 2 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services in addition to this CON. 4 DIALYSIS SERVICES require additional approval by Medicare 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators 6 PRIMARY CARE includes one or more of the following: Family Practice, Internal Medicine, Ob/Gyn or Pediatric 7 Must be certified for Home Hemodialysis Training & Support New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 3 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 2 LICENSED SERVICES (cont.) Current Add Remove Proposed RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC 5 RENAL DIALYSIS, ACUTE RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC [Complete the ESRD section 16C 3(a)&(b) TRANSPLANT HEART ADULT HEART PEDIATRIC KIDNEY LIVER TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 4 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the beds and services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 3 LICENSED SERVICES FOR HOSPITAL EXTENSION CLINICS and OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Check if this is a mobile van/clinic Current Add Remove Proposed MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE 6 MEDICAL SERVICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER (SPECIFY) MULTI SPECIALTY CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P 1 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB 2 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P 2 DENTAL HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P 2 NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS7 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC5 RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC [Complete the ESRD section 16C 3(a)&(b) below]4 TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY FOR OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS ONLY8 EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT 1 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Mental Health in addition to this CON. 2 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services in addition to this CON. 4 DIALYSIS SERVICES require additional approval by Medicare 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators 6 PRIMARY CARE includes one or more of the following: Family Practice, Internal Medicine, Ob/Gyn or Pediatric 7 Must be certified for Home Hemodialysis Training & Support 8 OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS must meet all relevant Federal Conditions of Participation for a hospital per CMS S&C 08 08 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 5 (11/2019) END STAGE RENAL DISEASE (ESRD) TABLE 16C 3(a) CAPACITY Existing Add Remove Proposed CHRONIC DIALYSIS If application involves dialysis service with existing capacity, complete the following table: TABLE 16C 3(b) TREATMENTS Last 12 mos 2 years prior 3 years prior CHRONIC DIALYSIS All Chronic Dialysis applicants must provide the following information in compliance with 10 NYCRR 670.6. 1. Provide a five year analysis of projected costs and revenues that demonstrates that the proposed dialysis services will be utilized sufficiently to be financially feasible. 2. Provide evidence that the proposed dialysis services will enhance access to dialysis by patients, including members of medically underserved groups which have traditionally experienced difficulties obtaining access to health care, such as; racial and ethnic minorities, women, disabled persons, and residents of remote rural areas. 3. Provide evidence that the hours of operation and admission policy of the facility will promote the availability of dialysis at times preferred by the patients, particularly to enable patients to continue employment. 4. Provide evidence that the facility is willing to and capable of safely serving patients. 5. Provide evidence that the proposed facility will not jeopardize the quality of care or the financial viability of existing dialysis facilities. This evidence should be derived from analysis of factors including, but not necessarily limited to current and projected referral and use patterns of both the proposed facility and existing facilities. A finding that the proposed facility will jeopardize the financial viability of one or more existing facilities will not of itself require a recommendation to of disapproval. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16D Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16D 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 D. Hospital Outpatient Department Utilization projections a b d f Current Year Visits* First Year Visits* Third Year Visits* CERTIFIABLE SERVICES MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE MEDICAL SERICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER MULTI SPECIALTY CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION ADULT DIAGNOSTIC ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY PEDIATRIC DIAGNOSTIC PEDIATRIC INTERVENTION ELECTIVE PERCUTANEOUS CORONARY INTERVENTION (PCI) CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P CLINIC PART TIME SERVICES CLINIC SCHOOL BASED SERVICES CLINIC SCHOOL BASED DENTAL PROGRAM COMPREHENSIVE EPILEPSY CENTER COMPREHENSIVE PSYCH EMERGENCY PROGRAM DENTAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC OTHER SERVICES Transplant7,1979,519 11,518Total 7,1979,519 11,518Note: In the case of an extension clinic, the service estimates in this table should apply to the site in question, not to the hospital or network as a whole. *The ‘Total’ reported MUST be the SAME as those on Table 13D 4.New York State Department of Health Schedule 16E Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16E 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 E. Utilization/discharge and patient days See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required This schedule is for hospital inpatient projects only. This schedule is required if hospital discharges or patient days will be affected by ± or more, or if this utilization is created for the first time by your proposal. Include only those areas affected by your project. Current year data, as shown in columns 1 and 2, should represent the last complete year before submitting the application. Enter the starting and ending month and year in the column heading. Forecast the first and third years after project completion. The first year is the first twelve months of operation after project completion. Enter the starting and ending month and year being reported in the column headings. For hospital establishment applications and major modernizations, submit a summary business plan to address operations of the facility upon project completion. All appropriate assumptions regarding market share, demand, utilization, payment source, revenue and expense levels, and related matters should be included. Also, include your strategic plan response to the escalating managed care environment. Provide a complete answer and indicate the hospital’s current managed care situation, including identification of contracts and services. NOTE: Prior versions of this table referred to “incremental” changes in discharges and days. The table now requires the full count of discharges and days. N/A Ambulatory Program OnlyNew York State Department of Health Schedule 16E Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16E 2 (11/2019) Schedule 16 E. Utilization/Discharge and Patient Days Current Year Start date: 1st Year Start date: 3rd Year Start date: Service (Beds) Classification Discharges Patient Days Discharges Patient Days Discharges Patient Days AIDS BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT BURNS CARE CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE DETOX CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB COMA RECOVERY CORONARY CARE INTENSIVE CARE MATERNITY MED/SURG NEONATAL CONTINUING CARE NEONATAL INTENSIVE CARE NEONATAL INTERMEDIATE CARE PEDIATRIC PEDIATRIC ICU PHYSICAL MEDICINE & REHABILITATION PRISONER PSYCHIATRIC RESPIRATORY SPECIAL USE SWING BED PROGRAM TRANSITIONAL CARE TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY OTHER (describe) TOTAL NOTE: Prior versions of this table referred to “incremental” changes in discharges and days. The table now requires the full count of discharges and days. N/ANew York State Department of Health Schedule 16F Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16F 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 F. Facility Access See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Complete Table 1 to indicate the method of payment for inpatients and for inpatients and outpatients who were transferred to other health care facilities for the calendar year immediately preceding this application. Start date of year for which data applies (m/c/yyyy): Table 1. Patient Characteristics Total Number of Inpatients Number of Patients Transferred Inpatient OPD ER Payment Source Medicare Blue Cross Medicaid Title V Workers' Compensation Self Pay in Full Other (incl. Partial Pay) Free Commercial Insurance Total Patients Complete Table 2 to indicate the method of payment for outpatients. Table 2. Outpatient Characteristics Emergency Room Outpatient Clinic Community MH Center Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Primary Payment Source Medicare Blue Cross Medicaid Title V Workers' Compensation Self Pay in Full Other (incl. Partial Pay) Free Commercial Insurance Total Patients A. Attach a copy of your discharge planning policy and procedures. B. Is your facility a recipient of federal assistance under Title VI or XVI of the Public Health Service? Act (Hill Burton)? Yes No If yes, answer the following questions and attach the most recent report on Hill Burton compliance from the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. N/ANew York State Department of Health Schedule 16F Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16F 2 (11/2019) 1. Is your facility currently obligated to provide uncompensated service under the Public Health Service Act? Yes No If yes, provide details on how your facility has met such requirement for the last three fiscal years including notification of the requirement in a newspaper of general circulation. Also, list any restricted trusts and endowments that were used to provide free, below cost or charity care services to persons unable to pay. 2. With respect to all or any portion of the facility which has been constructed, modernized, or converted with Hill Burton assistance, are the services provided therein available to all persons residing in your facility's service area without discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, creed, or any basis unrelated to an individual's need for the service or the availability of the needed service in the facility? Yes No If no, provide an explanation. 3. Does the facility have a policy or practice of admitting only those patients who are referred by physicians with staff privileges at the facility? Yes No 4. Do Medicaid beneficiaries have full access to all of your facility's health services? Yes No If no, provide a list of services where access by Medicaid beneficiaries is denied or limited.