\.RM(7,,S .Community Health Advisors/WorkersSelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesVolume IIIJune 1998ICENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROLAND PREVENTIONU.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESCenters for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionDivision of Adult and Community HealthThis publication was developed and produced by the National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health Promotion of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health PromotionJames S. Marks, MD, MPHDirectorTechnical Information andEditorial Services BranchVirginia S. Bales, MPHDeputy DirectorChristine S. Fralish, MLISChiefDivision of Adult and Community HealthGail A. Cruse, MLISTechnical Information SpecialistGary C. HogelinDirectorDivision of Cancer Prevention and ControlJ. Nell Brownstein, PhDHealth Education SpecialistStephen W. Wyatt, DMD, MPHDirectorSuggested CitationCenters for Disease Control and Prevention. Community Health Advisors/Workers:Selected Annotations and Programs in the United States.Volume III.Atlanta, Geor gia: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health Promotion, 1998.This publication was prepared by Cygnus Corporation under Contract No. 200 94 0844 for theNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.Contents should notbe construed as the official policy of the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention andHealth Promotion or any agency of the federal government.Community Health Advisors/WorkersSelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesVolume IIIJune 1998U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESCenters for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionDivision of Adult and Community HealthCommunity Health Advisors/Workers: Volume IIISelected Annotations and Programs in the United StatesJune 1998PrefaceviiArticlesixIntroductionxxxvHow to Use This PublicationxxxviiSection IContentsI.The Community Health Advisor/WorkerA.Conceptual Models1B.Applications and Methods9C.Volunteers as Community Health Advisors35D.Evaluation43EL.Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs49HI.Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsA.Asthma53B.Cancer55C.Cardiovascular Disease65D.Diabetes73E.Nutrition77F.Tobacco Control79IV.Issues of AgingA.Quality of Life81B.Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populations85inV.School Health93VI.Maternal and Child Health103VII.Sexual Behavior127VIII.Injury and Violence131IX.Mental Health133X.Substance Abuse141INDEXESTitle Index143Author Index151Subject Index159IVAbout Community Health Advisors"If the problems are in the community...the solutions are in the community."Gilbert Friedell, MDDirector of Cancer ControlKentucky Cancer ProgramLucille P. Markey Cancer CenterLexington, Kentucky"When asked why I am so sold on working with community health advisors in community driven healthpromotion, I answer with four main points:IT'S FUN,IT WORKS,IT LASTS,IT'S THE RIGHT THING TO DO!But even I must admit that CHA programs can be hard to explain, evaluate, and fund, and they take timeto implement. Nevertheless, I firmly believe that CHAs and programs like CHAN are essential compo nents of the solution to this nation's health problems."Agnes W.Hinton, Ph.D., RD, LNDirectorCommunity Health Advisor NetworkUniversity ofSouthern MississippiHattiesburg, Mississippi"Many of the most intractable health problems plaguing communities today—infant mortality amongAfrican Americans, asthma among poor children, violence among inner city youth—are the result ofenvironmental, social, and economic conditions. As health care workers who combine an intimate under standing of communities with knowledge about health issues and the health care system, CommunityHealth Advisors are uniquely suited to address these underlying determinants of health and create healthiercommunities."Noel Wiggins, MSPHHealth Services SpecialistMultnomah County Health DepartmentPortland, Oregon"It is important that people entering the field of Community Health Work are aware of the rich culturalhistory. The modern "Community Health Advisor" is the grandchild of the historical "Granny Midwife","Curandcra", "Mama Lua", "Partiera", or "Sage Femme".These community healers were much moreloosely connected to the formal health care system, but depended upon greatly.They have been themedical system's link to disenfranchised and difficult to reach communities wherever they were, now andthen."Aminyah MuhammadLife Skills EducatorFor Love of ChildrenWashington, DC"From the late 1960's to 1998 Community Health Workers have come full circle:In the early years the scope of work was unstructured, the role was not clearly defined, and agencies weregenerally apathetic. But in time we proved our worth through commitment and dedication to the commu nity as members of the health care services team.By the end of the 1980's many community healthworkers were written out of funded programs while those who remained were stripped of responsibilitiesand given limited duties.Now, there is renewed interest in the community health worker field and the current health care environ ment presents a valuable opportunity to capitalize on the strengths and contributions of community healthworkers. This is a very exciting time for us and after over 27 years of experience as a community healthworker, I am very proud to be a part of this history.Though much work has been accomplished over thelast three years, there is still much to be done. We must seize this moment."Yvonne LacyCommunity Health Worker SpecialistCity ofBerkeleyHealth and Human Services DepartmentBerkeley, CaliforniaVIPrefaceThemission of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is to promote health andquality of life by preventing and controlling disease, injury, and disability. As the nation'sprevention agency, CDC accomplishes its mission by working with partners throughout thenation and the world to monitor health, detect and investigate health problems, conduct research toenhance prevention, develop and advocate sound public health policies, implement prevention strate gies, promote healthy behaviors, foster safe and healthful environments, and provide leadership andtraining.In the United States, community health advisors* foster these goals by conducting community levelactivities and interventions that promote health and prevent diseases. These advisors are trusted, re spected members of the community who serve as a bridge between their peers and health professionals.Their informal, but direct, involvement enhances the delivery of health related services and informationto diverse populations, including minority, rural, and underserved populations. They provide a vitalservice by establishing and maintaining relationships with health care professionals and laypersons inthe community. As health advocates, community health advisors promote and encourage positive,healthful behaviors among their peers.In recent years, community health advisors have experienced a resurgence in their role in the commu nity. We have added the term Community Health Worker to the title of this document because increas ing numbers of community members who serve their communities and the changing health care system,including managed care organizations, are being called community health workers. They are currentlyinvolved in a variety of CDC funded projects in such areas as HIV/AIDS, breast and cervical cancer,cardiovascular disease, diabetes, maternal and child health, nutrition, immunizations, and tuberculosis.To emphasize the important work being done by indigenous health workers at the community andneighborhood levels, we have prepared an extensive bibliography by searching bibliographic databasesand by contacting organizations, programs, and individuals engaged in community based activities andinterventions. During our search, we may have overlooked some excellent source materials.If you findthat your program or article is not listed, we invite you to furnish information about your project byfilling out the program data sheet located at the back of Volume III. We will include your program orresearch when we update the bibliography.vn*The term community health advisor/worker denotes trusted and respected community members whoprovide informal community based health related services and who establish vital links between health careprofessionals in local public health departments and persons in the community.In the following list, wehave tried to include some of the different terms that may be used to identify these lay health communitymembers:Community health advocateLay community health workerCommunity health aideLay health workerCommunity health representativeLay volunteerCommunity helperNatural caregiverFamily health promoterNatural helperHealth facilitatorOutreach workerHealth liaisonParaprofessionalHealth promoterPeer counselorHealth visitorPeer health advisorHome visitorPeer health educatorIndigenous health aidePromotoraIndigenous paraprofessionalResource motherInformal helperVolunteer health educatorOn the following pages you will find two manuscripts. The first presents the results of the analyses ofthe information provided by the 140 CHA/CHW programs in Volume II; it provides insights into howCHA's are recruited, trained, managed, and retained by agencies, and it makes management recommen dations for improving these tasks and the agency working environment. The second paper reveals somedifferences between rural and urban CHA programs and makes further management recommendations.vmArticle1Community Health Advisor Use: Insights from a National SurveyKatherine Wilson, MPH, CHES; J. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.; Curtis Blanton, MSMs. Wilson is a Public Health Educator in the Division of Cancer Prevention and Control; Dr.Brownstein is a Health Education Specialist, and Mr. Blanton is a Health Statistician in the Division ofAdult and Community Health. Both Divisions are in the National Center for Chronic Disease Preven tion and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA.The authors acknowledge assistance provided by Susan Ackermann, Ph.D., Barbara Dougherty, andFonda Martin.Address correspondence to Nell Brownstein, Ph.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770Buford Hwy, (K45), Atlanta, GA, 30341 3724, or e mail jnbl @cdc.govCommunity Health Advisor Use: Insights from a National Survey AbstractThis article presents the results of a national survey of 140 Community Health Advisor (CHA) pro grams in the U.S., contained in Volume II of this series. The results showed that: CHA programs reachall age, racial, and ethnic groups in both rural and urban areas; services are delivered at the communitylevel; and CHA's primary role is to educate and promote health. Providing training, compensation, anda positive work environment; being respectful of the individual; and having a clearly defined scope ofduties were the most effective means of retaining CHAs. We recommend that agencies consider devel oping a long term training plan and a compensation program, reviewing their agency's work environ ment, and planning a recruitment strategy.Key Words: Community Health Advisors, health promotion, training, strategiesIntroductionA Community Health Advisor (CHA) is a natural helper—a trusted, respected, and well known indig enous member of the community to whom others naturally turn for support, health advice, resources,and referrals1,2.He or she is a bridge between community members andlocal health and humanservices professionals2 3. The informal, but direct, involvement of CHAs enhances the delivery ofhealth related information and services to diverse groups, including minority, rural, and underservedpopulations4,5. Using CHAs can be an effective, low cost way to increase community members' accessto health care; improve health status; change negative health related behavior or reinforce positivebehavior; change health related attitudes, values, beliefs; place relevant information into an appropriatecultural context; and increase health knowledge5 "8. CHA programs have improved communicationbetween community members and health professionals; bridged the cultural gap; improved the deliveryof health services to vulnerable populations such as low income, ethnic, and rural and neighborhoodgroups; and assisted community residents in resolving their own needs and problems (individual andixcommunity empowerment)'•5J9~ 12. Many different names identify CHAs. Some commonly used namesinclude community health workers, community health aides, promotoras, consejeras, natural helpers,lay health workers, outreach workers, peer counselors, home visitors, community health representatives,and resource mothers. The National Community Health Advisor Study identified 66 distinct (althoughoften similar) titles for CHAs13.Although CHAs have been used for a long time in other countries, the use of CHAs to assist with publichealth programs began in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s and since then has gone in and outof fashion9. Within the past five years, there has been a resurgent interest in, and use of, CHAs becauseof increased health care costs, limited health care access, and the growth of minority and underservedpopulations. Many CHA programs serve the traditional audiences of the state and local health depart ments. Using CHAs can help these agencies reach their audiences, but only if agencies effectivelyintegrate CHAs into their programs.This analysis presents to agencies that use, or are considering the use of, CHA programs, programmanagers' insights into the most effective strategies for recruiting, managing, and retaining CHAs.MethodsThe National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Controland Prevention, conducted a national survey of Community Health Advisor (CHA) programsto estab lish a coordinated, central source of information on them. A secondary analysis of the survey dataprovides insights into how CHAs are recruited, trained, managed, and retained by agencies.SampleThe CHA program survey was a nonprobability, convenience sample of CHA programs in the UnitedStates. With a nonprobability sample, inferences can be made only about the respondents to the surveyand not about all U.S. CHA programs.Nevertheless, because of the number and variety of respondents,the authors believe that the respondents gave meaningful insights into CHA programs.Surveys weresent to recipients of Federal funding for breast and cervical cancer screening and diabetes education andscreening, state directors of health education and health promotion, state directors of chronic diseaseprograms, state directors of education, rural health directors, participants of the Arizona "Peer HealthEducation" conference, Resource Mothers program directors and staff, and attendees of CHA sessionsat the 1993 American Public Health Association Annual Meeting. Also, respondents were solicitedthrough the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion's "Chronic DiseaseNotes and Reports" and through the newsletter of the Public Health Education and Health PromotionSection of the American Public Health Association. All surveys were completed by program managers,not CHAs.InstrumentThe CHA program survey (found in volume II) has 33 items divided into three sections: a) identifyinginformation; b) program setting, which includes the type of agency delivering programs, health topicscovered, site of program delivery, target populations served, hours worked, compensation, training, andfunding sources; and c) program information, including the number of CHAs, number of clients served,percentage of CHAs who are members of the target group, titles and roles for CHAs.All but fourquestions use a checklist format where multiple responses were possible.The remaining four ques tions, which deal with key issues of recruitment and retention, were written in an open ended format toidentify responses that may be used to develop a future survey. Respondents also were invited to attachdescriptive program materials and evaluation plans.We developed the questions with guidance from experienced CHA practitioners. The draft survey wasfield tested with academics, CHAs and program managers who participated in the "Peer Health Educa tion:Mobilizing Resources for Practice, Policy, and Research" conference held February 7 8, 1993, inTucson, AZ.Since the primary purpose of the survey was to collect program descriptions for anelectronic database, we did not think that including the responses to the field test would bias the studyoutcome.Data analysisAll responses were entered into Epi Info I, version 514. Frequencies and percentages were tabulatedusing SAS software. A response rate is impossible to calculate, since the number of CHA programs inthe United States is unknown and no record of secondary distribution of the survey exists.We used the constant comparative method15 to analyze the qualitative data from the four open endedquestions. This method uses open coding to identify salient themes, which are grouped and defined ascategories. Once defined, we used categories to condense and analyze survey data. The themes forretaining CHAs were developed with assistance from a human resources expert, since many aspects ofretaining CHAs are similar to those of retaining other workers. To test inter rater reliability, a secondperson coded the same responses by using the response theme list, which is shown in Table1.Table1 . Response themes for recruiting and retaining CHAsRecruitingRetaining•AdvertisingTrainingWord of mouth referralsCompensation, such as salary, incentives,Referrals from community andbenefits, or stipendssocial service groupsWorking environmentReferrals from current CHAsStandard operating procedures (agency)Networking with people in otherScope of work (for CHA)CHA programsThree of these themes are given specific definitions for this analysis. Standard operating proceduresdescribes operation norms for the agency or the set of guidelines under which an agency, organization,or other group conducts business to achieve objectives. Scope of work addresses the individual tasks,performances, expectations, andresponsibilities related to a position, not to a person. Working envi ronment includes the contact with and support of other employees, relationships between employeesand supervisors, communication, recognition and appreciation, respect, and cultural sensitivity.xiTable 2.Funding sources for CHAprogramsResultsProfile ofprogramsProgram managers from 36 states and the Dis trict of Columbia completed 140 surveys. Thelargest number of respondents was from Califor nia (14), Florida (13), and Minnesota (12)(Figure1).Fifty six percent of these programswere funded exclusively by public monies, 14percent received private funding exclusively, andthe remaining 30 percent drew support fromvarious combinations of public and private funds.(Table 2).Figure1 . Community Health Advisor survey respondents per stateStateFederalPrivate foundationsLocalNonprofitVoluntary agencies56.46.26.21.20.3.Most () of the organizations delivering CHA programs described themselves as community basedorganizations, and included local health departments, local hospitals, and clinics. Only of theprograms were delivered by state health departments (Figure 2).In of the programs, CHAs weremembers of the target community.In most cases, CHAs were trained by local health educators andnurses. Most CHA interventions were conducted in homes () and in other community sites such asschools, worksites, religious institutions, public health clinics, and medical clinics. Some programsxnFigure 2. Organizations thatdeliver CHA Programs100c4)v0)a.CommunityLevelOrgs.StateHealthDept.SchoolSystemUniversitywere conducted in community and senior citizencenters, soup kitchens, and food pantries.Although the great majority () of programsreached adult women, a large proportion () ofprograms reported having males as their clients.Most programs served the following racial andethnic groups: whites (served by of pro grams), blacks (), and Hispanics (). Amuch smaller percentage of programs reportedserving Asians/Pacific Islanders () andAlaska natives ().Over half of the programs that responded in cluded counseling on pregnancy (), nutrition(), family planning (), substance abuse(), and HIV/AIDS (). Violence waslisted as a topic in of the programs. Chronicdiseases were also addressed in a substantialpercentage of programs: of programs addressed smoking, addressed cancer, and ad dressed physical activity. Newer areas addressed by CHA programs included mental health and healthissues of the elderly (both areas were addressed in of the programs).We used Eng's classification of CHA roles8 to categorize the different functions that CHAs served.Ninety three percent provided health education and health promotion, conducted outreach, served as patient and client advocates, offered social support, and conducted communityadvocacy. CHAs were less frequently reported to function in assessing risk (), providing transpor tation (), and providing treatment ().CHA recruitment profileRespondents listed the three most effective methods of recruiting CHAs as advertising, word of mouthreferrals, and referrals from community groups. Forty nine percent of respondents said they advertisedfor CHAs in community presentations, local radio and newspapers, religious bulletins, and publicannouncements. Forty five percent used word of mouth recruitment. Thirty four percent solicitedreferrals from community and religious leaders, social workers, and health professionals. Less fre quently used methods were obtaining referrals from current CHAs within their program () andnetworking with other CHA programs ().CHA retention profileThe respondents reported that the best methods of retaining CHAs were to offer training (), andcompensation (), such assalary or wages, incentives, and stipends.Initial training of CHAs varieswidely in format, content, and intensity depending on the type of program and the functions expected ofXlllthe CHA. On the average, agencies provided 40 hours or fewer of initial training and 2 4 hours of in service training per month.Over half () of the respondents said their programs offered certificatesof long term training, via inservices, which provided additional health and community information andresources enabling CHAs to meet client needs.Seventy seven percent of the programs provided compensation. Those that used a CHA more than 10hours per month were more likely to compensate. The average CHA works 40 hours or fewer permonth. Wages ranged from $5 to $9 per hour.Other forms of compensation included child care,reimbursement for travel expenses, and advanced training.Few programs offered health or otherworker benefits. This data was comparable to that of the National Community Health Advisor Study: of CHAs reported being paid and of those paid, were paid $10 per hour or less.A closer look at the remaining responses to this open ended question yielded three themes related toagencies — working environment, standard operating procedures, and scope of work— which seemedto be critical in retaining CHAs.Respondents indicated that agencies must provide a working environment in which CHAs feel respectedas individuals and esteemed for their competence within their communities.One example of how anagency might acknowledge a CHAs worth to the team is to encourage him or her to participate in thedevelopment of program protocols and materials.Respondents indicated the need for an effective communication protocol in the working environmentthat routinely would keep CHAs informed of program results, would encourage information sharing,and would foster team building and mentoring of CHAs by other staff members. They listed manyways of showing appreciation for CHAs, which included incentives, recognition awards and luncheons,specialized training courses, and certification.Respondents from many agencies reported that an initialorientation session and opportunities for continuing education are essential to a successful workingenvironment.Respondents reported that standard operating procedures that help retain CHAs are more people centered than product centered.Matching the CHA's skills with appropriate tasks, offering flexiblework schedules, encouraging individual goal setting, and offering leadership opportunities are standardoperating procedures integral to retaining CHAs.Examples of responses included in the scope of work variable were clear expectations, meaningfulwork, opportunity for development and advancement, group projects, fair work load, and clear stan dards for performance with a well defined job description. Other research indicates that providing morerealistic expectations of what the work entails is a significant factor in preventing worker burnout 16.DiscussionCHA programs support public health efforts to solve complex problems, particularly those that dispro portionately impact members of vulnerable populations such asracial and ethnic minorities and peoplewith low incomes and poor education. The finding that of CHAs are members of their targetxivcommunities suggests that these types of interventions are delivered by indigenous members of thesepopulations in a manner that is consistent with the local cultural beliefs, practices, and social norms.This can allow CHA programs to more effectively promote primary and secondary prevention messagesand services and to increase access to health care access, thereby helping to fill in the gaps in the currenthealth care system.The finding that community groups such as local health departments, local social service agencies, andclinics operate most programs suggests that these organizations use existing social networks to promotehealth. CHAs also work through social networks, such as families, friends, neighborhood groups,churches, and worksites.CHAs thus link individuals and families with health and social servicesagencies in the community 717, help health professionals understand the community's priorities andhealth concerns, and promote positive, healthful behaviors among their neighbors U8.The survey results show that CHA programs reach all age, racial, and ethnic groups in the United Statesin both rural and urban areas. They serve a broader population than might be expected from reading thepublished descriptions of individual CHA programs.It is not surprising to see the large percentage ofCHA programs that serve black and Hispanic populations. Research findings support the effectivenessof using the CHA strategy in these populations in which members operate through social networks andtraditionally rely on informal health care networks 4 5 19 26.However, the finding that a larger percentageof programs focused on white populations was unexpected. One explanation is that states with pre dominately white populations submitted more surveys than did those with more diverse populations.Also, some programs, such as those located in rural Appalachia, primarily focus on poor, less educatedwhite clients. We found that most CHA programs are open to all community members, regardless oftheir racial or ethnic background. Thus, respondents may have checked the category for whites on thesurvey even though their program primarily targets other groups. The low number of programs servingNative Americans may be due to the lower than expected response rate from Native American pro grams. We received a few responses from individualNative American programs and one response from theIndian Health Service office (representing over1 ,500Community Health Representatives in all IHS pro grams).Figure 3. Focus of CHA ProgramsOver half of the programs integrate urgent publichealth topics into traditional health interventionsinvolving maternal and child health, adolescenthealth, and college peer health interventions.Theseurgent topics included substance abuse (), sexualbehavior (), HIV/AIDS (), tobacco control(), and violence () (Figure 3). A smallernumber of programs (25 ) indicated that theyaddress injury prevention, physical activity, andchronic disease control. Less frequently coveredtopics included mental health and health issues of theelderly (). These trends show that CHA_JHLNutritionMCHUrgentareasChronicdiseasexvprograms are responsive to pressing contemporary public health issues. The significance of these trendsis the diffusion of the CHA strategy from the traditional focus on maternal and child health and nutri tion to newer issues in health promotion and disease prevention.Our analysis indicates that the role of the CHA overwhelmingly involves health promotion and educationrather than treatment.This finding is consistent with research results that show that throughout the past25 years CHAs consistently have acted as resources for health information and have assisted with patienteducation26. One exception noted in the literature is the Community Health Aide in Alaskan NativeAmerican communities, who is trained and certified to deliver primary health care on a limited basis2728.RecommendationsThe results of this analysis suggest that agencies exploring the use of CHAs should consider severalissues.First, agencies should develop a long term training plan that includes orientation and continuingeducation, because they appear to be a critical component in retaining CHAs and contribute to programstability. A long term training plan keeps CHAs interested in the program and allows them to vent theirfrustrations, share their experiences, and find creative solutions to problems they encounter.Second, agencies should carefully consider whether to compensate CHAs.This issue is much debatedamong those involved in CHA programs and research. Some fear that compensation elevates CHAs tothe level of paraprofessionals and possibly distances them from their community. Most respondentsprovided at least minimal compensation to CHAs who work more than ten hours per month, and ofthe agencies felt that doing so helped them retain CHAs in their programs.Third, agencies considering the use of CHAs should review their working environments.It is clear thatthose agencies that considered their programs successful do not view CHAs as a source of cheap laborbut as valued members of the agency's team. A management approach that respects CHAs as individu als, respects their culture, provides support, remains trustworthy, and maintains open lines of communi cation enhances the CHAs self esteem, effectiveness, and ultimately their willingness to stay with theprogram. Previous research has shown the value of teaching these concepts to agency staff and securingtheir acceptance of CHAs as integral team members 20.Fourth, agencies should plan a recruitment strategy that includes selection criteria for CHAs and meth ods of identifying appropriate candidates. This survey did not include the characteristics that are mostvalued in CHAs, but desirable characteristics have been documented previously1,8,23 '29.The traditionalmethods of recruiting CHAs—word of mouth and networking referrals—are the most successful.Although these methods are labor intensive, they are reported as the most effective means of findingpeople who are already considered to be lay health advisors by their fellow community members.The results of this analysis underscore a need for further study to determine the number of programs inthe United States using community health advisors, the geographic distribution of such programs, thehealth related issues they address, the characteristics of the agencies that operate them, and the methodsof working with CHAs. This information would help in describing effective recruitment, training, andretention strategies and developing the best guidelines for working with CHAs.xviReferences1.Salber EJ. Lay health advisor as a community health resource. J Health Polit, Policy Law 3(4):469 478,Winter 1979.2.Israel BA, McLeroy KR. Introduction. Health Educ Q 12(1)1 4, Spring 1985.3.Levin LS. Lay health care: the hidden resource in health promotion. Health Promotion Monographs No.3, 26p, July 1983.4.Brownstein JN, Cheal N, Ackermann S, Bassford T, et al. Breast and cervical cancer screening inminority populations: a model for using lay health educators. J Cancer Educ 7(4):321 326, 1992.5.United States Department of Health and Human Services. Community health advisors: models, research,and practice.Selected annotations—programs in the United States, Vol II, Washington, DC, 1994.6.Gottlieb BH.Social networks and social support: an overview of research, practice, and policy implica tions. Health Educ Q 12(1)5 22, 1985.7.Leutz W. The informal community caregiver: a link between the health care system and local residents.Am J Orthopsychiatry 46(4):676 688, 1976.8.Eng E, Young R. Lay health advisors as community change agents. Fam Community Health 15(1)24 40,April 1992.9.Hoff W. Role of the community health aide in public health programs. Public Health Rep 84(11):998 1102, November 1969.10. Giblin PT. Effective utilization and evaluation of indigenous health care workers. Public Health Rep104:4, 361 368, 1989.11. Wallerstein N. Powerlessness, empowerment, and health: implications for health promotion programs.Am J Health Promotion 6(3): 197 205, 1992.12. Barnes MD, Fairbanks J. Problem based strategies promoting community transformation: implicationsfor the community health worker model. Fam Community Health 20(1)54 65, April 1997.13. Rosenthal EL, Wiggens N, Brownstein N, Johnson S, et al. The final report of the National CommunityHealth Advisor Study: weaving the future.University of Arizona, 1998.xvn14. Dean AG, Dean JA, Coulombier D, Brendel KA, et al. Epi Info, Version 5: a word processing, database,and statistics program for epidemiology on microcomputers.Centers for Disease Control and Preven tion, Atlanta, GA, USA, 199415. Strauss A, Corbin J. Basis of qualitative reseach: grounded theory, procedures, and techniques. SagePublicatons, Newberry Park, 1990.16. Maslanka H. Buronout, social support and AIDS volunteers. Aids Care 8(2)195 206, 1996.17. Larson K, McGuire J, Watkins E, et al. Maternal care coordination for migrant farmworker women:program structure and evaluation of effects on use of prenatal care and birth outcome.J Rural Health8(2):128 133, 1992.18. Sander Phillips K. A model for health promotion in ethnic minority families. Wellness Lecture Series,October 1991.19. Eng E, Hatch J, Callan A.Institutionalizing social support through the church and into the community.Health Educ Q 12(l):81 92, Spring 1985.20. Meister J, Warrick L, de Zapien J, et al. Using lay health workers: case study of a community basedprenatal intervention. Journal of Community Health 17(1): 37 47, 1992.21.Warrick H, Wood A, Meister J, et al. Evaluation of a peer health worker prenatal outreach and educationprogram for Hispanic farmworker families. J Community Health 17(1): 13 26, 1992.22. Pew Health Professions Commission. Community health workers: integral yet often overlooked mem bers of the health care workforce. University of California Center for the Health Professions, SanFrancisco, 1994.23. Watkins EL, Harlan C, Eng E, Gansky SA, et al. Assessing the effectiveness of lay health advisors withmigrant farmworkers. Fam Community Health 16(4):72 87, 1994.24. McFarlane J, Fehir J. De Madres a Madres: a community, primary health care program based on em powerment. Health Educ Q 21(2):388 394, 1994.25. Eng E. The save our sisters project: a social network strategy for reaching rural black women. CancerSupplement 72(3): 1071 1077, 1994.26. Wilkinson, DY. Indigenous Community Health Workers in the 1960's and beyond In Health issues in theblack community, edited by RL Braithwaite and SE Taylor, Jossey Bass Publishers, San Francisco, 1992,pp.255 266.27. Haraldson S. Alaskan community aide scheme: a successful rural health program. NY State J Medicine90(2):61 63, February 1990.xviii28. O'Hare Devereaux M, Reeves W, Curtis E. Alaskan health aide: a successful model of family andcommunity health. Fam Community Medicine3(2):7 1 84, August 1980.29. Werner D, Bower B. Helping health workers learn. The Hesperian Foundation, Palo Alto, CA, 1982.xixArticle 2Roles and Competencies of Urban and Rural Community Health Advisors:Findings and Implications for Practice from the National Community Health Advisor StudyJ. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.; Noel Wiggins, MSPH; E. Lee Rosenthal, MPH; Joel S. Meister, Ph.D.;Yvonne Lacey; Aminyah MuhammadJ. N. Brownstein is a Health Education Specialist, Centers for Disease Control, National Center forChronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Atlanta, GA. N. Wiggins is a Health ServicesSpecialist, Multnomah County Health Department, Portland, OR. E. Lee Rosenthal, MPH, is the Direc tor of the National Community Health Advisor Study, Tucson, AZ. Joel S. Meister, Ph.D., is ResearchAssociate Professor at the Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Tucson,AZ. Yvonne Lacey is a Community Health Worker Specialist in the Health Promotion Division, Healthand Human Services Department, Berkley, CA. Aminyah Muhammad is a Family Home Visitor, ForLove of Children/Healthy Families America, Washington, DC.The authors wish to acknowledge assistance provided by Robert A. Pollard, MA, of the National Centerfor Disease Control and Prevention and Jill Guernsey de Zapien and Maia Ingram of the University ofArizona Rural Health Office.Address correspondence to Nell Brownstein, Ph.D., Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 4770Buford Hwy, (K45), Atlanta, GA, 30341 3724, or e mailjnbl@cdc.gov.AbstractThe Community Health Advisor (CHA) outreach model has been used to provide health services andeducation in underserved urban and rural areas of developing countries around the world. In 1996 theAnnie E. Casey Foundation commissioned the National Community Health Advisor Study (NCHAS) toexamine and define four critical areas pertinent to the future of the CHA field in the United States. Thispaper presents NCHAS findings which are relevant to urban and rural CHA roles, competencies, andcareer development issues. The NCHAS conducted a literature review and collected data from estab lished CHA programs and CHAs in the field by conducting a survey of CHAs and CHA supervisors aswell as site visits, interviews, and focus groups. NCHAS identified seven roles for CHAs and specificpersonal qualities, skills, and abilities of effective CHAs. Differences between urban and rural CHAsare discussed. Recommendations are presented for addressing barriers to career advancement and roledefinition for CHAs.IntroductionFor many years in the United States, both public and private health agencies and organizations haveconducted health promotion and disease prevention campaigns.Despite intense efforts, a wide chasmcontinues to exist between the U.S. health care delivery system and members of many vulnerablexxipopulations the system seeks to serve. The passive medical model — in which providers wait at clinicsfor patients to arrive seeking help — is not effective for many reasons — some of them are cultural andmany of them are economic. 12 3 For example, in areas where free immunizations have been offered,immunization rates have nevertheless remained low. Where prenatal care has been available and afford able,it has not been used according to professional standards.Additionally, the recent trend toward amanaged health care system has not only shifted the provision of care for many persons supported byhealth care programs (e.g., Medicaid and Medicare) to managed care providers, but also put the burdenof proof of need on providers and patients. Furthermore, managed care providers recognize that re duced financial barriers will not necessarily ensure that persons eligible for care will access appropriateservices in a timely manner.To overcome barriers to health care, persons who deliver health promotion and disease preventionprograms and health care services must seek responsive and creative solutions. One solution is toinvolve local community members in community outreach that may provide transportation, child care,information, translation to languages other than English, and an attitude toward health that goes beyondtreatment of acute illness.One validated, effective, and inexpensive outreach model is the Community Health Advisor (CHA)model, which is not a new concept.4" 12 The model, which has been used to provide health services andeducation in underserved urban and rural areas of developing countries around the world, is exemplifiedby the Barefoot Doctor program in China. By the 1980s the CHA was generally a member of the targetcommunity who understood the community's health needs and concerns, was respected locally, hadaccess to and influence with community members, and provided a cultural and linguistic bridge be tween community residents and health and human services professionals. 10" 12 As health care systemshave changed, emphasis is given to preventive, primary, and managed care and has increased interest inusing CHAs to deliver community health services (e.g., referrals, education, and social support).Various titles are used to name Community Health Advisors including Lay Health Advisors,Promotoras, Lay Health Workers, Community Health Workers, Community Health Representatives, andPeer Health Educators. 612 These varied titles reflect the diversity of community health program goals,funding resources, and geographical locations but do not adequately describe the fluid roles of CHAs.The number of CHAs in the United States is unknown. The most comprehensive documentation ofCHA programs is found in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Combined HealthInformation Database, which contains profiles of over 200 programs representing more than 12,000CHAs. The largest program, the Indian Health Service's Community Health Representatives (CHR)Program, has 1,500 CHRs.6The growth in CHA programs outpaces CDC's efforts to update of thedatabase, which depends on the voluntary submission of program information.In 1996 the Annie E. Casey Foundation commissioned the National Community Health Advisor Study(NCHAS) to examine and define four critical areas pertinent to the future of the CHA field. These areasare: CHA core roles and competencies, evaluation strategies for CHA programs, career advancement forCHAs and the field as a whole, and CHAs role in the changing health care system. The aim of NCHASwas to address critical policy and program issues so that CHAs can continue to provide services toxxiicommunity members in need. This paper presents NCHAS findings, which are relevant to urban andrural CHA roles, competencies, and career development issues.MethodsThe NCHAS collected data from established CHA programs and CHAs in the field. The research wasguided by the Federal Technical Advisory Committee, members of the American Public HealthAssociation's New Professionals Special Primary Interest Group, NCHAS staff and consultants, andthe NCHAS Advisory Council. The Advisory Council consisted primarily of CHAs, but also includedprogram supervisors and CHA advocates. The Advisory Council assisted in interpreting qualitative data,reviewed the results, developed recommendations, and reviewed the final report. n A Readers Panel,composed of CHA researchers and other professionals and practitioners working in related fields, alsoreviewed our findings and recommendations.Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected by contacting CHA practitioners and researchers toobtain unpublished and published program evaluations, core competency curricula, and other materials.We also reviewed the CHA literature relevant to the study's four core areas.CHA and CHA Supervisor Survey Sample and MethodologyNCHAS staff and consultants developed a survey instrument that probed for information about pro grams and the four core areas of the Study. A random survey was not possible since not all CHAprograms could be identified. Thus we surveyed a nonprobability, convenience sample of CHA andCHA supervisors and consequently inferences can be made about respondents only and not all CHAsand CHA supervisors in the United States. The draft survey was pilot tested among practitioners whowere participants of the 1996 Arizona Statewide Community Health Advisor Training Conference. Toobtain a representative sample of CHAs the final survey was distributed at several conferences andtraining sessions and mailed to more than 80 U.S. programs. Responses were received from 150programs from 29 states. The survey was completed by 281 CHAs () and CHA supervisors (); of the supervisors were also working as CHAs.Site Visits, Interviews, Focus GroupsIn addition, data were collected during 12 program site visits conducted by NCHAS staff and consult ants. During some visits, focus groups with CHAs were supplemented by interviews with supervisorsand other staff and clients.The programs differed by type of health area covered and target populationaddressed.7Focus group and interview data were the primary qualitative data source for several com ponents of the study.Data AnalysisStaff at the University of Arizona's Rural Health Office coded and entered survey data and CDC staffanalyzed the data by using SAS software. Response variables for the open ended questions surveyxxinquestions and individual and focus group interviews were generated by sifting data for common themes(i.e., the constant comparative method of qualitative data analysis developed by Strauss and Corbin).13ResultsLiterature Review and Historical PerspectiveMost of the early U.S. literature about CHAs comes from urban programs, many of which were foundedas a part of the War on Poverty by the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO). Table1 presents anoverview of the terms used, role olayed, and competencies possessed or developed by CHAs in aconvenience sample of U.S. urban programs from the 1960s and 1970s. These programs were quitediverse. For example, in the Denver (1) and Tulsa (4) programs, CHAs had creative and responsibleroles educatingthe community about the health care system and vice versa, and in influencing theongoing design of programs. Advocacy was an explicit role of the CHAs in both programs, and in theDenver project, community organizing was another role. 1415The workers in both the Washington, DC (2), and Los Angeles (3) projects were called "aides" andtheir roles were circumscribed. In Washington, DC, the aides were hired "to alleviate a shortage ofprofessional health educators—rather than because of any unique skills they might possess." 16 Conse quently, aides were required to have a high school diploma and two years' experience in the health field.The goal of the Los Angeles program was to determine whether aides could be as successful as profes sionals in counseling parents about iron deficiency anemia. Entrance requirements and training wereminimal.17The Kaiser Permanente Neighborhood Health Center Project (5) was one of the first CHAprojects sponsored by a health maintenance organization (HMO).It foreshadowed some of the rolesand skills that managed care organizations foresee for CHAs. For example, recruitment of new planmembers and management of services used wereresponsibilities of the CHAs in the project.18Several similar competencies were sought by or developed in all five programs. These competenciesincluded communication skills, a relationship with the community, and knowledge of the communityand the health care system, and the workers were paid.Literature from the mid to late 1980s describes the development of rural CHA programs, many of whichwere strongly influenced by the literature and experience from CHA programs in the developing world.These programs did not require academic competency (e.g., a high school diploma) and emphasizedpersonal qualities, such as natural leadership skills and community respect.In the literature rural layhealth advisors (LHAs) were distinguished from urban outreach workers, who were characterized as"stopgap measures used to respond to a shortage of trained personnel."19Personal qualities sought inthe rural LHAs and promotoras included community membership, inquisitiveness, and a willingness tohelp others by sharing information.11 Being bilingual and biliterate was also viewed as important sincemany of the rural projects targeted Hispanic migrant communities. 20The rural workers provided healtheducation, advocacy, and referrals; conducted case finding; negotiated the health care system; linkedpeople with services; counseled clients; and organized communities.11 ' 20xxivTable1 . Titles, roles and competencies of CHAs in a sample of early U.S.programsProgram Nameand Date*Title UsedRoles andResponsibilitiesQualities and Skills**1) Denver, CO,Maternity andInfant Project(1967)Neighborhoodrepresentatives2) DC Departmentof Health MCHProject (1968)3) LA CountyGeneral HospitalProject (1969)4) Tulsa, OK,ImmunizationProject (1970)Health education aidesIndigenous health aidesIndigenous personnel• community organizing• linkage• mediation• advocacy• home visits• provision of educationalmaterials• motivation to seek care• health educationabout irondeficiency anemia• home visits• health education• motivation• education of health caresystemidentification with target groupcommunication skillsaccepted as neighborhoodmemberpossess work ethicvalue health carebe socially mobilewomen over age 35high school diploma2 yrs. appropriate experienceknowledge of the concept ofpublic healthknowledge of MCH issues andhealth care systemhigh school graduateknowledge about nutrition(importance of iron rich diet)frequent recommendation byexpert informantsability to conduct survey workunderstanding of: the rationaleof the project, the health dept.and clinic systems, andcommunicable diseases andimmunizations5) KaiserPermanenteNeighborhoodHealth CenterProject (1979)Outreach worker,neighborhood healthcoordinator• recruitment• health education• management ofservices used• referral to communityresourcesmeet OEO income criteriaindigenous to communitycommunication skillsunderstanding of the impor tance of preventive servicesunderstanding of health careand health education concepts* Dates refer to publication date of cited article.* Competencies include both recruitment criteria and skills taught in the program.xxvRoles of Community Health AdvisorsIn focus groups with CHAs and interviews with CHA supervisors, we found examples of rural andurban CHAs who play all of the following roles:1) bridging communities and the health and socialservice systems, 2) providing culturally appropriate and accessible health education and information, 3)ensuring that people received the services they need, 4) providing informal counseling and socialsupport, 5) advocating for individual and community needs, 6) providing direct service, and 7) buildingindividual and community capacity. Each of these roles includes several functions, which are delin eated in the NCHAS report. nCommunity organizing occurred in urban and rural CHA programs. At the Codman Square HealthCenter in Boston, for example, the service area was divided geographically, and a community healthworker was assigned to each zone. The workers surveyed to identify, and then worked with communitymembers to resolve important community issues. CHAs at Seattle's People of Color Against AIDSNetwork (POCAAN) used the title community organizer. CHAs' role as community organizers has alsobeen emphasized by academics and developers of rural LHA programs.5In both rural and urban programs some CHAs function both for the community and thehealth caresystem. Community Health Promoters (CHPs) from La Familia Sana, Inc., an independent CHAagency in Hood River, Oregon, regularly facilitated cultural competence workshops for medical andnursing students. CHPs employed by the Midwest Migrant Health Information Office presented similarworkshops for staff at clinics in Texas. Community organizers from POCAAN provided employeetraining in recognizing and resolving homophobia among workers at urban clinics and hospitals.The breadth of the role assigned to CHAs did not depend on whether the program was rural or urban.In some rural areas, culturally competent mental and physical health services are either nonexistent orvery limited.22, 23 Community need and program philosophy determined how broad the role may be.Thus, CHAs (e.g., La Familia Sana, Inc.) facilitated cultural competence workshops as well as taughthealth education classes, advocated for battered women's rightsin the court system, conducted atreatment program for men arrested for domestic violence, and led a support and education group forwomen with diabetes. Urban workers also frequently play a variety of roles, both because of a lack ofservices and because of the level of trust they often develop with clients. Although she was uncertainabout the appropriateness of CHAs providing counseling, the Co Director of Seattle's Birth to ThreeProgram agreed that the role was often unavoidable."I mean, it is a fine line because... they are notcounselors per se," Gengler stated. "On the other hand, [for] the women they work with... trust is suchan issue and it is so difficult to develop... But then they [CHAs] can also be a bridge to those otherprofessionals."The only difference we identified between the responsibilities of rural and urban CHAs involved theamount of provision of clinical service.Rural CHAs (e.g., the Camp Health Aides and promotoras desalud employed by the Midwest Migrant Health Information Office) tended to increase access to care byproviding more clinical services such as first aid and health screenings in homes and migrant laborcamps. Urban CHAs tend to provide clinical services in programs having a specific focus (e.g., bloodpressure measurements in hypertension programs and foot care in diabetes programs).xxviCompetencies of Community Health AdvisorsTo be effective in their work, both rural and urban CHAs need specific personal qualities, abilities, andskills (Tables 2a and 2b). We defined qualities as personal characteristics that can be enhanced but nottaught, and skills as learned abilities.Personal qualities such as friendliness, open mindedness, empa thy, and respect allowed CHAs to build the trusted relationships on which their work depends.Patience,flexibility, and persistence helped them deal with and surmount the barriers to care faced by theirclients.Initiative and reliability enabled them to carry out complex and self directed work. Theireffectiveness as role models depended on their honesty and willingness to grow and change.In our interviews and focus groups, both urban and rural CHAs and CHA supervisors agreed that arelationship to the community is one of the most important qualities of a CHA. An urban CHA fromSeattle stated that, "[as] an outreach worker, you come from your community and people look at you asa model." A rural CHA from Oregon echoed this sentiment, saying that, "[we] need to have lived, tohave experienced what the community has lived."Table 2a. Qualities of effective CHAs reported by respondents to the NCHASsurveyQualityFrequencyFriendly/outgoing/sociable/personable/like people/able to develop rapport82Patient56Open minded/non judgmental55Possessing initiative or motivation/self directed/self starter/independent/hard worker50Caring44Empathetic44Committed/dedicated43Respectful41Honest39Open/eager/able to grow/change/learn31Dependable/responsible/reliable31Compassionate28Flexible/adaptable26Desire to help people and/or community24Persistent23Creative/resourceful23* N = 281. Ten spaces were provided for answers to this question; some respondents provided more than ten.Percentages are not reported because of occasional double counting of respondents.xxvnTable 2b. Skills and abilities of effective CHAs reported by respondents tothe NCHAS surveyQualityFrequencyCommunication skills (general and speakingskills)public speaking skillsconflict resolution skillsability to use appropriate languageinterviewing skillsListening skills/attentivenessKnowledge about health issues and/or the health care systemWritingskillsability tofill out formsability to write reportsability to keep recordsAbility to identify and access resourcesCapacity building skillsleadership skillsempowerment skillsCultural sensitivity/ability to work with diverse classes and culturesBilingual skillsKnowledge about the communityaware of needs, problems, issues, dynamicsOrganizationalskillsability to set goals/prioritiesability to plantime management skillsPreparation/being well trainedAbility to maintain confidentiality/discretionAbility to work in a group/as a team memberClinical skillsability to take vital signsability to recognize signs of illnessability to administer first aidNetworking/coalition building skills19210372635454525048443631302722* N = 281. Ten spaces were provided for answers to this question; some respondents provided more than ten.Percentages are not reported because of occasional double counting of respondents.xxvmHowever, urban and rural CHAs and program staff differed in how they characterized the CHAs'relationship to the community.Staff in rural programs tended to define community membership interms of race or ethnicity and social class, while staff in urban programs defined it in terms of sharedexperience. For example, the Research Advocates (CHAs) in Seattle's Birth to Three Program musthave "something in their background... that allows them to directly relate to clients." But that some thing can be the experience of being a recovering alcoholic, and clients are not assigned to advocates onthe basis of race or ethnicity.Urban programs also tended to emphasize the ability to relate across cultures, fit into the surroundings,and use appropriate language. Many urban CHAs gave examples of situations in which they were ableto work effectively across cultures. Some CHAs stated that clients of other races preferred to work withthem rather than with someone from their own ethnic group. A staff member at San Francisco's Insti tute for Community Health Outreach spoke for many urban program developers:We do not see CHAs as natives with innate skills. We see them as professionals whohave skills that enable them to be culturally competent so that they can work withdiverse communities. For instance, certain sex workers may need a woman outreachworker, or new immigrants may need someone who is a fluent speaker of their language.But gay/lesbian Asian Americans may be more comfortable talking to someone fromoutside their community because the outreach worker may know their family.Our survey revealed a difference between the percentage of urban CHAs () and rural CHAs ()who matched their clients in race or ethnicity.Rural CHAs tended to work in isolated, homogenouscommunities. Most community members in a given program were immigrants from just three or fourMexican states.In most urban areas a multicultural, multiethnic environment made it more likely thatCHAs worked with diverse populations. For example, the community organizers at Seattle's POCAANwork with clients who are American Indians, blacks, Asian or Pacific Islanders, Hispanics, whites, or ofother racial or ethnic backgrounds.According to participants in our interviews and focus groups, both urban and rural CHAs also need a setof skills for (1) communication, (2) interpersonal relations, (3) service coordination, (4) capacity building, (5) advocacy, (6) teaching, and (7) organizational activities. CHAs also needed to understandcommunity needs, the health and social service systems, and health issues. All these skill and knowl edge categories are explained fully in the NCHAS report. 12For several decades, the CHA field has provided an entry point into both the paid and volunteerworkforce for many persons in low income communities who want to serve long term as CHAs or whowant to begin a career path toward other professions. In isolated, rural communities CHA programsoffer a unique opportunity for professional development for both paid and volunteer CHAs. CHAs gainaccess to training and an outlet for community service. Because access to other such opportunities maybe limited many CHAs expressed strong interest in continuing to serve long term.In focus groups, bothpaid and volunteer CHAs in rural communities often said that they saw the CHAs work as professionalwork. Both urban and rural survey respondents also saw the CHA role as professional (). Also,over of both rural and urban paid and volunteer CHAs held this point of view. However, for manyxxixurban CHAs, the position was a step in a career path to another profession. During site visits we notedthat more urban than rural CHAs are pursuing college degrees. However, some urban CHAs want toremain CHAs and sensed that their role must be better recognized and understood so that they can carryout their work more effectively. Both rural and urban CHAs were frustrated with a lack of career devel opment opportunities within CHA programs. Barriers to career advancement that the NCHAS identifiedwere lack of standardized training and lack of credit for training. Survey respondents supported volun tary certification () and standardization of CHA training (); and focus group members werealso supportive of these types of efforts.We found significant differences in the financial status of rural and urban CHAs. A smaller percentageof rural (74 %) than urban () CHAs were paid and the average wage for paid rural CHAs wasmuch lower than that for urban CHAs. Seventy one percent of the rural programs paid less that $10 anhour, but only of the urban did so. No paid urban CHA made less than $5 an hour but of paidrural CHAs did. These salary differences may be related to available resources; local funding was lessfor rural than urban programs. Rural programs obtained1 1 % of their funding from local privatesources, while urban programs received of their funding from these sources. Only of ruralprograms but of urban programs had local public funding.Forty eight percent of the urban CHAprograms and of the rural programs indicated that their programs had managed care contracts.Differences in funding levels may relate to other program factors; the median number of hours workedper week was 15 by CHAs in rural areas and 36.5 in urban areas.Discussion/ImplicationsOur review of the U.S. literature about CHAs reveals some differences between rural and urban CHAprograms. However,the roles played by and competencies sought in CHAs tended to depend on theunderlying philosophy of the program.If, as in the Denver project, workers were seen as communityexperts who could and should be doing program planning, then a specific set of skills and qualities weresought.If, however, workers were seen as aides or extenders then academic skills and the ability tointegrate into the system were emphasized.Our findings present clear implications for the development and management of urban CHA programs.Even in urban areas that have more health and human services availablerelative to rural areas, CHAsplay many roles. Therefore, CHA training needs to be broadly based; encompass physical, mental, andpsychosocial health; and must be responsive to CHAs' changing needs. At the same time the boundariesof CHAs responsibilities need to be clearly articulated.Urban CHAs will no doubt continue to work with clients from many different racial and cultural groups.Therefore, the ability to relate to people of different cultures should be emphasized in the recruitmentand training of urban CHAs.Further, community membership should be defined broadly in urban CHAprograms because experience may contribute more than race or ethnicity to a CHA's credibility andability to relate to clients.CHAs who have an intimate understanding of the communities in which they work are uniquely able toaddress basic determinants of health including food, shelter, employment, education, respect, andxxxdignity. CHA services differ from traditional medical services, which some say "have had little successin addressing these determinants of health."21 A limited role for CHAsprevents them from making thisunique contribution. Rather, CHAs must be integrally involved in program planning and evaluation andthey should be given opportunities to share their knowledge with other members of the health caresystem. CHAs' role in advocacy and community mobilization should be emphasized in urbanprograms.Part of the explanation for why urban CHAs tended to be paid and rural CHAs were not, lies in theways their roles have been defined.Since the 1960s, urban CHA jobs have been seen as entry levelpositions that offer residents a way out of poverty and or a first step up a career ladder. Payment ofsalary was never questioned.In contrast, rural programs were influenced by models from the develop ing world where CHAs were rarely paid.(In some of these programs, however, CHAs receive in kindpayment from neighbors who plant or harvest the CHAs' crops or offer other support.)In many ruralprograms, workers are expected to continue to migrate or do farmwork and share health information inthe course of their daily life. Some concern has been expressed that if CHAs are paid, their connectionto the community will be compromised, and they will be seen as a member of the "system."Both rural and urban programs can establish career paths in order to retain CHAs and support theircareer development. In one path, CHAs become specialists in a given health area (e.g., diabetes, mater nal and child health, cardiovascular disease). Another approach is to create different jobs within pro grams (e.g., CHA supervisor, in service trainer, training coordinator, or training specialists). To ad dress barriers to CHA career advancement, NCHAS recommends adoption of common standards forcore roles and competencies and related curriculum guidelines. 12 NCHAS also recommends voluntarynational certification of CHAs.12 These would aid in establishing the boundaries of CHA roles and inhelping CHAs achieve their personal goals.The primary role of CHAs is usually defined within the medical model as case finding bringing peopleinto the system for screening, education, and treatment; delivering health promotion messages, andproviding support to clients in homes and community settings.Discussion is ongoing among practitio ners as to whether CHAs should also be community change agents, whether their goal is empowerment,and whether they are primarily motivators rather than educators. The consensus among CHAs them selves is that they serve all these functions.Therole of the CHA continues to evolve in response to the communities in which they live. CHAsgenerally remain members of the community they serve but they are selected and supported by thehealth care system according to its needs. The relationship between the community and the contempo rary role of CHAs mirrors the paradigm shift from helping to health care.The uniqueness of NCHAS is its focus on the practitioners — CHAs and their supervisors. Theycontributed as members of a policy participatory research project as focus group participants and surveyrespondents to give meaningful insights into CHA programs and program issues. Additionally, asmembers of the NCHAS Advisory Board, they played an instrumental role in formulating recommenda tions that aim to promote and strengthen the CHA profession and field.12The involvement of CHAslends authenticity to the study of this field. CHAs collaborating on NCHAS have become united. Theyxxxiare newly committed to forming regional coalitions and a national organization. They feel strongly thatit is their time to be recognized, as evidenced by the renewed interest in the CHA field from managedcare organizations; funding agencies; local, state, and federal governmental agencies; and specialinterest groups. As one worker said at the 1996 American Public Health Association Meeting, "Wehave worked tirelessly in what seems at times a thankless job. We have paid our dues and it is now timethat our value is recognized and acknowledged as a viable member of the health care and servicesdelivery team."References1.Council on Scientific Affairs: Hispanic health in the United States. JAMA 265:248 257, 1991.2.Guendelman S: Developing responsivenss to the health needs of Hispanic children and families. SocialWork in Health Care 8:1 14, 1983.3.Trevino FM: Hispanic Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1982 84: findings on health status andhealth care needs. Am J Public Health (Supplement) 80:6 72, 1990.4.Ramirez A, McAllister A: Mass media campaign: a su salud. Prev. Med 17:608 621, 1988.5.US Department of Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Community healthadvisors: models, research, and practice: selected annotations, United States (Vol I), Atlanta, GA, 1994.6.US Department of Human Services, Centers for Disease Control: Community health advisors: programsin the United States, ( Vol II), Atlanta, GA, 1994.7.Earp JA, Viadro C, Vincus A, et al.: Lay health advisors: a strategy for getting the word out about breastcancer. Health Ed Behav 24(4):432 451, 1997.8.Koch E: Community Health Workers: a leadership briefon preventive health programs. HarrisonInstitute for Public Law at Georgetown University Law Center, Boston, May 1997.9.Pew Health Professions Commission: Community health workers: integral yet often overlooked membersof the health care workforce. San Francisco, 1993.10. Brownstein JN, Cheal N, Ackermann SP, Bassford TL, Campos Outcalt D: Breast and cervical cancerscreening in minority populations: a model for using lay health educators. J Cancer Educ 7(4):321 326, 1992.11. Eng E, Young R: Lay health advisors as community change agents. Fam Community Health 15(l):24 40,April 1992.XXXll12. Rosenthal EL, Wiggens N, Brownstein N, Johnson S, Borbon A, Rael R, Meister J, Guernsey de Zapien,Ingram M: The final report of the National Community Health Advisor Study: weaving the future.University of Arizona, 1998.13. Strauss A, Corbin J: Basics of qualitative research: grounded theory procedures and techniques.Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage, 1990.14. Kent JA, Smith H: Involving the poor in health services through accommodation: theemployment of neighborhood representatives. Public Health Rep 57(6):997 1003, 1967.15. Stewart JC, Hood WR: Using workers from "hard core" areas to increase immunization levels.Public Health Rep 85(2): 177 1 85, 1970.16. Conn RH: Using health education aides in counceling pregnant women. Public Health Rep83(1 1):979 982, 1968.17. Wingert WA, Larson WL, Friedman DB: Indigenous health aides as counselors to parentsabout nutrition. Public Health Rep 84(4):328 332, 1969.18. Colombo TJ, Freeborn DK, Mullooly JP, et al.: The effect of outreach workers'educational efforts on disadvantaged preschool children's use of preventive services.Am J Public Health 69(5):465 468, 1979.19. Harlan C, Eng E, Watkins E: Migrant lay health advisors: a strategy for health promotion. A paperpresented at the Third International Symposium: Issues in Health, Safety and Agriculture.Saskatchewan, Canada, 1992.20. Meister JS, Warrick LH, G de Sapien, et al.: Using lay health workers: case study of acommunity based perinatal intervention.J Community Health 17(1):37 51, 1992.21. Showstack J, Lurie N, Leatherman S, et al.: Health of the public: the private sector challenge. JAMA276(13):1071 1074, 1996.22. Aday LA: Hospital sponsored medical groups: their impact on access to primary care in ruralcommunities. J Community Health 10(3): 180 194, 1985.23. McCarthy M, Jacquart K, Quam L: Family planning, managed care, and rural America.Western J Med 163(3 Suppl):45 49, 1995.XXXlllIntroductionWhat does this publication contain?Community Health Advisors/Workers: Selected Annotations and Programs in the United States, VolumeIII contains bibliographic abstracts of journal articles, reports, literature, resource materials, and pro gram descriptions from the 1970s through the present. These entries were selected to provide informa tion to community health advisors with models, research, practice information, and health promotionand disease prevention programs on subjects such as breast and cervical cancer, heart disease, hyperten sion, nutrition, physical activity, pregnancy and prenatal care, and smoking prevention. Items wereobtained by searching computerized bibliographic databases and by contacting organizations currentlyconducting programs involving the use of community health advisors. Items also are listed in theHealth Promotion and Education Database and the Cancer Prevention and Control Database, subfiles ofthe Combined Health Information Database (CHID).What is CHID?CHID is a computerized bibliographic database of health information and health promotion resourcesdeveloped and managed by several federal agencies. This unique reference is for all health profession als who need to locate health information for themselves or their clients. Current CHID producersinclude the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Office ofDisease Prevention and Health Promotion, and the Health Resources and Services Administration.How can I access the databases?CHID and its subfiles, the Health Promotion and Education Database, the Cancer Prevention andControl Database, the Epilepsy Education and Prevention Activities Database, and the Prenatal Smok ing Cessation Database are available for online searching through the Internet at http://chid.nih.gov.The databases also are available through CDP File, a CD ROM produced by CDC's National Center forChronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion.Where can I get more information?Should you need for information on the database, CDP File, or CHID; wish to submit materials forpossible inclusion in the databases; or need additional copies of this publication, contact:Technical Information and Editorial Services BranchCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford Hwy, NE, Mailstop K 13Atlanta, GA 30341 3717(770) 488 5080XXXVQuestions on programmatic issues may be directed to:J. Nell Brownstein, Ph.D.Division of Adult and Community HealthNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionCenters for Disease Control and Prevention4770 Buford Hwy, NE, Mailstop K 45Atlanta, GA 30341 3717(770) 488 5440jnbl@cdc.govxxxviHow to Use This PublicationArrangement ofItemsItems in this publication are arranged in two sections, Selected Annotations (Section I) and Programs inthe United States (Section II). Within each section there are several subsections arranged by subject.Items in each part are listed in alphabetical order by title. The items are numbered sequentially, begin ning with 001.IndexesThis publication contains three indexes for each Section. For Section I, the Title Index lists documenttitles, the Author Index lists personal and corporate authors, and the Subject Index lists selected keywords describing the content of publications. For Section II, the Title Index lists program titles, theProgram Coordinator Index lists program directors and program contacts, and the Subject Index listsselected key words describing the content of programs.If you know the title of a publication or pro gram, use the Title Index.If you are looking for a publication produced by a person or agency, use theAuthor Index.If you are looking for a program conducted by a particular person, use the ProgramCoordinator Index.If you want to identify items in a specific subject area, use the Subject Index.Data ElementsA citation and abstract are listed for each item in this publication. Data elements for Section I includethe item number, title, form, author or corporate author, source and availability when noted, abstract,and CHID accession number.012Bringing Providers to the People: Alaska and aFlorida County Blaze New Trails in Non PhysicianCare Delivery.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(3):56, 58,60, February 5, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describes Alaska'sCommunity Health Aide Program, which trains villageresidents to deliver emergency and primary preventivecare to villagers who live hundreds of miles from thenearest hospital and physician.Volunteers used by thefederal government to dispense medications during thetuberculosis epidemic in the 1950's eventually becameknown as community health aides (CHA's). Today, morethan 400 CHA's, village residents who are selected bymembers of the community, provide health care to45,000 people in Alaska's 171 villages. CHA's musthave at least a sixth grade reading level and knowledgeof math. They participate in a 4 month session ofclassroom instruction and skills practice to learn basichistory taking, physical assessment, and diagnosticskills. Before they begin practicing independently, theymust complete 2 to 3 years of clinical observation byphysicians. The state contributes $2 million annually intraining funds to the CHA project, but most fundingcomes from the Indian Health Service, a federal agencythat delivers and oversees care through Alaska's 12Native Health Corporations. The CHA program hasbrought about a dramatic improvement in the Alaskanpopulation's health status over the past decade, promptingmarked declines in cases of hepatitis B, gonorrhea, andrheumatic fever. Health officials in Pinellas County,Florida, have proposed that the county follow Alaska'slead by expanding their own emergency medicalxxxvnpersonnel and allowing paramedics to deliver primaryhealth services to the indigent. Officials have beenunable to implement the program, however, because ofpractice and licensing laws and other barriers.(HE9700078)Among the data elements included for Section II are the program name, program contact, agency,program dates, health topics addressed, target population, and CHID accession number.ProgramContactAgencyProgram DatesDelivery SitesFunding Source(s)Primary PurposeServices OfferedMaterials UsedHealth Topic(s) AddressedGeographic Area/UnitProgram SettingTarget PopulationCHA TitleCHA RolesCHA TrainingCHA Compensation204Breast and Cervical Cancer Education.Carcar, Noemi.Mercy Mobile Health Care, 60 11th Street, Atlanta, GA 30309.(404)249 8104.March 1995 continuing.Homes, community sites, hospital/medical clinic.Fannie Mae Foundation, Avon Foundation.To educate low income Hispanic and Asian American women about earlydetection of breast and cervical cancer to make referrals for clinicalexaminations.Patient outreach and education, cancer detection tests.Shower cards, handouts/brochures, breast model, cervix model.Breast and cervical cancer.Multicounty.Community based agency, religious institution, hospital.Low income Hispanic and Asian American women living in a five county areain Georgia.Outreach worker, resource specialist.Outreach, health promotion/education, follow up.40 hours of initial training and1 hour per month of inservice training.$8.50 per hour plus health insurance, tuition reimbursement, and mileagereimbursement.xxxvmNumber of CHA'sNumber of ClientsServed in 12 MonthsEvaluation PlanMethods Used toRecruit CHA'sMethods Used toRetain CHA'sMethods Used toRecruit ClientsMethods Used toRetain ClientsCHID Accession Number3.1,053.Yes.Networking with community based organizations, internal posting ofjob opportunities, word of mouth.Educational opportunities, health benefits.Outreach/education, clinical services.Case management follow up, employee dedication and persistence.CP96P0481.Obtaining Additional InformationThis publication provides source and availability information for each item when noted. For moreinformation about a program or publication, contact the agencies or persons listed.xxxixSECTION IThe Community Health Advisor/WorkerConceptual Models001Community Health Workers:IntegralMembers of the Health Care Work Force.Form:Journal article.Authors: Witmer, A.; Seifer, S.D.; Finocchio,L.; Leslie, J.; O'Neil, E.H.Source: American Journal of Public Health.85(8): 1055 1058, August 1995.Abstract: The authors describe the role of thecommunity health worker (CHW) in thechanging health care delivery system. CHW'sare broadly defined as community memberswho work almost exclusively in communitysettings and who serve as connectors betweenhealth care consumers and providers to promotehealth among groups that have traditionallylacked access to adequate care.Historically,partnerships have formed with community based care systems such as community andmigrant health centers, homeless health careprograms, and public health departments. Morerecently, CHW programs have developedpartnerships with academic medical centers andmanaged care organizations. CHW's havecontributed to the delivery of primary andpreventive care by increasing access to healthcare for high risk populations in underservedareas, improving the quality of care, reducingthe costs of care, and contributing tocommunity empowerment and growth.Barriersto the use of CHW's include (1) the lack of astandard definition and conceptualization ofwho CHW's are and what they do, (2) the lackof legitimacy granted to CHW's by degreedhealth professionals, and (3) the lack of securefunding. Recommendations for strengtheningand expanding the use of CHW's include (1)creation of a national forum of CHW programsand a national clearinghouse to facilitate thedissemination of information to policymakers,health care delivery organizations, anddeveloping programs; (2) development of aCHW/community partnerships grant programwith funds from federal or private organizationsto expand and strengthen existing programs andcreate new ones; (3) provision of federalgovernment funds for basic research on CHW'sand randomized trials of CHW interventions;and (4) creation of opportunities for continuingeducation, professional recognition, and careeradvancement for CHW's. 37 references.(HE9600948)002Community Outreach and CommunityMobilization: Options for Health at theU.S. Mexico Border.Form:Paper.Author:Meister, J.S.Source:Phoenix, AZ, Arizona Department ofHealth Services, 10 p., April 1996.Abstract:This paper offers a rationale forspecialized efforts to increase health care accessalong the U.S. Mexico border. The authorargues that two models, community outreachand community mobilization, can beimplemented successfully. Communityoutreach programs aim to overcome problemssuch as lack of transportation or child care, lackof information, lack of fluency in English, and aview of health and illness that defines care asappropriate for treatment of acute or emergencycare only. The most highly developedcommunity outreach model is usually referredto as the promotora, or community healthadvisor. Community mobilization modelsThe Community Health Advisor/Workerstress high participation by communitymembers and are generally based on the ideathat health, including access to health care, is asystemic problem and the solutions must besystemic. The models incorporate outreach andenable community members to educatethemselves about health problems and solutionsand then bring about changes in communitynorms and practices. The proposed programwill use volunteer community health advisors tofocus on family based individual problemswithin the community. The integration of thesetwo models, both focusing on health care accessissues, would be a natural development inattempts to improve the quality of life on theborder. The models can be joined by theinclusion of outreach specialists into thecommunity mobilization type of program. Theauthor concludes that integration of thecommunity outreach and communitymobilization models, coupled with emphasis onseven thematic issues, can work to increaseaccess to health care services in the U.S. Mexico border region. This seven issues are:(1) culture of the border, (2) professional/community interface, (3) indigenous leadership,(4) expanding the definition of health, (5)immigration/migration, (6) transborder use, and(7) economic development.(HE9700617)003Conceptual Framework for Considerationin the Utilization of Health Aides.Form:Journal article.Author:Callan, L.B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.61(5):979 987, May 1971.Abstract: The author modified the SchoolHealth Education Study Model (SHES) todevelop a conceptual framework for use inhealth programs, focusing initially on the use ofindigenous aides. The author discusses thesteps an organization should follow todetermine whether to use health aides. Anaccurate, realistic identification of needs iscritical. Planning requires (1) an articulatedgoal, (2) assessment of resources, (3)commitment to meet the need, and (4)establishment of priorities. The next step isaide employment. A functional analysis shouldestablish (1) what needs to be done, (2) whatthe purpose is, (3) who might best perform thetasks, and (4) how the tasks can best beperformed. A job description should use basedon this analysis. The next step is recruitment,selection, and training of the aide.Pretrainingof potential supervisors is essential.Vital keysto the success of any training program are theselection of faculty and implementation andevaluation of the training, which depends on theterms of the job description and/or entry levelof each employee.It may involve acombination of academic training, on the jobtraining, weekly meetings with the projectdirector, and quarterly seminars attended by allthe aides and supervisors.Supervision isanother important process. The supervisors'assumptions can lead to successfulaccomplishment of organizational andindividual goals. The selected supervisory styleshould be a reflection of how an individualwould prefer to be supervised himself. Otherimportant considerations are when and howoften supervision can be exercised andcommunication within the supervisoryframework. A final important process isevaluation. To accurately evaluate the program,one must consider the goals of the endeavor tojudge quantitative results in light of changedbehavior and new behavioral practices. Theauthor concludes that not all health programpersonnel are equipped to involve aides in theirprograms and that the use of aides would beunsuitable in some health agencies andorganizations. 2 figures, 24 references.(HE9700310)Conceptual Models004Enhancing the Role of Community HealthWorkers in Research.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hill, M.N.; Bone, L.R.; Butz, A.M.Source: IMAGE:Journal of NursingScholarship.28(3):221 226, Fall 1996.Abstract: The authors discuss the need toenhance the role of community health workers(CHW's) in research. With the shift to moreprimary care, CHW's should be an integral partof health care teams, yet they are oftenoverlooked. They can serve as cross culturalagents and liaisons among the community, thehealth care system, and academic institutionsand can enhance investigators' access tocommunity leaders, resources, and studypopulations. Thus, they enrich thecomprehensiveness of a holistic scientificapproach to understanding health in acommunity. CHW's can assume one or more ofthe following roles: (1) research assistant, (2)recruitment coordinator, (3) data collector, (4)interventionist, and (5) project coordinator.Successful integration of the CHW's into theresearch team requires addressing (1) positioncharacteristics, (2) selection criteria andprocess, (3) training, (4) supervision, (5)retention, and (6) capacity building and careerdevelopment. Before deciding to use CHW's inresearch projects, administrators should beaware of the challenges and costs involved inthe use of CHW's, such as differences inacademic and community priorities andbalancing research productivity with CHWperformance and career development. Thebenefits of using CHW's (volunteer or paid) inresearch are (1) increased cultural sensitivity,(2) increased generalizability, (3) enhancedrecruitment and retention, and (4) potential costsavings. The authors conclude that thetransition from research to service still requiresrigorous evaluation.1 table, 38 references.(HE9700612)005Health and Rehabilitation ManpowerStrategy: New Careers and the Role of theIndigenous Paraprofessional.Form:Journal article.Author: Smith, R.T.Source:Social Science and Medicine.7(4):281 290, April 1973.Abstract: A strategy to alleviate the acutehealth manpower shortage in the United Statesinvolves increasing the supply of allied andauxiliary health personnel and developing newtypes of paraprofessional roles that serve tosupplement the health professionals. One of theinnovative health manpower approachesinvolves employing persons of low income orundereducation in human services fields, withprovisions for job upgrading through work study programs.Essential components of thisnew careers model include (1) full timeemployment; (2) on the job skill training; (3)remedial and postsecondary educationaltraining with release time to engage in thisactivity; (4) career ladder advancement throughprogressive job opportunities requiring higherlevels of skill and greater responsibility; (5)supportive service during training (e.g., childcare, welfare, and medical assistance); and (6)agency job commitment and placement oncompletion of training. The attainment ofjobskills and knowledge, combined with formaleducational achievement, provides a newpathway to paraprofessional status in the alliedhealth manpower sector. The worker canpursue a dual track of job advancement, throughwork and education, somewhat akin to thesystem used in the military and private industry.The new careers model is part of a more generalchange strategy in the development and use ofThe Community Health Advisor/Workerindigenous paraprofessionals in the health careand rehabilitation system. This strategy definesthe role of the new paraprofessional in terms offour broadly conceived functions: (1) bridgingor linking, (2) client advocacy, (3) helpertherapy, and (4) change agent. As a strategy forincreasing the number of allied health workersand for providing the disadvantaged with careerjob opportunities, the new careers model hasmet with limited success, perhaps because oflack of program implementation rather thaninherent defects of this model. Still unclear isthe extent to which these programs are viableand functionally relevant to the long range goalof providing comprehensive and continuousservice to those in need in the community.2 tables, 39 references. (HE9700305)006Health Care and Community Action.Form:Journal article.Author: Donoso, G.Source: WHO Chronicle.32(3): 102 105,March 1978.Abstract:In most developing countries, thegoal of health for all by the year 2000 will notbe achieved unless effective, low cost healthcare is put into practice and untappedmanpower and other community resources areused. The greatest health gap in developingcountries is among children under age 5 yearsand by extension their pregnant or nursingmothers. The World Health Organization(WHO) has identified the need to redirectresources from conventional disease orientedcurative programs to preventive communityhealth programs designed to improve the healthstatus of underserved people. Communityparticipation and self reliance are essential toprimary health care. Community resourcesmust be supplemented by essential supplies,technical supervision and training, and a systemfor the referral of severe cases to higher healthcenters. Health programs should emphasizelow cost activities that have a proven effect onreducing sickness and death. Programs shouldrely on local people trained to carry outactivities and to promote communityorganization for health. The community mustaccept the work and advice of the trainedcommunity health worker. Continuous trainingand supervision of community health workersare essential to improve their technical abilitiesand their standing in the community. WHO hasestablished these priorities:(1) Preconceptual,prenatal, natal, and postnatal care; (2) familyplanning; (3) promotion of healthy growththrough protecting children's nutritional statusduring the first 5 years of life; (4) treatment andprevention of infections in mothers andchildren; and (5) promotion of family self reliance in health care through health education.WHO is collaborating with member states in(1) improving support from the central level bygiving family health needs the highest place inhealth planning and in the administration andallocation of resources; (2) training teacherswho will train community health workers andauxiliary personnel; (3) developing guidelines,curricula, and manuals adapted for thecommunity level; (4) improving treatment andprevention of acute diarrheal diseases; (5)making available information and services forfertility regulation; (6) encouraging improvedcare during pregnancy and childbirth throughthe training of auxiliary and traditionalmidwives; (7) promoting improved nutrition aspart of family health; (8) promoting health andnutrition education aimed at breaking the linksbetween malnutrition, infection, anduncontrolled childbearing; and (9) promotingexpanded programs of immunization.4 references. (HE9700088)Conceptual Models007High Risk Vulnerable Populations andVolunteers: A Model of Education andService Collaboration.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hutchison, R.R.; Quartaro, E.G.Source:Journal of Community HealthNursing.12(2): 11 1 1 19, 1995.Abstract:Health educators present a model ofcollaboration between education and serviceorganizations for the preparation of volunteers,who caring for high risk vulnerablepopulations, such as frail elderly persons,homeless persons, persons with chronic mentalillness, and persons with acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Factorsthat contribute to successful collaborationinclude (1) the ethos of volunteerism; (2) thecongruence of the missions of education andservice institutions; (3) the maturity of thecollaborating organizations; (4) structuralsimilarities and differences; (5) accreditationand standard setting requirements; (6)homogeneity of clients, caregivers, and faculty;and (7) ethical, social, and legal issues.Volunteers include elderly, student,professional, and retired people and people ofall ethnic, racial, religious, and socioeconomiclevels. Professionals need help to empowervolunteers to meet the needs of high riskvulnerable populations. The broader themissions of the educational institution and theservice agency, the greater the likelihood thattheir purposes will encompass each other.Identification of common ground between theorganizations is the foundation of collaboration.The presence of highly professional staff atevery level of mature organizations lessens thelead times and the preparatory interactionsneeded by the personnel involved. Tolerance ofthe zone of discretion of each organization andan ability to negotiate the unanticipateddifferences and grey areas will advance thegoals of the collaboration.Structuralsimilarities and differences of collaboratingorganizations that must be considered includesize, time, space, degree of formality, andhierarchial versus collegial organizationalmodels. The early determination of sources ofpotential conflicts and their management arekey to sustaining accreditation standards whilesupporting experimentation. Awareness of theneed for homogeneity of cultures, especiallyethnicity, is crucial to the collaborative effort.The cultural context includes age, sex,socioeconomic status, sexual orientation,religion, and health attitudes and practices.Ethical and social issues in working with high risk vulnerable populations includeconfidentiality and perceived threats of harm.Contracts with the collaborating organizationsshould be as explicit as possible to guaranteeshared and mutual understanding of the roles,goals, outcomes, and means of assessment ofprogram effectiveness; contracts also limit therisks to which the collaborators and theirrespective sites are exposed.1 table,16 references. (HE9700089)008Lay Health Advisor InterventionStrategies: A Continuum From NaturalHelping to Paraprofessional Helping.Form:Journal article.Authors: Eng, E.; Parker, E.; Harlan, C.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4):413 417, August 1997.Abstract: More public health professionals areexploring the strategy of working through layhealth advisors (LHA's) to contact communitiesconsidered hard to reach and to establishmeaningful linkages to the service deliverysystem. A lay health advisor is one who isindigenous to the community and acts as a linkThe Community Health Advisor/Workerbetween community members and the servicedelivery system. Whether called communityhealth advisors, community health workers,health aides, natural helpers, navigators,paraprofessionals, peer educators, promotoras,or outreach workers, LHA's share three basicprinciples of public health practice:(1) thebasic assumption that social networks throughwhich community members offer and receivesocial support among one another is a naturalresoure available in most communites; (2) therole of the practitioner is to recruit, train, andsupport community members who can directlyreach and offer social support to those in need;and (3) the role of the recruited and trainedcommunity members is to bridge the agencies'formal service delivery system and thecommunities' informal social support system.LHA intervention strategies range frominformal to formal helping. At the formal endof the continuum is the paraprofessional LHAstrategy, which involves individuals carryingout tasks that would normally be carried out bypractitioners. At the other end of the continuumis the natural helping LHA strategy. Naturalhelpers are people with a reputation in thecommunity for good judgment, sound advice, acaring ear, and discretion. These people oftendo not meet the qualifications set by an agency,although they help people in their socialnetworks with needs that cannot be met by thehealth system and they negotiate withprofessionals for support from the healthsystem. The natural helping of these LHA'sprovides a community based system of care andsocial support that complements the morespecialized functions of health professionals.1 figure, 8 references. (HE9701115)009Problem Based Strategies PromotingCommunity Transformation: Implicationsfor the Community Health Worker Model.Form:Journal article.Authors:Barnes, M.D.; Fairbanks, J.Source: Family and Community Health.20(l):54 65, April 1997.Abstract: The problem posing techniquesdescribed by Paulo Freire provide a model forcommunity transformation with the potentialfor community health workers (CHW's) to actas key agents of change. Community memberscan best identify relevant health problems anddevelop realistic plans to address them.Problem posing is a participatory process inwhich organized community groups andfacilitators collaborate through dialogue, criticalthought, problem identification, and grassrootssolutions to promote community change. Thisapproach shifts the locus of control from theexperts to the participants or learners. TheFreire problem posing approach promotes thelearner as a full participant and encouragesconsensus building, sharing, and respect forothers' values and opinions.It shares severalcharacteristics with problem based learning:(1) relevant issues and problems influenceparticipation, (2) participants are both learnersand teachers, (3) participants identify and solveproblems, (4) participants learn through self discovery, (5) the process is a cycle of reflectionand action, and (6) community transformationis carried out by the community membersthemselves. CHW's are in a prime position toassist in problem posing activities that lead tocommunity empowerment and transformation.They have a clear understanding of communityproblems and resources and can reachunderserved populations. To enable CHW's tofunction as partners in communityempowerment efforts, CHW training curriculaConceptual Modelsshould provide opportunities for CHW's tolearn the subject matter and apply it to realsituations through problem based learningtechniques. CHW's trained in these techniqueswould then be able to model problem posingfor groups in their communities.In addition,CHW's should be encouraged to facilitateproblem solving groups in their communities toresolve immediate community problems.35 references. (HE9700781)010Relationship Between Community HealthWorkers, the Health Services, and theCommunity.Form:Journal article.Author:Flahault, D.Source: WHO Chronicle.April 1978.needs and priorities, (2) organizing communityaction, (3) designating responsible persons asCHW's, (4) providing support to the CHW's,(5) participating in evaluation of communityhealth services, and (6) linking health actionswith broader community goals. For their part,health services must (1) review and agree onactions taken by the community; (2) providetraining for CHW's and their teachers; (3)supervise and continue the education of healthworkers; (4) provide support, including referralfacilities; and (5) participate in evaluation.Communities and health services must worktogether to plan and implement CHWprograms.In this way, both communities andhealth services will share the responsibility ofensuring the health of the community.8 references. (HE9700087)32(4): 149 153,Abstract: The roles and responsibilities ofcommunity health workers (CHW's) indifferent parts of the world vary according tothe size of the community. In a developed areaCHW's can include the family doctor,pharmacist, dispensary nurse, midwife, orsocial worker; in a rural area of a developingcountry, CHW's can include the medical orveterinary assistant, auxiliary nurse, traditionalbirth attendant, or traditional healer. AllCHW's provide primary health care. Manyparticipate in developmental activitiesconcerning the individual, community, andcountry. CHW's may be defined as modestlytrained male or female health workers livingwithin the community and working in liaisonwith the health services of the country. Theymay be full or part time and paid or volunteerworkers. The village health committee in adevelping country is a local organization thatcan link the village community and healthservices. The roles of such local communityorganizations include(1) identifying healthThe Community Health Advisor/WorkerApplications and MethodsOilAlliances of Professionals andParaprofessionals: Who Owns the Turf?(Editorial Response).Form:Journal article.Authors: Reim, G.; Osborne, O.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(ll):759 760, November 1975.Abstract:This is an editorial response to anarticle by Dr. Oliver Osborne entitled "Issues inAchieving Effective Professional Alliances" anda rebuttal by Dr. Osbourne. The author statesthat while Dr. Osborne admits the importantrole of paraprofessionals, he views their role tobe somewhat in contention with standard healthprofessionals. The author disagrees with Dr.Osborne's apparent claim that paraprofessionalsare often incompetent, and states that evencurrent licensing requirements in many healthfields do not guarantee competency. Hesuggests that paraprofessional workers shouldnot be viewed as in competition withprofessionals, and therefore should not bepushed into getting the same academic degrees.In addition, the author suggestsparaprofessionals that should be paid more thanthey are currently paid.In his response, Dr.Osbourne points out that his paper was notoriginally meant as a research paper, but ratheras a speech discussing the issues that hinder orcould potentially hinder interprofessionalalliances.Dr. Osborne voices his disagreementwith the author's view that professionals shouldbe willing to share their turf withparaprofessionals. He notes that the type oftraining a paraprofessional has received andexperience of working in the field are just asimportant as a degree or certificate.Paraprofessionals, Dr. Osborne states, willnever agree to pursue a different set ofcredentials than that currently sought byprofessionals. (HE9700328)012Bringing Providers to the People: Alaskaand a Florida County Blaze New Trails inNon Physician Care Delivery.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(3):56, 58, 60, February 5, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describesAlaska's Community Health Aide Program,which trains village residents to deliveremergency and primary preventive care tovillagers who live hundreds of miles from thenearest hospital and physician. Volunteers usedby the federal government to dispensemedications during the tuberculosis epidemic inthe 1950's eventually became known ascommunity health aides (CHA's). Today, morethan 400 CHA's, village residents who areselected by members of the community, providehealth care to 45,000 people in Alaska's 171villages. CHA's must have at least a sixth grade reading level and knowledge of math.They participate in a 4 month session ofclassroom instruction and skills practice tolearn basic history taking, physical assessment,and diagnostic skills. Before they beginpracticing independently, they must complete 2to 3 years of clinical observation by physicians.The state contributes $2 million annually intraining funds to the CHA project, but mostfunding comes from the Indian Health Service,a federal agency that delivers and oversees careThe Community Health Advisor/Workerthrough Alaska's 12 Native Health Corporations.The CHA program has brought about a dramaticimprovement in the Alaskan population's healthstatus over the past decade, prompting markeddeclines in cases of hepatitis B, gonorrhea, andrheumatic fever. Health officials in PinellasCounty, Florida, have proposed that the countyfollow Alaska's lead by expanding their ownemergency medical personnel and allowingparamedics to deliver primary health services tothe indigent. Officials have been unable toimplement the program, however, because ofpractice and licensing laws and other barriers.(HE9700078)013Changes in Empowerment:Effects ofParticipation in a Lay Health PromotionProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors: Booker, V.K.; Robinson, J.G.; Kay,B.J.; Najera, L.G.; Stewart, G.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4):452 464, August 1997.they entered the program but before trainingbegan; (2) 4 to 8 months later; and (3) at theend of the second harvest season,approximately1 6 months after the programbegan. The questionnaire included questionsconcerning (1) life experiences, (2) experiencesas a farmworker, (3) likes and dislikes offarmwork, (4) goals, (5) health relatedproblems of farmworkers, (6) actions theywould take in case of an accident or illness, (7)what people could do to stay healthy and thelikelihood of carrying out these behaviors, and(8) expectations about being a CHA. Theresearchers found that most of the advisorsexhibited some increase in personalempowerment during the study period.Findings indicate that there may be additionalbenefits to lay health promotion programsbeyond increasing access to health care andproviding culturally appropriate healtheducation to underserved communities.Changes in the personal empowerment ofparticipants, while difficult to measureprecisely, are important program benefits.1 3 references . (HE970 1117)Abstract: The Camp Health Aide Program is alay health promotion program for migrant andseasonal farmworkers designed to increaseaccess to health care while aiding in leadershipdevelopment and empowerment of individualfarmworkers through training and experience aslay health promoters. Since its inception in1985, more than 250 migrant farmworkers weretrained as camp health aides to provide healtheducation, first aid, referrals for health andsocial services, and translation services for theirfriends, neighbors, and coworkers.In 1992, theauthors examined how participation in theprogram affects the lay health promoters. Theauthors conducted in depth interviews with agroup of community health advisors (CHA's) atthree project sites in Arizona, Florida, and NewJersey at three points in time:(1) shortly after014Community Based Primary Health CareProgram for Integration of Research,Practice, and Education.Form: Book chapter.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Swider, S.M.;Norr, K.Source:In: Curriculum Revolution:Community Building and Activism. NationalLeague for Nursing. New York, NY, NationalLeague for Nursing Press, pp. 77 90, 1991.Abstract: This chapter describes the PrimaryHealth Care in Urban Communitiesdemonstration project in Chicago, Illinois. Theprogram focuses on the development of auniversity setting that responds to the primary10Applications and Methodshealth care concerns of an urban population andthat uses the expertise of the project staff inwomen's health research and education to bettertheir understanding of women's healthproblems and their resolution. Communityresidents were recruited to become communityhealth workers, working in teams withcommunity health nurses. The nurse/advocateteams conduct community assessments andwork in community locations, including aclinic, church basement, and school. Theauthors note that developing a community based nursing practice that integrates thetraditional university functions of research,service, and education is consistent with theWorld Health Organization's 1984 resolution onthe role of universities in contributing to humandevelopment and social justice. (HE9600950)015Community Empowerment in RuralHealth Care.Form:Journal article.Authors: May, K.M.; Mendelson, C;Ferketich, S.Source:Public Health Nursing.12(l):25 30,February 1995.Abstract:Researchers designed a communityhealth nursing project with three interventions:community enpowerment, personalizedpreventive nursing, and organized indigenouscaregiving. The article discusses theintervention that involved communityempowerment to address the health needs ofsmall, rural, underserved, primarily HispanicAmerican communities in Arizona. Thecommunity empowerment interventioninvolved the use of community health nursesand lay health workers to identify healthpriorities and plan and implement healthprograms. During the project's early stages,staff and community members sponsored ahealth fair at a major community fiesta, wherethey provided health education, offeredscreening tests, and collected healthinformation from the 60 attendees. Afterestablishing relationships with communitymembers and informing them about the project,the community health nurse and lay healthworkers planned community empowermentstrategies, including a second health fair, inresponse to concerns about heart disease,diabetes, risk factor identification, and low costblood screening. Three hundred people attendedthe second health fair. Both fairs providedhandouts and discussion offered and occultblood tests and cardiac risk profiles. Thesecond health fair also offered immunizationsand appointments for low cost mammographyscreening. Although attendance at the firsthealth fair was lower than hoped, feedbackindicated participants' satisfaction. Thecommunity health nurse and the lay healthworkers based their evaluation of the secondfair on attendance, community involvement,and degree of satisfaction reported byparticipants. The fair exceeded expectations ofattendance and level of communityinvolvement. Informal feedback indicatedsatisfaction with the services provided.Researchers could not evaluate the immediateeffect of the fair on community health andempowerment. 26 references. (HE9500589)11The Community Health Advisor/Worker016Community Facilitator ImplementationManual.Form: Manual.Corporate Author:University of SouthernMississippi, Center for Community Health.Source:Hattiesburg, MS, University ofSouthern Mississippi, Center for CommunityHealth, Community Health Advisor Network,56 p., 1996.Abstract: The Community FacilitatorImplementation Manual provides step by stepinstructions on how to implement the FreedomFrom Hunger/Community Health AdvisorNetwork (CHAN), located in Hattiesburg,Mississippi. The manual includes informationabout (1) entering a community and buildingbroad based support for an initiative, (2)identifying community members who aredesignated by their peers as natural helpers, (3)recruiting natural helpers to participate in acommunity development project, (4) buildingconsensus about community problems that needto be addressed, (5) training volunteers to betteraddress community problems, (6) supportingvolunteer efforts, and (7) building linkagesbetween volunteers and service providingagencies in the community. The manualcontains eight chapters. (HE9700746)017Community Health Advisor Program:Training Curriculum.Form: Teaching guide.Corporate Author:University of SouthernMississippi, Center for Community Health.Source:Hattiesburg, MS, University ofSouthern Mississippi, Center for CommunityHealth, Community Health Advisor Network,238 p., n.d.Abstract:This curriculum is designed to trainmembers of the community to be CommunityHealth Advisors who will work to improveindividual and community health and nutritionby linking neighbors, friends, and families tolocal service providers. The training programhas 10 sessions; sessions 2 through 9 each havetwo parts, one on health and nutrition and oneon community leadership skills. The health andnutrition topics address health promotion,chronic disease, good nutrition, maternal health,child health, communicable disease, mentalhealth and substance abuse, and communityhealth and safety services.Specific trainingprocedures, participant worksheets, andevaluation activities are included for the sessionon health promotion and for all leadership skillssessions. Session1 helps participants exploretheir community's unique situation, thechallenges facing the community, and possiblesolutions.Session 2 discusses the role of thecommunity health advisor in giving advice,providing assistance, and mobilizing others toaction. Sessions 3 and 4 describe the basicdiscussion method, a tool for effectiveconversation with individuals and groups.Sessions 5, 6, and 7 teach participants how tocreate and lead workshops that will help diversecommunity groups identify problems andgenerate solutions. Session 8 addresses skillsfor facilitating broad community participation.Sessions 9 and 10 teach participants how to12Applications and Methodsidentify priorities for action and develop plansto implement those priorities. (HE9700747)018Community Health Advocacy: PrimaryHealth Care Nurse Advocate Teams inUrban Communities.Form: Book chapter.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Swider, S.M.;Bless, C; Murphy, D.; Montgomery, A.; Norr,K.; Irvin, Y.; Gantes, M.; Fisher, M.Source:In:Perspectives in Nursing 1989 1991. National League for Nursing. New York,NY, National League for Nursing, pp. 117 131,1990.Abstract: This chapter describes theCommunity Health Advocacy Project, a team ofcommunity health advocates and nurses thatcollaborates in defining, developing, andimplementing strategies responsive to theconcerns and essential health needs ofcommunity residents. The project has beenimplemented in two low income communitiesin Chicago, Illinois, one with primarily AfricanAmerican residents and the other with primarilyHispanic residents. Women from eachcommunity were trained as health advocates,which prepared them to work with public healthnurses in their communities. During the firstyear of the project, the nurse advocate teamsidentified health problems in their community,talked with community residents about healthconcerns, and assessed the available health andsocial services. As the nurse advocate teamsworked out of the community sites and metonce a week to share their experiences, projectstaff gathered data on health status indicatorsfor each community. The advocates and projectstaff developed an interview guide for a healthsurvey. By the end of the first year, theadvocates had formulated a list of priorityhealth concerns in their community, based ontheir work with residents. The list includedparental stress, substance abuse, adolescentpregnancy, lack of quality medical services,nutrition, mental health, crime, and domesticviolence.In addition to assessment activities inthe project's first year, the nurse advocate teamsperformed some individual advocacy functionsfor people in need of referral for health andsocial problems.In the second year, the teamincreased these services and developed plans toaddress the most pressing community healthneeds identified in the assessment process. Thenurse advocate teams work on activities such asfirst aid classes for children, well child care,parental support groups, hypertension andbreast cancer screening, acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome education, andnutrition education. Evaluation of the projectinvolves documenting activities and collectingqualitative data. (HE9600951)019Community Health Aide Program: HealthCare for Rural Alaska Natives by RuralAlaska Natives.Form:Journal article.Author:Caldera, D.L.Source:Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 166 169, 1991.Abstract: The Community Health AideProgram (CHAP) serves approximately 45,000people living in 171 Native villages located upto1 ,300 miles from the nearest traditionalmedical facility. The health status of ruralAlaskan Natives is related to poverty, rapidsocial change, harsh climate and terrain, and theisolation of the communities where they live.The CHAP program grew out of Congressionalrecognition of the poor overall health of theNatives and the need to increase their healthservices. Momentum for the formal training ofvillage health workers increased between1 94013The Community Health Advisor/Workerand 1960.In 1968, Congress appropriatedfunds for training and salaries for 185community health aides (CHA's) to work in 157villages. The Alaska Native Claims SettlementAct of 1971 created nonprofit corporations toadminister health, education, and social welfareprograms for the Natives; these corporations arenow known as regional provider agencies(RPA's). A manual, Guidelines for PrimaryHealth Care in Rural Alaska 1976, wasdeveloped for statewide use outliningassessment and treatment guidelines for thevillage health worker. CHA's are Native healthworkers selected from and by the communitiesin which they live and work to provide primaryhealth care in the villages.In addition topatient care responsibilities, CHA's manage theclinic and maintain clinic records, supplies, andpharmacy. CHA's are the first point of contactto the Native health care system for most ruralAlaska Natives. Although CHA encounterstend to be acute care oriented, CHA's are alsoinvolved in the provision of prenatal and wellchild care.In the development of anappropriate patient care plan, the CHA relies onthe physicians and midlevel practitionersworking in referral hospitals.Consultingphysicians act as medical supervisors for theCHA's, and the RPA supervisors support theCHA's through their daily challenges.Basictraining consists of three training sessions,lasting 4, 3, and 3 weeks respectively, followedby a 2 week preceptorship. The Federal TortClaims Act provides liability coverage forfederal employees and thus for CHA's. CHA'shave become an indispensable component ofhealth care for Alaska Natives.Indexes ofhealth status among Alaska Natives, such asinfant mortality, life expectancy, number ofpersons hospitalized, and length ofhospitalization have improved since the CHAtraining and employment program began.13 references. (HE9700302)020Community Health Worker Programs:A Leadership Brief on CommunityPreventive Health.Form:Report.Corporate Author: Georgetown UniversityLaw Center, Harrison Institute for Public Lawand Codman Square Health Center, CivicHealth Institute.Source: Washington, DC, GeorgetownUniversity Law Center, Harrison Institute forPublic Law.Dorchester, MA, Codman SquareHealth Center, Civic Health Institute, 24 p.,February 1997.Abstract:This report discusses the design andeffect of community health worker (CHW)programs across the country. The first sectiondiscusses the role of prevention services in thehealth care system and the benefits ofpreventive health approaches. The secondsection describes the role of the CHW andexplains how CHW's can increase access tohealth care for medically underservedpopulations, improve quality of life and healthcare, provide cost savings to health systems andtaxpayers, and promote positive socialoutcomes for both individuals and thecommunity. The third section addresses thevariables around which CHW programs aredesigned:the mission or philosophy, focus,target population, CHW roles and job titles,method (e.g., home visit, health classes,mentoring, or advocacy), and host agency. Thefourth section profiles the key programvariables of four CHW programs:(1)Community Outreach Intervention Projects,(2) the Latino Health Access Project, (3) theCommunity Health Partnership, and (4) theCommunity Health Representative Program,which is provided through the Indian HealthService. The fifth section presents data thatillustrate the effectiveness of several CHW14Applications and Methodsprograms. The sixth section outlines varioustypes of public and private support for CHWprograms, including state policies and funding,recommendations from the NationalCommunity Health Advisor Study, and linkageswith managed care organizations. The seventhsection presents a policy agenda for CHWprograms and recommends steps that states,foundations, and CHW's can take to support theintegration of CHW programs into local healthcare systems. The final section describesresources available to CHW programs,including training guides and curricula,information sources, CHW and programnetworks, and state associations and networks.(HE9700749)021Community Health Workers: TheInterface Between Communities andHealth Care Systems.Form:Journal article.Author: Bryant, J.H.Source: WHO Chronicle.32(4): 144 148,April 1978.Abstract: The community health worker(CHW) approach can reach rural and urbanlow income residents in ways that mobilizetheir abilities and stimulate their interest inimproved health as part of a movement towardsa better future. CHW's can provide a linkbetween the resources of the community andthose of the health care system.Challengesconfronting CHW's include (1) reconciling theconflict of allegiance to the community on onehand and the health system on the other and (2)balancing individually oriented, clinicallydirected health care with group related,epidemiologically oriented functions. Toestablish community oriented programs,CHW's need technical skills that enable them tolead their communities in first, assessingproblems and needs, and then planning,implementing, and evaluating the programs.Selection and training of CHW's influencepatterns of allegiance. Those who select, train,supervise, and pay CHW's will have a stronginfluence on the direction and quality of theiraccountability. An important question iswhether communities should retain control overall aspects of CHW's or whether centralizedagencies of government should extend theirsystem to communities. The choice probablyshould be both, allowing for solutions thatencompass community control and theequitable distribution of services. The mostimportant principle is that a CHW programmust be community based and designed to meetthe needs of the people instead of peopleserving the systems. The article summarizesdiscussions at a symposium on CHW's,organized by the African Medical and ResearchFoundation International at Airlie House,Virginia, in October 1977.1 table.(HE9700086)022Community Health Workers: Who TheyAre and What They Do.Form:Journal article.Authors: Love, M.B.; Gardner, K.; Legion, V.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):510 522, August 1997.Abstract: The authors present the results of amail survey of health care providers in eightnorthern California counties. The survey wasdesigned to gather descriptive data on the roles,background, and working conditions ofcommunity health workers (CHW's). Thepopulation of health care service providers inthe eight counties was stratified by type ofhealth care organization. A preliminaryscreening determined if organizations employedor planned to employ CHW's. Organizations15The Community Health Advisor/Workerthat either currently employed at least oneCHW or intended to hire at least one CHWduring the next 3 years were eligible for thesurvey. A total of 504 CHW's were working in62 agencies; of these, 65 percent wereemployed full time and 35 percent part time.County health departments were the biggestemployers of CHW's (63 percent), followed bycommunity based organizations and clinics (35percent). Fifty five percent of the CHW's werepaid from ongoing hard money funds; 42percent were paid through grants of 3 years orless. Most CHW's were women (66 percent) ofcolor (77 percent) with a high school degree orless (58 percent). The largest concentration ofCHW's work in the area of HIV/AIDS andother sexually transmitted diseases (17 percent),followed by maternal child health/perinatalcare (16 percent), alcohol and drug abuse (11percent), and primary care (10 percent).Skillsthat respondents reported as most important tocommunity health work were multiculturalcompetence, community outreach, andcommunication and conflict resolution skills.Repondents reported that the skills that they hadthe most difficulty finding when hiring CHW'swere group facilitation skills, self management(job readiness), and reporting anddocumentation skills. Barriers to wideremployment of CHW's included (1) budgetconstraints, (2) lack of acceptance by otherprofessionals, (3) difficulty in supervisingemployees with uneven preparation, (4) lack ofacceptance of the CHW field, and (5) lack ofacceptance by clients. 6 tables, 38 references.(HE9701120)023Community Representatives: NewDirections in Education and Outreach.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: San Diego CountyDepartment of Health Services, Division ofPublic Health Education.Source: San Diego, CA, San Diego CountyDepartment of Health Services, Division ofPublic Health Education, Tobacco ControlResource Center, 78 p., 1995.Abstract: This manual offers guidance forprogram coordinators who are interested inusing community representatives in communityhealth education or outreach programs.Community representatives can be lay people orestablished professionals who live or work inthe targeted community. They are usually ofthe same ethnic and cultural background astheir clients and serve as a bridge to availableservices and resources in a community. Thecommunity representative model can beincorporated into existing programs or used asa strategy when developing new programs orprojects. The first section of the manual, Keysfor Program Coordinators, outlines thefunctions of the program coordinator in relationto community representatives.It addressesrecruiting, training, and overseeing communityrepresentatives and includes information on thespecial needs of youths who serve ascommunity representatives. The secondsection, Directions and Ideas to Share withCommunity Representatives, suggests thatprogram coordinators (1) teach the communityrepresentatives how to understand the client,(2) learn to identify community resources andnotify clients of these resources, (3) make apolished presentation to clients, and (4) useincentives. The third section, Strategies forEducation and Outreach, describes how toschedule and conduct presentations and16Applications and Methodsoutreach through local agencies, religiousorganizations, schools, and apartmentcomplexes, and at community health fairs.Appendixes for each section contain samplefliers, forms, attendance rosters, telephonescripts, presentation outlines, and pre andposttest measurements. (HE9700733)024Evaluating Training Programs forParaprofessionals and Nonprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Authors: D' Augelli, A.R.; Danish, S.J.Source:Journal of Counseling Psychology.23(3):247 253, 1976.Abstract: The authors discuss three majorareas relating to training programs forparaprofessional and nonprofessional humanservice workers and detail a potential researchstrategy for evaluation of each area. The firststrategy concerns assessment of the relativeimportance of selection versus training ofparaprofessional helpers.It is assumed thatcareful selection of individuals with certainqualities will result in effective helpers. Adesign is offered to determine the differentialusefulness of selection and training. The designhas four operational stages representing pointsin the candidate's journey through the selectionand training process:selection, training,assessment, and evaluation. The secondstrategy focuses on identifying critical factorsthat produce effective paraprofessional training.It assesses factors that contribute to learning interms of their salience in a given trainingprogram. The third strategy entails anevaluation of both the learning occurringthrough the training and the effect ofsystematically trained paraprofessional helperson their target group clients. A dual approach isrecommended in which several training groupsrepresenting different training approaches arecontrasted with control groups and then theeffect of trained helpers is examined.Multiplemeasures, objective and self report, areincluded in the evaluation of the program. Thestrategies outlined are intended to represent aninitial approach to an empirical base for trainingparaprofessional workers. The authors note thatparaprofessionals and nonprofessionals arelikely to be essential in the delivery of mentalhealth services in the future.3 figures,34 references. (HE9700494)025Family Dynamics for ParaprofessionalWorkers.Form:Journal article.Author: Ogren, E.H.Source: Family Coordinator.20(1):11 16,January 1971.Abstract: A course in family dynamics wasdeveloped to help paraprofessional familyhealth workers in an urban neighborhood healthcenter become an integral part of acomprehensive health care team. The familyhealth workers served as clinic assistants andcase finders, recorded family data, encouragedfamilies to use the services, and educatedfamilies regarding good physical and mentalhealth practices. The workers were generally 21to 50 years old, most were female, and mosthad completed high school. The trainingprogram focused on mechanical andcommunication skills, knowledge necessary fortask fulfillment, and the development ofpositive attitudes. The theory of familyinteraction was one of the mental healthconcepts taught, along with physiological andmedical information. The goals of the courseincluded( 1 ) increasing understanding of someof the social aspects of human behavior, (2)correcting stereotypes, (3) developing a positive17The Community Health Advisor/Workerapproach to problem solving, and (4)understanding the relationship between thecommunity and larger society and how thefamily can be helped to become a healthier unit.Lectures on theoretical material followed anoutline form to facilitate note taking by thetrainees. Numerous vignettes and exampleswere given to initiate class discussion andemphasize the relevance of the material. Amore complete course was developed for twolater training programs lasting 4 months and 6months and involving nearly 50 trainees.Indications through observation are that goalswere met, although no formal assessment wasconducted.10 references. (HE9700735)026Family Health Worker Revisited: A Five Year Follow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Torrey, E.F.; Smith, D.; Wise, H.Source: American Journal of Public Health.63(l):71 74, January 1973.Abstract: The authors assess a group of familyhealth workers 5 years after they were trained atthe Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Center inthe Bronx, New York. The population servedby this health center is approximately halfAfrican American and half Hispanic American.The family health workers were all recruitedfrom this population, had a variety of familyand educational backgrounds, and ranged in agefrom 25 to 53 years (average age was 38 years).They learned aspects of nursing, healtheducation, and social advocacy. Of the 72family health visitors trained, 50 had workedsteadily at the center. One became the DeputyDirector of the center, nine went on for furthertraining, and six resigned. All who werecurrent employed were working as part of aprimary care health team consisting of aninternist, a pediatrician, two nurse practitionersand six family health workers. The daily taskscarried out by the family health workers reflectthe problems of some of the families in thearea. The family health workers encounteredproblems that included (1) self esteem; (2) thedifficulty of changing roles for the family healthworker, supervising nurse, and consultingphysician; (3) lack of upward job mobility; (4)lack of lateral job mobility; (5) paternalism; (6)lack of project evaluation; and (7) questionableconceptual validity for the role of nursing health educator social advocacy. 7 references.(HE9700309)027Helping Beliefs Inventory as a Predictor ofVolunteer Counselor Training Outcome.Form:Journal article.Authors:Kelly, N.J.; McLennan, J.P.;Gotts, G.H.Source:Psychological Reports. 66 (3, Part 1):970, June 1990.Abstract: The Helping Beliefs Inventory is aself report measure of an individual's espousedbeliefs about the helpfulness of variouscounseling responses that can be used to predictsuccess as a volunteer.Relatively higher scoresindicate the belief that it is often helpful todistract clients from their feelings of distress,divert them from their problem situations, andtell them what to do. The inventory is bothinternally consistent and stable; scores arerelated to authoritarianism, low psychological mindedness, and lack of flexibility. A pretestwas administered to 5 1 volunteer counselor trainees with the Personal Emergency Service, alarge, metropolitan, voluntary, telephone crisis counseling agency sponsored by the HealthDepartment of Victoria, Australia. Aftercompleting the inventory, the volunteers (41females and 10 males) began the agency'sstandard 30 hour, small group based telephone18Applications and Methodscounseling skills training program.Instructorswere not informed of trainees' scores. By theend of the training program, 26 applicants (20females and 6 males) either had chosen to quitor had been asked to leave by the instructors.The mean pretraining scores of discontinuingtrainees was significantly higher than those ofthe 25 applicants who completed the training.Two judges evaluated the posttrainingcounseling skill level of those 25 trainees whocompleted the program using the agency'sstructured Trainee Evaluation Form.Pretraining inventory scores were significantlycorrelated with posttraining counseling skillsratings and with posttraining scores. Theresearchers concluded that these findingsconfirm previous indications that the HelpingBeliefs Inventory taps personal characteristicsrelated to success in the training of basiccounseling skills.1 reference. (HE9700337)028How To Guide of CURE/Heart, Body andSoul, Inc.: A People Work in Progress.Form: Manual.Author: Cameron, L.Source:Baltimore, MD, CURE/Heart, Bodyand Soul, Inc., 19 p., September 1996.Abstract: The How to Guide of CURE/Heart,Body and Soul, Inc.: A People Work inProgress presents the organization's model forplanning and implementing community healthpromotion programs. The essentialcharacteristics of this model include(1)community based leadership and ownership ofspecific programs, (2) training and use ofindigenous community health workers, (3)interdisciplinary community practice andtraining opportunities, (4) built in evaluation,and (5) broad community development andlong term maintenance of effective strategies.Section1, Breaking Ground, describesstrategies for successful partnership buildingwith special emphasis on how to get the churchinvolved.Section 2, Pouring the Foundation:Structuring the Organization, suggests how toformalize the organization especially regardingissues such as nonprofit status, fiscalmanagement, and administration.Section 3,Putting Up the Frames, describes the preventionprogram model, including the purpose of theprogram, the services offered, and theneighborhood health worker program.Section4, Tending to Furnishings, explains the six stepsused to develop programs.Section 5, Workingwith Raw Materials, describes goals and avariety of approaches to community healtheducation.Section 6, Making It Last, explainshow to maintain a program. (HE9700465)029Improvement of Community HealthServices Through the Support ofIndigenous Nonprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Author: Murphy, M.A.Source:Journal of the New York State NursesAssociation.3(2):29 33, October 1972.Abstract: Based on experiences with an urbancommunity outreach program, a nurse(1) demonstrates the reasons for the emergenceof the indigenous nonprofessional in a specifichealth care setting, (2) discusses ways in whichthe nonprofessional has been effective, (3)exposes problems inherent to the professional nonprofessional relationship, and (4) examinesmeans by which the relationship conflict can beresolved. The outreach center was a directresult of an urban, low income, high crimecommunity's demands for a health componentthat they could call their own. The communitywas composed of five subgroups that included(1) Irish Catholics living in apartments andhousing projects, (2) blacks living in housing19The Community Health Advisor/Workerprojects, (3) Hispanics living in housingprojects and isolated by language and culturalbarriers, (4) university students living in moredesirable spaces, and (5) people with social andeconomic mobility living in high rise, high rentapartments. Community representatives and anew prepayment group practice health planinitiated a contract program that usedcommunity coordinators to canvass thecommunity for prospective enrollees for thenew prepayment group practice health plan.The coordinators served as the emissariesbetween the health care system and the people.The coordinators interpreted the plan toresidents, assisted enrollees in completing amedical questionnaire, acquainted them withthe appointment system, made arrangements fortransportation, and accompanied some memberson their visits to the doctor or laboratory.Increased membership in the health planexpanded the role expectations andresponsibilities of the coordinators, advocates,interpreters, counselors, and crisis interveners.At the outreach center, coordinators and theircase work supervisor defined the coordinator'srole, which affected the kinds of services andthe personnel at the outreach center.10 references. (HE9700335)030It's a 24 Hour Thing, a Living for Each Other Concept:Identity, Networks, andCommunity in an Urban Village HealthWorker Project.Form:Journal article.Authors:Schulz, A.J.; Israel, B.A.; Becker,A.B.; Hollis, R.M.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4) :465 480, August 1997.Abstract: Understanding the experience andperceptions of community members involved inlay health advisor (LHA) programs is essentialfor health educators who design, implement,and evaluate such programs. The authorsexamine these factors from the perspective of asmall group of LHA's, called village healthworkers, working in a large urban communityin Detroit, Michigan. The Village HealthWorker Project is an intervention based on anecological approach designed to create changeat the individual, organizational, andcommunity levels. Using data from focusgroups, in depth interviews, document review,and participant observations, the authorsexplore (1) village health workers' under standing and experience of their work acrossthese levels and (2) the interface between layhealth work and a sense of self in relation tocommunity. A focus group was structuredaround descriptive and reflective questions. Thevillage health workers described themselves ascommunity oriented people. They said theybelieved it was essential for village healthworkers to like people, to be committed tocommunity work and readily available, and tohave a personal or spiritual foundation thatsupported service and action in the community.The workers described themselves as providingaffective, instrumental, and informationalsupport. They said they brought informationabout many health related topics and resourceswithin the community to community membersthrough their day to day activities and workedfor change in their communities. Many workersspoke of the knowledge they acquired abouthealth concerns and community resources, andthe skills that enabled them to conveyinformation more effectively to friends andneighbors. They said they were activelyencouraged by the opportunities the workprovides, such as the chance for personalchange and growth, participation in collectiveactivities, greater access to resources,employment, and personal satisfaction. Thisstudy has implications for (1) designingprograms that build on LHA expertise and20Applications and Methodsknowledge of their communities, (2) structuringthe relationship of LHA programs tocommunity organizations and institutions, and(3) supporting LHA activities toward change atmultiple levels in their communities.47 references. (HE9701 1 1 8)031Latino Health Advocacy Program:A Collaborative Lay Health AdvisorApproach.Form:Journal article.Authors:Baker, E.A.; Bouldin, N.; Durham,M.; Lowell, M.E.; Gonzalez, M.; Jodaitis, N.;Cruz, L.N.; Torres, I.; Torres, M.; Adams, S.T.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):495 509, August 1997.Abstract: The authors discuss the LatinoHealth Advocacy Program in Winchester,Massachusetts, and describe programdevelopment, the methodology used to monitorand evaluate the pilot project, and some initialresults of program activities. The Latino HealthAdvocacy Program is a collaborative, culturallyappropriate, holistic, and ecological lay healthadvisor pilot project intended to improve accessto and use of health and human services by theLatino community through a culturally sensitivemodel of prevention and empowerment. Theprogram design group initially had 12 members,with a core group of 7 (5 Latinos and 2 non Hispanic whites) who worked throughout thepilot period. The program design groupdecided to increase knowledge and awarenessof community resources and address thebarriers to using health and human services.The group worked with community health andhuman service agencies and also developed aSpanish health resource library containinghealth and human service materials that wereused in working one on one with clients and inconducting community outreach activities (e.g.,mesas informativas de salud, or healthinformation tables). The program groupconducted program activities in oneneighborhood with a large Latino populationand in several health and human serviceagencies accessible to the community.Evaluation focused primarily on formativeevaluation activities. These includedcommunity outreach forms, intake forms, andwritten and audiotaped progress notes. Datasuggest that clients were working with theadvocates to access services and resources inthe community and that Latino health advocateswere able to address underlying causes of theproblems rather than just symptoms.Inaddition, the program staff used the mesasinformativas de salud to provide healthinformation as well as information about healthand human service agencies. Moreover, othercommunity health practitioners could use theinformation in their work. The authors suggestthat lay health advisor models that are culturallyappropriate, holistic, ecological, and based onlocal needs can have a positive effect on acommunity.1 5 references. (HE970 1119)032Lay Home Visiting Programs:Strengths,Tensions and Challenges.Form:Journal article.Authors: Lamer, M.; Halpern, R.Source: Zero to Three:Bulletin of NationalCenter for Clinical Infant Programs.8( 1 ): 1 7,September 1987.Abstract: The authors discuss the strengths ofthe home visiting strategy that uses laycommunity workers and the tensions andimplementation challenges that make it difficultfor these programs to achieve maximumbenefits. Home visiting typically combinescore activities such as information sharing,modeling, demonstration, emotional support,21The Community Health Advisor/Workerjoint problem solving, and service brokerageand assistance in meeting pressing needs.Home visits represent a way to reach out toyoung families by offering sustained contactand placing the helping interaction in a lessthreatening environment than that found in mostagencies. Lay workers can find eligible familiesby using their networks of personal contactsand knowledge of local activity patterns andthey tend to be accepted by families morequickly than professionals might be accepted.Implementation challenges related to using layhome visitors include(1) articulating realisticroles for lay workers, (2) discovering skills andpersonal qualities in home visitors, (3)establishing a training system that builds onstrengths and allows for the introduction ofspecialized knowledge, and (4) providing asupervisor who will nurture and monitor thecontinued development of the lay workers.Tensions confronting lay workers include(1)defining a new social role that is half friend andhalf intervenor, (2) juggling conflictinginterpersonal purposes and styles demanded bythe role, (3) moving back and forth betweentwo cultures, and (4) building on experiencesacquired through home visiting work in order toachieve personal goals in the wider society.21 references. (HE9700495)033Leadership for Primary Health Care.Form:Journal article.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Tyska, C;Gugenheim, A.M.; Misner, S.; Poslusny, S.Source: Nursing and Health Care Perspectiveson Community.16(4):229 233, June 1995.Abstract:In this article the authors describethe Leadership for Primary Health Care project,a collaborative effort of the Colleges of Nursingand Medicine at the University of Illinois atChicago, that involved the development of apartnership between the university and thecommunities in which faculty members andstudents participated. The project was designedto create a leadership academy of primaryhealth care professionals and communityadvocates who understood the principles ofprimary health care and could apply and spreadthe philosophy, concepts, and strategies ofcommunity participation in their practice andeducational and research activities. Academymembers participated in an educationalfellowship for an academic year, with weeklymeetings. The educational component of theproject consisted of five modules: primaryhealth care, leadership development,community development, health care systemorganization, and information resources anddata organization. Leadership fellows focusedon developing eight skills: communityidentification and assessment, communityassets identification, participatory planning,consensus building, community mobilizationand organizing, negotiating, participation inpublic policy formulation, and critical thinking.Project staff said that they learned that theprimary health care approach has the potentialto address community health issues in moreconstructive ways than are typically used inconventional public health approaches.1 figure, 3 tables, 2 references. (HE9600952)22Applications and Methods034Models That Work: Compendium ofInnovative Primary Health Care Programsfor Underserved and VulnerablePopulations, 1996.Form:Directory.Corporate Author: US Department of Healthand Human Services, Health Resources andServices Administration, Bureau of PrimaryCare.Source:Bethesda, MD, US Department ofHealth and Human Services, Health Resourcesand Services Administration, Bureau of PrimaryHealth Care, 223 p., 1996.Abstract: This directory profiles programsselected in 1996 by the Models That WorkCampaign as examples of outstandinggrassroots efforts to improve access to primaryhealth care for underserved persons. Thepurpose of the campaign is to identifyexemplary programs and encourage theirreplication in other communities. Applicants arejudged on five criteria: communityresponsiveness, innovation, partnerships andcollaboration between participatingorganizations, evidence of improved access toprimary health care services and health relatedoutcomes, and program replication orsustainability. Many of the model programs usethe community health advisor strategy. Thiscompendium describes the 5 winning programsand the 10 special honorees selected in 1996.Italso outlines applicant programs in 15 self selected categories:business participation, cityor county participation, dental health,farmworker health, health professions programparticipation, HIV/AIDS, the health of thehomeless, hospital participation, low budgetprograms, managed care, maternal and childhealth, religious organization participation,rural health, state coordination, and substanceabuse prevention and treatment. Eachdescription includes the program name, address,telephone and fax numbers, contact person, andinformation about the services provided,populations served, linkages to othercommunity organizations, and outcomes. Thetwo appendixes contain an order form foradditional information and a request form forpresentations or workshops. (HE9700745)035Models That Work: The 1995Compendium of Innovative PrimaryHealth Care Programs for Underservedand Vulnerable Populations.Form:Directory.Corparte Author: US Department of Healthand Human Services, Health Resources andServices Administration, Bureau of PrimaryHealth Care.Source:Bethesda, MD, US Department ofHealth and Human Services, Public HealthService, Health Resources and ServicesAdministration, Bureau of Primary Health Care,177 p., 1995.Abstract: The purpose of the Models ThatWork campaign was to disseminate informationon successful primary care models and theirstrategies for serving vulnerable andunderserved populations.It is hoped that themodels may serve as guides for developing newpartnerships between communities, academia,and public and private sector organizations.The models can also be used for developingmanaged care arrangements, maximizingresources through partnerships, assuring clinicalquality improvement in health care services,establishing funding methodologies, andintegrating underserved and vulnerablepopulations into mainstream systems of care.More than 30 of the model programs use theCHA strategy. The 1995 directory served as oneof the mechanisms for disseminating this23The Community Health Advisor/Workerinformation. The profiled models representmanaged care organizations, insurers, socialservice agencies, public health agencies, andthe religious community. The profiles include( 1 ) the program name and contact, (2) servicesprovided, (3) populations served, (4) linkages orcollaborations, and (5) a summary of theprogram. (HE9700601)036National Community Health AdvisorStudy: Weaving the FutureForm: Report and Executive Summary.Authors:Rosenthal, E.L.; Wiggins, N.;Brownstein, J.N.; Meister, J.; Rael, R.;Guernsey de Zapien, J.; Ingram, M; Borbon, A;Johnson, S.; Koch, E.Source:University of Arizona, 1998.Abstract: This study examines the role ofcommunity health advisors (CHA's) in theUnited States.Data collection includedqualitative and quantitative findings from sitevisits, interviews, focus groups, discussiongroups, and a national survey of CHA's andCHA supervisors. The study explored fourbroad issues:(1) the development of CHA corerole and job competency definitions andtraining curriculum; (2) evaluation strategies forCHA programs; (3) CHA career and fieldadvancement; and (4) the integration of CHA'swithin the changing health care system,including managed care environments.According to the authors, a common definitionof CHA roles and competencies will betterintegrate CHA's into the health care continuum.To aid CHA programs, the study developed anevaluation framework that includes individual,family, and CHA documentation of changes;CHA program administration andimplementation issues, such as the developmentof a strategic plan; documentation of changes atthe community level; and interprogram andnational changes in the CHA programenvironment. Career advancement strategiesfor CHA's include the development ofopportunities training and curriculum standards,development of program protocols in areas suchas hiring and supervision, and development ofinterprogram and CHA networks and leadershipdevelopment. CHA's must address newproblems created by the changing health caresystem and the growth of managed careorganizations.(HE9800121)037Nonobtrusive Interview Technique forDrug Abuse Program Follow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sloan, J.L.; Lipscomb, W.R.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.ll(4):368 370, Winter 1975.Abstract: The authors describe a study of theeffectiveness of a nonobtrusive interviewtechnique for drug abuse program follow up.Researchers interviewed 65 former clients in anoutpatient drug abuse treatment program. Theinterview was designed to appear to a thirdparty as a casual street corner conversation.The researchers trained paraprofessional streetworkers who were known and trusted in thecommunity as interviewers. Using role playing,the street workers then used a mnemonic deviceto guide the conversation over 46 items of moreor less factual information. The interviewersrecorded the information later from memory ona form. The number of items associated witheach subscale was generally limited to seven tonine unrelated bits of information. Amnemonic device was used to cue recall of the10 subscales:(1) housing, (2) relationship withothers (not spouse), (3) legal status, (4) druguse, (5) educational status, (6) referral source,(7) relationship with spouse and sexualfunctioning, (8) health, (9) income, and (10)24Applications and Methodsplans for the future. Researchers attached Likertratings to items of factual information to obtaina measure of the interviewer's estimate of thesignificance of each fact on the client's totalfunctioning. The Likert rating procedure wasstandardized by having the interviewer ratevideotaped interviews until their ratings agreedwith a key at 80 percent identical responses forthree consecutive interviews. An alphacoefficient reliability estimate of the Likertratings on the 65 former clients was 0.923.Analysis of variance revealed no significantdifference in the mean of total Likert pointsascribed to clients over interviewers. A plot ofthe summed ratings revealed a bimodal patternof ratings that indicates a useful discriminationamong clients in terms of functioning.In theview of the interviewers, a person's plans forthe future, current income, general health, anddrug use pattern were more important to theinterviewer's estimate of the client's generalfunctioning than were other measures. In theauthors' view, the most significant aspect of thestudy involves the utility of the data gatheringtechnique.2 figures, 3 references.(HE9700344)038Nurses' Role in Primary Health Care.Form:Journal article.Authors:Bless, C; Murphy, D.; Vinson, N.Source: Nursing and Health Care Perspectiveson Community.16(2):70 76, March April1995.Abstract: The University of Illinois College ofNursing launched the Primary Health Care inUrban Communities project to address theneeds of two low income urban communities,one mostly African American and the otherlargely Hispanic. Both communities werecharacterized by high crime rates and below average health, social, and economic indicators.The project staff teamed a public health nursewith four or five community residents to form anurse advocate team in each of the twocommunities. The teams worked with theircommunities' health and social serviceagencies, schools, churches, businesses, localgovernment, families, friends, and neighbors todefine and address health problems. Theirservices were available to all community,residents. The primary strategy of the nurse advocate teams was to provide education onissues identified by residents and to enhanceresidents' ability to improve their own healthand that of their neighbors. The public healthnurse used the community health assessmentprocess to help the advocates and othercommunity residents articulate their concernsand then helped them formulate a communityhealth diagnosis. The assessment process wasan early collaborative effort in which theadvocates participated fully, helping to compilea directory of community health and socialservice resources. Nurse advocate teamstestified at community and county levelmeetings on health reform, assistedorganizations that advocated on behalf of thehealth needs of immigrants and the homeless;and served on the development committees ofcommunity groups and organizations. Many ofthe teams' community organizing effortsfocused on issues of violence. The roles of theadvocates evolved over the course of theproject, as did the individual leadership abilitiesand goals of the team. The authors recommendthat the Public Health Nursing Sciencesprogram equip nurses for the expanded rolesrequired in community based public healthsettings. By expanding to include communityparticipation, nursing will promote thealternative models of health care needed toaddress the most difficult public health issues.6 references. (HE9600953)25The Community Health Advisor/Worker039Parents of Children With RheumaticDisease as Peer Counselors.Form:Journal article.Authors: DeNardo, B.A.; Stebulis, J.A.;Tucker, L.B.; Schaller, J.G.Source:Arthritis Care and Research.8(2):120 125, June 1995.Abstract: Between October 1990 andSeptember 1992, seven pediatric rheumatologycenters in New England implemented a parentconsultant program to promote active familyinvolvement in the health care process andprovide peer support, education, and training toparents of children with rheumatic diseases.Parents of children with rheumatic diseasesassessed the efficacy of medical treatments,identified areas of need that had not beenaddressed, performed physical and occupationaltherapy at home, located and coordinated healthcare, and performed other tasks. The programrecruited parents of the children receiving careat the center to work part time in the clinics asparent consultants who are active members ofthe interdisciplinary team responsible forcarrying out specific aspects of patient care.Parent consultant training included bothdidactic sessions on a multicenter level andclinical training within the individual clinic.A Parent Consultant Orientation Manual,developed by project staff, provided writtenpractice guidelines. Annual questionnaires toparent consultants, clinical supervisors, andcenter directors evaluated satisfaction with theprogram. Any member of the health care teamcould refer a family to a parent consultant, whoprovided family education and technicalassistance on specific nonmedical issues such asrecord keeping, health care financing, andeducational issues and rights.Parentsresponding to an anonymous, mail responsequestionnaire designed to evaluate programeffect indicated that their interaction with theparent consultant was very helpful (59 percent)or somewhat helpful (28 percent). The majorityof respondents (98 percent) stated they wouldrecommend that other parents meet with theparent consultant. Barriers to implementing theprogram on an ongoing basis included difficultyin recruiting and retaining parent consultants.3 tables,1 figure, 14 references. (HE9700100)040Physician Assistant Training for NativeAlaskan Community Health Aides:The MEDEX Northwest Experience.Form:Journal article.Authors: Hummel, J.; Cortte, R.; Ballweg, R.;Larson, E.Source: Alaska Medicine. 36(4): 183 1 88,October December 1994.Abstract:Researchers assessed the outcome oftraining Native Alaskan health workers asphysician assistants, specifically whether NativeAlaskan graduates were working in settings thatserve Alaska Natives. From 1980 through1990, 16 Native Alaskan Community HealthAides and 21 non Native Alaskan aides beganphysician assistant training at MEDEXNorthwest at the University of Washington.The backgrounds, educational experiences, anddeployment locations of Native and non NativeAlaskans accepted for training were comparedusing MEDEX Northwest student records. The1991 graduate survey was used to comparedifferences in practice setting, specialty, andsalary between Native and non Nativegraduates working in Alaska in 1991.Resultsindicated that all of the non Natives and 81percent of the Natives completed the program.Of those completing the program, 100 percentof the Natives returned to Alaska, where 91percent worked as primary care physicianassistants in clinics serving predominantly26Applications and MethodsNative Alaskan communities. By comparison,78 percent of the non Native graduates returnedto Alaska to work as physician assistants, 60percent of them in primary care and 15 percentin predominantly Native Alaskan communities.There were no significant differences in salaryor benefits between Native and non Nativegraduates.Researchers conclude that physicianassistant training for entry level health workersis a viable strategy for increasing the number ofunderrepresented minorities in the healthprofessions. The Native Alaskan graduates ofMEDEX Northwest are returning tocommunities where they serve people both ashealth care providers and as professional rolemodels.3 figures, 4 tables, 16 references.(HE9700070)041Procedure for the Selection ofNonprofessional Workers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Goldstein, A.D.; Camp, B.W.Source: HSMHA Health Reports. 86(6):533 536, June 1971.Abstract: Where the needs are highest formore economical health, education, and welfareservices, many agencies are trying to useunskilled community members to perform moreeconomically some of the tasks that arenormally the responsibility of professionals.Itis not easy to select individuals for the role ofcommunity worker; during the initial years ofhiring and training unskilled workers, manyfrustrations have resulted from the overridinggoal of providing jobs for needy people withtoo little regard for the needs and abilities ofthose selected.Consequently, the rate at whichmany nonprofessional employees resign isnearly 100 percent in many localities. To helpagencies avoid some of these difficulties,researchers developed a selection procedure toincrease the probability ofjob success in termsof performance and work longevity. Theprocedure permits evaluation of personal factorsthat had been previously associated with failureon the job, such as insufficient knowledge aboutthe work requirements, lack of interest ormotivation for working with the povertypopulation, lack of a basic knowledge ofEnglish, or disruptive home situations. Theprocedure included (1) an orientation to thework, (2) a structured group interview toevaluate motivation and capability for workingwith a poverty level population, (3) group teststo establish whether the applicants had theprerequisite skills needed for communicationand training, and (4) a structured individualinterview to evaluate personal factors related towork stability.In the initial application of thisselection procedure, 5 of 15 applicants, allmembers of minority groups who lived in theneighborhood in which they would serve, wereaccepted. All selected workers using theprocedure have received excellent or goodevaluation ratings from supervisors.1 figure,4 references. (HE9700326)042Recruitment and Training Issues FromSelected Lay Health Advisor ProgramsAmong African Americans: A 20 YearPerspective.Form:Journal article.Authors: Jackson, E.J.; Parks, C.P.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):41 8 431, August 1997.Abstract: The use of lay health advisors(LHA's) to address the health disparity amongAfrican Americans is well documented andconsidered a culturally appropriate model ofcommunity health promotion. Importantcomponents of the LHA model includeidentification, recruitment, and training of27The Community Health Advisor/WorkerLHA's. The Community Health EducationProgram at the Duke University Medical Centerin North Carolina provided one of the originalframeworks for LHA recruitment and training,and its model serves as a useful guide forexploring the evolution of recruitment andtraining procedures in LHA programs forAfrican Americans.In selecting LHA's, orindigenous natural helpers, the model's maincriterion included the identification of personswho embody the combination of social,cultural, ethnic, environmental, andcommunication values, norms, and beliefs ofthe target population. The authors describeeight resources for LHA identification: (1) areaorganizations, (2) people in key organizations,(3) services with outreach workers in the area,(4) program coordinators, (5) previously trainedlay health advisors, (6) volunteers, (7) multiplelisting of a name in a community survey, and(8) network search.In conducting a literaturereview on recruitment methods used in AfricanAmerican LHA programs during 1970 1995,the authors found 48 different methods.Successful recruitment methods include (1)community wide surveys, (2) ethnicorganization, recommendations, (3) communityor institutional leader participation, (4)inclusion of various community organizingtechniques, (5) use of a well established andwell connected African American community based organization, and (6) hiring of a sociallyactive African American community member.Recommendations for health educators seekingto recruit and train African Americans for LHAprograms include (1) acknowledging the skillsof the LHA's and not employing recruitmentand training techniques that disrupt theirexisting roles in the community; (2)establishing protocols from a perspective ofenhancing, expanding, and supporting thehelping skills of LHA's; and (3) relying on thecollective wisdom of the community to identify,recruit, select, and train LHA's.2 tables, 47references. (HE9701116)043Role and Training of Health EducationAides.Form:Journal article.Authors:Knittel, R.E.; Child, R.C.;Hobgood, J.Source: American Journal of Public Health.61(8):1571 1580, August 1971.Abstract: The role of nonprofessionals hasincreased considerably with the advent ofgovernment financed programs to aiddisadvantaged persons and those with lowincomes. Nonprofessionals have worked in thepublic health field for years, and the use of suchpersonnel in overseas programs is welldocumented.In a training project for healtheducation aides (HEA) in Chicago, Illinois, 20persons with an educational level equivalent tohigh school were selected on the basis of theirinterest in the problems of ghetto residents.Many of the participants were former residentsof slum areas who were motivated to helpchange the conditions there. The idea that themain task of the HEA's was to motivate toresidents and change their attitudes aboutenvironmental sanitation practices. The projectprovided the aides (1) substantive training in thetechnical aspects of rodent and vermin control,(2) understanding of the motivational factorsaffecting the residents of the slum areas, (3)skills and understanding in the change ofattitudes of slum residents towards theirenvironment, and (4) skill in face to facecontact with slum residents on a personal basis.The authors evaluated the program 16 monthsafter its inception and found that the aidesworked effectively. The HEA's agreed that shorttraining periods of about 2 weeks, followed by28Applications and Methodsfield experiences, were the best form oftraining.23 references. (HE9700307)044Role of the Community Health Aide inRural Alaska.Form:Journal article.Authors:Caldera, D.; Daniels, S.;Ashenfelter, W.Source:Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 157 160, 1991.Abstract: The Community Health AideProgram is a system of health care that hasevolved over the last 40 years to meet theprimary health care needs of Alaska Nativesliving in small remote communities up to1 ,300miles from the nearest professional health carefacility. The program is administered by Nativenonprofit corporations that contract with thefederal government to provide health and socialservices to the communities in their region.Community health aides (CHA's) are the soleresident health care providers in thecommunities they serve. They are able toprovide complete basic primary health care for85 to 90 percent of the patients seeking servicesat the clinic. CHA duties and responsibilitiesinclude acute and emergency care, healthsurveillance and preventive services, andadministrative and community health services.The areas in which CHA's perform best areacute care for common ailments and emergencycare; they are less successful or minimallyinvolved in the provision of preventive care,health surveillance, health education, clinicadministration, and outreach programs.Because 96 percent of the CHA's are women,and the Alaska Native culture is male and elder dominated, with traditional roles for womencentered in the home, CHA's face manychallenges to their tasks of providing primaryhealth care to their communities' residents.CHA supervisors, consulting physicians,conferences, and teleconferencing opportunitiesprovide support to the CHA. Programimprovements, including implementing newwork schedules designed to decrease CHAstress and burnout, raising salaries, andimproving training, were made possible througha 200 percent increase in funding between 1989and 1991.5 references. (HE9700301)045Role of Volunteers: What Educators Needto Know.Form:Newsletter article.Author:Chai, K.T.Source: Nursing Staff Development Insider.4(3): 1, 8, May June 1995.Abstract: The author discusses what volunteereducators should know about their volunteers.The1 995 human resource standards developedby the Joint Commission on Accreditation ofHealthcare Organizations require that each staffmember's capability to perform his or herspecific job responsibilities be assessed throughthe completion of an orientation process. Therole of the volunteer is as varied as the types oforganizations. Some perform direct patient careincluding feeding and transporting patients.Inother organizations, volunteers provideinformation and clerical support and transportspecimens. When organizations define the roleof volunteers, they should include the elementsof job training and assessment required to meetexpectations of the position. (HE9700463)29The Community Health Advisor/Worker046Starting Point: Empowering Communitiesto Improve Health: A Manual for TrainingHealth Promoters in CongregationalCoalitions.Form: Manual.Corporate Author:Carter Center, InterfaithHealth Program.Source:Atlanta, GA, Carter Center, InterfaithHealth Program, 52 p., 1997.Abstract: This manual was designed to helpcongregations implement efforts to teach layvolunteers to become health promoters.In thisrole, trained volunteers identify the health needsof their individual congregations and work tofind appropriate resources to meet them. Themanual is divided into five sections:(1) TheAtlanta Model for Lay Health Ministrydescribes the development of the AtlantaInterfaith Health Program, a congregation based health promotion project using healthworkers and volunteers; (2) TrainingCongregational Health Promoters (CHP's)describes the participatory learning approachand the role of the trainer or facilitator, andoutlines the CHP training sessions used in theAtlanta coalitions; (3) Development of the CHPTraining Program describes the coordination ofthe training program, the selection of a traineror facilitator, the recruitment of lay volunteersfor training as CHP's, the location of training,the development of a training budget, and theplanning of a commissioning service; (4) Afterthe Training: Follow Through discusses thedevelopment of a support system for CHP's andthe training of additional CHP's; and (5)Evaluation describes the continuing evaluationof the Atlanta program and the CHP TrainingProgram. Appendixes include a list ofresources for training, a covenant ofcongregational participation, ideas for meetingintroductions, learning activities, organizationand listening activities, health related activities,and evaluation tools. (HE9700736)047Three Perspectives on Community HealthAides: Surveys of Health Aides,Consumers and Providers in WesternAlaska.Form:Journal article.Authors: Quick, R.; Bashshur, R.Source: Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 161 165, 1991.Abstract: The Yukon Kuskokwim HealthCorporation conducted surveys of health aides,consumers and providers of health services; onesurvey objective was to assess the performanceof community health aides (CHA's). All non CHA providers received a providerquestionnaire; their response rate was 87.8percent. All CHA's were mailed a CHAquestionnaire, with telephone follow up; theirresponse rate was 96.7 percent. The consumersurvey used a two stage probability sample.Trained interviewers surveyed households,achieving a completion rate of 74.7 percent(473 of 633 households). The survey resultsshowed that the majority of non CHA providerswere not Alaskan Natives and were marriedfemales over age 34 years, most householdswere headed by Eskimo males over age 39years, and the majority of CHA's were marriedfemales over age 24 years, with annual familyincomes of less than $10,000 and with childcare responsibilities. Most non CHA providersrated the services provided by the CHA's asexcellent or good (74 percent). According toconsumers, the quality of care provided byCHA's compared favorably to the quality ofcare of other providers. As income andeducation levels increased among theconsumers, use of CHA's as a source of generalhealth information decreased. The majority of30Applications and MethodsCHA's said their job was stressful. The moststressful aspects they cited were inadequate pay,dealing with emergencies, and patientsdemanding treatment. The authors concludedthat because high stress and low pay havecontributed to high CHA turnover, increasingpay and reducing stress would appear to bepotential solutions to the CHA turnoverproblem. Improving retention of CHA's wouldimprove village health care. 4 tables,13 references. (HE9700098)048Use of Aides in Preventing an Outbreak ofDiphtheria in a Housing Project.Form:Journal article.Author: Branch, G.B.Source: HSMHA Health Reports.86(1):92 96, January 1971.Abstract: A case of diphtheria gravis reportedin a 6 year old boy living in a Los Angeleshousing project in November 1964 aroused fearof an epidemic of the unusually virulentdisease, which is associated with high mortalityrates. As soon as the empirical diagnosis ofdiphtheria was made, the district health officermet with the manager of the housing project,the district health educator, and the director ofthe community center. The housing project had3,100 residents living in close proximity; 1,200of them were children under age 6 years; and 10families shared a yard and play area.It wasdecided that an all out effort would be made toimmunize at least 80 percent of the children inthe housing project who were under age 6 years(all the older children were offered diphtheria tetanus toxoid immunizations at school). Healthdepartment representatives sponsored threeclinics in the area at1 month intervals,furnished all immunization materials, andtaught neighborhood aides about thecommunicability of diphtheria and its control.Neighborhood aides visited each family thathad been exposed to the disease and explainedthe nature of diphtheria, and told them that aphysician and nurse would come to their hometo take specimens and give injections. A publichealth nurse obtained nose and throatspecimens from all exposed people; 50 personshad positive cultures. Two aides, all membersof the community center that assigned them tothe task of helping to prevent the spread ofdiphtheria, worked together in 10 units with thehousing project. The district health educatorand the neighborhood aides met at the housingproject to plan the immunization clinics andwere involved in all areas of the program. Theaides (1) suggested clinic sites and times ofservice based on their knowledge of communitypreferences; (2) designed forms and flyers; (3)selected health education materials; (4) madedoor to door contacts with project residents; (5)recruited one person in each block (blockcaptains) to remind parents the day before theclinic was scheduled; (6) taught the blockcaptains about diphtheria and interviewing; and(7) compiled data on who had received first,second, and third injections or booster shots andwho needed further shots. At the end of theseries of three clinics, 963 children under age 6years (80.3 percent) and 119 other persons hadreceived the 3 immunizations that resulted inadequate protection.2 tables, 4 references.(HE9700343)31The Community Health Advisor/Worker049VISTA Means Vision: Three WinningStrategies for Training Diverse OutreachWorkers.Form: Manual.Authors: Morrow, G.; Andersen, R.; Tripp, M.Source:Austin, TX, Texas Department ofHealth, 24 p., n.d.Abstract: VISTA Means Vision: ThreeWinning Strategies for Training DiverseOutreach Workers is a manual published by theTexas Department of Health. Functioning as layhealth educators, 300 Volunteers in Service toAmerica (VISTAs) in the Texas VISTA HealthCorps currently provide effective outreach incommunities across the state. During the first 2years of the corps, three successful trainingstrategies have emerged. The first strategyinvolves collaboration. Three programs of theTexas Department of Health Immunizations, theSpecial Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,and Children (WIC), and the Early and PeriodicScreening, Diagnosis, and Treatment Program(EPSDT) forged a partnership to create andsustain the Texas VISTA Health Corps. Thetraining process encourages Texas VISTAHealth Corps workers to replicate thiscollaboration in their own activities in order toachieve a unified approach to outreach forpreventive health care services. The secondstrategy involves diversity. VISTAs in Texasare drawn from different backgrounds and havea variety of abilities, perspectives, languages,and levels of literacy. The materials are easy toread, simple to use, and incorporate principlesof experiential and adult learning. The thirdstrategy is empowerment. During orientation,Texas VISTAs are guided through exercises thatencourage them to accentuate their strengths,contribute to a team, and develop synergy. Thismanual highlights training techniques,materials, and manuals that have beendeveloped for, and evaluated by, members ofthe Texas VISTA Health Corps.It includes ananalysis of a training tool designed to empowerTexas VISTAs to make a contribution toimproving access to preventive health servicesfor women and children and to realizeimportant personal gains through the process.(HE9700468)050Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module I:Introduction to Health and Wellness.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 82, 1997.Abstract: This guide is the first in a series ofsix modules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The sixmodules are Introduction to Health andWellness, Cancer, Disease and Stroke, Diabetes,Healthy Lifestyles, and Aging. The training isbased on the shared learning experience model,requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.Module I consists of four units, which can betaught in two and a half days. Unit 1,Introduction to the Training, gives the trainer anopportunity to introduce individual program32Applications and Methodsgoals and objectives, and gives the trainees anopportunity to try their new roles as healthadvisors.Unit 2, Understanding Wellness,offers relaxation and stress reducing techniquesto the advisors.In Unit 3, CommunicationSkills for Health Advisors, trainees learn thebasics of communication skills needed to gainthe trust and acceptance of those they help.Unit 4, Playing an Active Role in Your HealthCare focuses on negotiating the health caresystem, including self advocacy.(HE9800122)051Women's Wellness Sourcebook. Module V:Health Lifestyles.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 141, 1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module V:Health Lifestyles is the fifth in aseries of six modules designed for trainers ofhealth advisors. The adaptable curriculum ineach module can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This fifth module was written to teach healthadvisors how to make lasting changes in theircommunity's health habits and behaviors.Specific information is provided in units aboutsmoking, nutrition, exercise, and AIDS andother sexually transmitted diseases (STD's).Unit1 covers the role of the health advisor insupporting healthy lifestyles.Unit 2, SmokingCessation, covers topics of facts on smoking,effects of secondhand smoke, positive effects ofsmoking cessation, preparing your clients toquit, and relapse prevention. Unit 3, Nutrition,includes information on the importance of abalanced diet, what constitutes a balanced diet,nutrients, achieving and maintaining a healthyweight, eating disorders, and assisting clients inplanning healthier diets.Unit 4, Exercise,discusses the importance of exercise, aerobicexercise, weight training and flexibilitytraining, making time for exercise, and walking.Unit 5, STD's, (HIV), and AIDS, covers sexualattitudes, understanding and explaining STD'sand HIV, preventing transmission, and apractice session. A list of recommendedresources is included. (HE9800126)33The Community Health Advisor/WorkerVolunteers as Community Health Advisors052Coordinating a Volunteer Program.Form: Journal article.Author:Pettinelli, V.D.Source: Mental Hygiene. 55(4):516 518,October 1971.Abstract: The author presents the view that thesuccess of any volunteer program is directlydependent on the skill and awareness of thevolunteer coordinator. Before a programbegins, the coordinator must first assess theclimate in which the staff will function. Thethree basic elements to an effective volunteerprogram are:(1) selection, (2) training andsupervision, and (3) communication. Theselection of volunteers is the first vital step inestablishing a sound volunteer work force. Thecoordinator must (1) be cognizant of the type ofsetting in which the volunteers will be placed,(2) assess the needs of the setting, and (3) seekto meet those needs by effectively use the skillsof the volunteers. Volunteer training shouldbegin immediately after the selection process iscompleted. The training should center onproviding (1) a knowledge base that thevolunteer may use to do the job moreeffectively and (2) an atmosphere for personalgrowth and development. The coordinatorshould establish good communication linkswith the volunteers. The volunteer coordinatormust be sensitive enough to meet the needs ofthe agency as well as to meet the needs of thepeople who are giving freely of their time andabilities. (HE9700336)053Developing a Hospital's VolunteerProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sues, A.M.; Wilson, P.A.Source: Health and Social Work. 12(l):13 20,Winter 1987.Abstract: Using experiences gained from thesocial service department of a 250 bed urbanhospital that successfully initiated a volunteerprogram, two social workers explore thebenefits of volunteer services to hospital socialservices departments and outline a systematicapproach to developing volunteer programs thatavoids common pitfalls and is both effectiveand cost conscious.Direct service to patients isperhaps the most common and valued volunteeractivity. Volunteers also can play significantroles in administrative and clerical functions,public relations, fund raising, and policy andplanning functions. Developing a volunteerprogram involves conducting( 1 ) a detailedsurvey of potential sources of communityvolunteers, (2) an administrative audit to assessthe need for volunteer services, (3) a cost benefit analysis of the financial consequencesof initiating such a program, and (4) a pilotprogram to evaluate design effectiveness.Difficulties that can undermine a volunteerprogram include (1) finding adequatevolunteers, (2) defining the hospital auxiliary'srelationship to the volunteer program, (3)contending with staff members' pastexperiences with and attitudes towardvolunteers, and (4) giving inadequate attentionto the costs of initiating and maintaining aviable volunteer program.3 tables,22 references. (HE9700069)35The Community Health Advisor/Worker054Effective Hospice Volunteers:Demographic and PersonalityCharacteristics.Form:Journal article.Authors:Caldwell, J.; Scott, J.P.Source: American Journal of Hospice andPalliative Care.ll(2):40 45, March April1994.Abstract: The authors examined thedemographic and personality characteristics ofhighly effective hospice volunteers.Researchers asked directors and coordinators at50 hospice programs in Texas to identify theirmost dependable and effective volunteers.Volunteers were asked to complete a surveyquestionnaire. A total of 244 questionnaireswere distributed and 156 (64 percent) werecompleted. The instruments assesseddemographic information, degree of religiousactivity, community volunteer involvement,previous death experiences, and Myers BriggsType Indicator. Researchers used anonparametric binomial goodness of fit test tocompare volunteers' personality types tonormative distributions. The mean age of theparticipants was 55.6 years, with ages rangingfrom 20 to 86 years. The sample waspredominantly female (87 percent). The ethnicdistribution of the sample was 95.3 percentwhite, 2.7 percent black, 1.3 percent Hispanic,and 0.7 percent other. Almost three fourths ofthe participants were married, 18.3 percentwere widowed, 5.9 percent were divorced, and3.3 percent were single. They had a meaneducational level of 14.6 years, with aneducational range of 8 to 20 years. Nearly halfof the participants were retired, 22.2 percentwere employed in the home, 19.0 percent wereemployed full time, and 11.1 percent wereemployed part time.Overall, volunteers werepredominantly white, female, and had aboveaverage incomes.Results from the binomialgoodness of fit test indicated that theproportion of extroverted and sensing typesaccording to the Myers Briggs Type Indicatorwas significantly higher in the present studythan might be expected in the generalpopulation. The knowledge derived from thisstudy may help coordinators to more effectivelyreach, train, and retain volunteers who canmake a significant difference in hospice care.3 tables, 20 references. (HE9700317)055Factors in Achieving a Stable Group ofVolunteers in a Mental Health Agency.Form:Journal article.Authors:Furedy, R.L.; Kirschner, C.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(3): 167 168, March 1975.Abstract: The authors discuss the factors thatconsistently influence the length of time avolunteer stays with an agency. Four factors areparticularly important:(1) rites of passage,(2) life experience and task assignment,(3) supervision, and (4) group cohesiveness.Regarding rites of passage, the screening,orientation, and ceremony surrounding anindividual's entrance into the volunteer groupare vital.Volunteers should feel that theirabilities are appreciated. During orientation,the volunteer sees what the job is really like,and decides whether or not to continue to workwith and be identified with the agency. On theissue of life experience and task assignment,volunteers' own life experiences are thefoundation for their beginning efforts to helpclients. These experiences may or may not havepositively prepared the individuals for thespecific volunteer requirements. Volunteersarrive with a variety of ambitions, interests, andpotential abilities, all of which must be closelymatched to the specific task to be performed in36Volunteers as Community Health Advisorsorder for the volunteers to be satisfied andsuccessful.Supervision is one of the best andmost important ways for the agency to give tothe giver. A supervisor has a great deal to teachand must help the volunteer understand theclient's behavior, feelings, and perceptions.Finally, a volunteer's identification with, andsense of belonging to, the volunteer group isnecessary for forming a cohesive bond with theagency. The wish for social contact is often amajor but unspoken motivation forvolunteering. Other important actions tomaintain volunteers include electing volunteersto the agency's board of directors and ensuringthat volunteers are full partners in every aspectof the agency's operations. (HE9700327)consistent monitoring of personal progress;(3) avoiding resistance to changing behavior;and (4) approaching behavior changesystematically.Strategies for self preservationemphasize (1) physical self care (i.e., fitness,relaxation, nutrition, and habit control); (2)psychological/emotional self care strategies(i.e., personal support system, support group,recreation and play strategies, planning, andgoal and limit setting); (3) strategies forreaching out; and (4) spiritual self carestrategies. As hospice caregivers recognize theinterrelatedness of caring for others and oneself,the services provided patients and families willbe enriched.3 figures, 17 references.(HE9700076)056Hospice Caregiving:Strategies to AvoidBurnout and Maintain Self Preservation.057Patient Care Training Program forVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Author:Patrick, P.Source: Hospice Journal. 3(2 3):223 253,Summer Fall 1987.Form:Journal article.Authors: Walker, P.W.; Ross, M.J.Source:Journal of Nursing Staff Development.5(4): 180 182, July August 1989.Abstract: A psychologist describes methodsfor hospice caregivers to assess their level ofstress and burnout, identifies aspects ofpersonal growth and change influencing self care, and outlines key self care strategies thatsupport self preservation. The healthprofessional offers two methods for gaining amore individualized understanding of currentmanifestations of burnout and negative stress:(1) the Social/Interpersonal, Emotional,Physical, Spiritual Assessment Inventory and(2) the Support System Grid. Promoting self preservation requires (1) committing to thedevelopment of a self care plan; (2) adopting aproactive preventive approach that includesongoing self assessment activities,implementation of self care strategies beforesigns or symptoms of burnout appear, andAbstract: Two nurses describe the planningand implementation of a training program forlay community volunteers to assist with basichealth care at the Eilson Air Force Base nearFairbanks, Alaska.In planning the program,developers (1) assessed precisely what avolunteer would need to know and do in each ofthe clinical areas; (2) informally interviewed thesupervisors of each patient care area for theirideas concerning what specific knowledge andskills volunteers should have; (3) assessed thepossible skills, experience, and level ofeducation of the average potential volunteer;and (4) consulted a number of sources for asimple step by step approach to adult educationprograms. The week long orientation courseused guest speakers, movies, slides, overheadtransparencies, videos, role playing, and actual37The Community Health Advisor/Workerhands on experience to supplement lecture.Process evaluation was an important tool in thedaily schedule. As necessary, they changedpresentations to meet the levels ofunderstanding. The course concluded with 4hours of supervised clinical time in the patientcare area of the volunteer's choice. At the endof the course, the volunteers completed anevaluation questionnaire. The program wasmodified to incorporate the volunteers'suggestions. After the volunteers had workedfor 5 weeks, their supervisors completed anevaluation of the competency of these trainedvolunteers and rated them highly in both skillsand knowledge. The authors conclude thatqualified and adequately trained volunteerscould offer great potential service in patientcare areas that are understaffed with nursingpersonnel.1 figure, 4 references.(HE9700051)058Planning: The Key to a SuccessfulVolunteer Program.Form:Journal article.Author: Trocchio, J.Source:Journal: American Health CareAssociation.l(l):72 73, July 1975.Abstract: Volunteer programs often collapsebecause of poor planning. Adequate planningcan produce a vital, creative volunteerprogram that benefits nursing home residents,the facility administration and staff, and thecommunity in which the facility is located.Four steps must be considered in programplanning:(1) assessment of the need forvolunteers, (2) identification of communityresources, (3) development of programobjectives, and (4) definition of policies. Stepone requires an identification of needs that areappropriate for volunteers to meet.Residentsand staff should be involved in this earlyplanning stage.Step 2 is exploration of thevolunteer market. Every facility will havedifferent resources available. The staff may beinterested in helping with parties and activitiesoutside their working hours. Nursing homeresidents themselves are an excellent volunteerresource, and their visitors also may be pleasedto have interesting projects in which to beinvolved along with their regular visits.Step 3is the definition of program objectives, whichshould include (1) the goals of the program, (2)the number of volunteers to be recruited, (3) theexpected benefits to the operation of the facility,and (4) desired projects and activities.Step 4involves policy making. Volunteers shouldknow what to expect and what is expected ofthem.Policies should include (1) therecruitment procedure, (2) an outline of aninitial interview with prospective volunteers, (3)job descriptions for volunteers, (4) an outline ofan orientation program, (5) means to evaluatethe program and the individual volunteers, and(6) methods by which the facility can thank thevolunteers and recognize volunteerachievement. All nursing home personnelshould be involved in the formation ofvolunteer policies.If the planning is acollaborative effort among the facility'sadministration, staff, residents, and community,a successful volunteer program can beestablished, and a dynamic relationship willdevelop within the home. 2 references.(HE9700338)38Volunteers as Community Health Advisors059Rural Emergency Medical Volunteers andTheir Communities: A DemographicComparison.Form:Journal article.Author: Thompson, A.M.Source:Journal of Community Health.18(6):379 392, December 1993.Abstract:Researchers compared the personal,household, and professional characteristics ofvolunteer emergency medical service (EMS)providers in Ulster County, New York, withthose of the general population of this ruralupstate county, using data from the 1990 U.S.Census of Population and Housing. Thepurpose was (1) to evaluate the ability of EMSsquads to recruit new and retain currentmembers from their communities and (2) toascertain the level of commitment of EMSvolunteers to their squads and communities.Researchers gathered EMS volunteer attributesby a parallel survey that they administered tomembers of all nine volunteer EMS squads inthe county. Researchers supplemented thequestionnaire with in depth interviews withseveral of the active volunteer EMS providers,as well as with direct observation of the fullrange of activities in which these EMS squadsengage.Statistically significant deviationsbetween the two sample populations included(1) age distribution, (2) maximum educationalattainment, (3) size of household, (4) years inresidence, (5) type of employer, (6) employingindustry, (7) occupation, (8) household income,and (9) commuting distance from work.Differences for (1) race, (2) sex, (3) maritalstatus, (4) household site, (5) home ownership,(6) housing costs, and (7) in countyemployment were not statistically significant.The author believes that the research provided areasonably detailed and useful portrait of EMSvolunteers by comparing several of theirsocioeconomic attributes with those of theirfellow citizens. The data provided substantialevidence of the volunteers' loyalty andcommitment to the EMS, indicated by astatistically significant positive correlationbetween the volunteers' age and length ofservice. Of polled EMS volunteers, 45 percentclaimed they never considered resigning and anadditional 27 percent considered resigning onlyrarely. The dominant causes cited forconsidering resigning were personal timeconstraints and internal dissatisfaction with theEMS squad itself. Fifty four percent of EMSvolunteers had relatives who also volunteer inthis capacity and 30 percent state that they weremarried to, or otherwise involved with, anotherEMS volunteer. 4 tables, 14 references.(HE9700056)060Training Imperatives for VolunteersCaring for High Risk, VulnerablePopulations.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hutchison, R.R.; Quartaro, E.G.Source:Journal of Community HealthNursing.10(2): 87 96, 1993."Abstract: Educators associated with theHomeless Shelter Program, a network ofchurches and synagogues in a northeastsuburban area, identify the caring needs of bothhigh risk, vulnerable populations and of thevolunteers serving them and present a trainingprogram as a model applicable to the training ofthose volunteers. The program, which providestwo meals daily, sleeping accommodations, andevening activity programs, is dependent onvolunteer services. The needs of high risk,vulnerable populations include ( 1 ) survivalrequirements such as food, clothing, andshelter; (2) planning for adequate andappropriate health care; (3) understanding and39The Community Health Advisor/Workersupportive interactions with professional andvolunteer personnel; and (4) strengthenedfamily ties, where they exist. Following athree step assessment of volunteer needs and anextensive literature review, the educatorsdeveloped a three session curriculum fortraining volunteers based on theinterdisciplinary foundation of nursing andsocial work substantive areas. Programoutcomes for volunteers included an enhancedability to relate to persons in high risk,vulnerable populations with less anxiety,greater ease, and less distancing from theperson served. The researchers concluded thatusing a corp of well trained volunteers freesprofessional staff to perform high level servicesin a program. 20 references. (HE9700052)061Training of Telephone Crisis InterventionVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors: Dixon, M.C.; Burns, J.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.3 (2): 145 150, June 1975.Abstract: The authors review seven articlesthat address selection and training of telephonecrisis intervention volunteers. Brockopp andYasser discuss volunteer training for telephonetherapy, using the Erie County SuicidePrevention Center as a model. They emphasizeselection, phased training, supervision andfeedback on individual performance, andfollow up to the training program. Reismandescribes the essential components of a trainingprogram:role clarification, phased training thatprogresses into all areas a volunteer mayencounter, and unified criteria used in theselection of the volunteers to strengthenindividual weaknesses. He stresses thatunrealistic expectations should not be createdfor volunteer trainees. Lamb's paper on errorsand fallacies found in telephone therapy pointsout that telephone therapists must not believethey are perfect; nor should they enter into theirwork with an inflexible approach to problemsolving. The goal of training should be theprevention of errors.Heilig, Farberow, Litman,and Shneidman discuss the selection andtraining of nonprofessionals for telephonetherapy in suicide prevention. They stress threeprimary training areas:adequate coverage oftheories relevant to telephone therapy andsuicide prevention, practice in specific methodsfor handling calls, and example of actual callsand case histories. An apprenticeship aftertraining should address and try to resolvespecific weaknesses for each volunteer.Farberow, in discussing training at the LosAngeles Suicide Prevention Center, emphasizesthe importance of removing existing feelingsabout the social stigma of emotional and mentalhealth problems from the volunteers duringtraining. Fowler and McGee present a scale toassess the effectiveness of volunteer telephoneworkers. Based on their review, the authors ofthe articles conclude that there is nosystematically developed rationale for either theselection or the training of crisis call volunteers.The authors suggest that training fornonprofessional or lay volunteers be based onthe concepts of crisis intervention and on sociallearning principles.15 references.(HE9700334)062Training Volunteers as AlcoholismTreatment Counselors.Form:Journal article.Author: Manohar, V.Source:Quarterly Journal of Studies onAlcohol.34(3):869 877, September 1973.Abstract: This article describes a trainingprogram developed by the Harvard Medical40Volunteers as Community Health AdvisorsSchool to maximize the services delivered bythe Alcoholism Division at the Boston CityHospital. The Alcoholism Division operatedtwo evening outpatient clinics and a daytimedrop in system, and offered training,consultation, and research. The 14 monthtraining program, which was open to membersof the community, students, and professionals,aimed to prepare the trainees to provide directcare in an individual or group setting, to makeeffective referrals, and to coordinate care whileworking with professionals and othercommunity agencies. The content of the coursevaried according to the needs and interests ofeach particular training group. Classroom workwas supported by mandatory andsupplementary reading. Trainees also visitedthe clinic to observe treatment from a patient'sperspective. After completing the coursework,trainees spent 4 hours a week in interactionwith patients, attend staff meetings, and thecontinuing education program. The presence ofa large, qualified group of volunteer counselorshelped the clinic to attract and treat morepatients.8 references. (HE9700341)063Understanding Volunteer Peer HealthEducators' Motivations: Applying SocialLearning Theory.Form:Journal article.Authors:Klein, N.A.; Sondag, K.A.;Drolet, J.C.Source:Journal of American College Health.43(3): 126 130, November 1994.Abstract: Researchers conducted five focusgroup interviews with students who were peereducators at a midwestera university todetermine what factors motivate students tovolunteer for a peer health education program.Interview questions explored students' lifeexperiences, their expectations of the peereducation program, and their motivations.Constructs from social learning theory wereused to categorize and contribute tounderstanding of the responses. Manyparticipants specified experiences with familymembers or friends, such as alcoholism or otherillnesses, that influenced their decisions. Thepeer health educators' motivations forvolunteering were altruistic, such as wanting tohelp others; egoistic, such as wanting jobtraining; or related to self efficacy beliefs, suchas satisfying a personal need for healtheducation. Volunteers were influenced to joinby their life experiences, a belief in theeffectiveness of peer health educationprograms, and positive reinforcement to join.26 references. (HE9500174)064Use of Volunteers in a Community MentalHealth Center Emergency and ReceptionServices: A Comparative Study ofProfessional and Lay TelephoneCounseling.Form:Journal article.Authors: O'Donnell, J.M.; George, K.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.13(1):3 12, Spring 1977.Abstract:Researchers tested a model ofcommunity participation in the emergency andreception service of a community mental healthcenter by comparing telephone counselingeffectiveness of volunteers to the effectivenessof the center's professional staff. Afterrecruitment and a selective screening process,volunteers receive 15 hours of didactic andexperiential training in crisis theory, effectiveinterpersonal communication, and use ofcommunity resources, and 15 hours minimumof closely supervised on line experience withcallers. Ongoing refresher training is conductedfor all volunteers at approximately 6 week41The Community Health Advisor/Workerintervals. Four groups of 10 persons eachparticipated in a study of telephone counselingeffectiveness:10 community mental healthcenter professional staff (Group P), 10experienced telephone hotline volunteers with aminimum of1 year of experience per volunteer(Group EV), 10 recently trained butinexperienced volunteers (Group IV), and acontrol group (Group C) comprised of 10college sophomores having had no involvementwith, or intention to, volunteer for telephonehotline work. Researchers instructed 40 collegesophomores in role playing and randomlyassigned a typical crisis telephone problem topresent to an anonymous counselor over thetelephone.Role playing callers completed aconsumer satisfaction questionnaire providing asubjective rating of the counselor's helpfulness.All calls were recorded and replayed forobjective rating by two pairs of advancedpsychology student raters. Assessment criteriaconsisted of modified scales from the Carkhuff(1969) Scales for Assessment of InterpersonalFunctioning and additional scales.Professionals, experienced trained volunteers,and inexperienced trained volunteers scoredsignificantly higher than did untrained controlparticipants. Researchers report that carefullyselected and trained volunteers can function aseffectively as professional staff in providingsupportive and emergency telephone servicesfor distressed callers and community mentalhealth center clients.2 figures,1 table,30 references. (HE9700065)065Volunteer Stress and Burnout:Issues forAdministrators.Form:Journal article.Authors:Paradis, L.F.; Miller, B.;Runnion, V.M.Source: Hospice Journal.3(2 3):165 183,Summer Fall 1987.Abstract:In this article, two healthprofessionals identify primary stressorsexperienced by volunteers who provide directpatient care, based on information collectedthrough investigations on volunteercharacteristics at five research sites, informalchats with volunteers at state and nationalhospice meetings, and formal interviews withhospice volunteers and volunteer coordinators.To investigate sources of stress, the reseachersrandomly selected and interviewed 38volunteers (ages 18 to 65 years). Volunteerswere asked to identify stressors in theirvolunteer experience, problems related totraining, the length of time they intended to staywith the program, and their reasons for stayingor leaving. On the basis of volunteer responses,researchers grouped volunteer stress into fourareas that included(1) role ambiguity, (2)status ambiguity, (3) patients and families, and(4) stress caused by the volunteer's personalcircumstances.Researchers recommend thatvolunteer coordinators develop an interviewguide to screen community volunteers for theirability to handle sensitive issues in death anddying and to cope with grief and loss, andprovide an ongoing training program, stress reduction support groups, and evaluation ofeach training session. 30 references.(HE9700075)42The Community Health Advisor/WorkerEvaluation066Community Health Aides: How EffectiveAre They?Form:Journal article.Authors: Cauffman, J.G.; Wingert, W.A.;Friedman, D.B.; Warburton, E.A.; Hanes, B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.60(10): 1904 1909, October 1970.Abstract:This article discusses a studyconducted in the Pediatric Emergency Room(PER) of the Los Angeles County University ofSouthern California Medical Center to measurethe ability of community health aides toperform in an educational capacity related topatient care. Researchers hypothesized thatmothers instructed by community health aideswould be as likely to comply with Physicians'Upper Respiratory Infection (URI) Order Listsas would mothers who were instructed bypublic health nurses or by physicians. Projectstaff recruited and trained community healthaides to teach mothers how to care for theirchildren when they had an upper respiratoryinfection. The aides were either of AfricanAmerican or Spanish surname backgrounds,(the dominant ethnic groups attending the PER)had a high school education, and ranged in agefrom 18 to 35. Two pediatricians, two publichealth nurses, and a health educator trained theaides. Mothers were randomly assigned to theaides, to nurses, or to physicians to receiveinstruction about their children's URI. Afteridentifying a child's illness as a URI, thephysician asked the mother to follow from1 to1 1 orders on the Physicians' URI Order List.A mother was classified as having followed thePhysicians' Order List only if she followed allof the URI orders that were assigned to her atthe PER.If a mother did not perform all of theorders, she was classified as not havingfollowed the physician's orders. An analysis ofthe data indicated that there was no differencein compliance among mothers who wereinstructed by community health aides, by publichealth nurses, or by physicians. This projectdemonstrated that aides can be trained toassume important responsibilities in maternaleducation.1 table, 14 references.(HE9401371)067Comparative Effectiveness of Professionaland Paraprofessional Helpers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hattie, J.A.; Sharpley, C.F.;Rogers, H.J.Source:Psychological Bulletin.95(3):534 541, May 1984.Abstract:Researchers demonstrate theusefulness of meta analysis procedures toresolve many of the unresolved differencesbetween researchers Durlak, Nietzel, and Fisheron the relative effectiveness of professional andparaprofessional counselors. Although theauthors agree that greater use is being made ofparaprofessionals in the mental health field thanpreviously, they disagree on the value of suchuse. Using a box score analysis of 42 studies,Durlak concluded that the clinical outcomesparaprofessionals achieve are equal to, orsignificantly better than, those obtained byprofessionals.Nietzel and Fisher disagreed,arguing that in many instances the researchdesign used was inappropriate to theeffectiveness issue, the definition of terms wassuspect, and the design and power of many of43The Community Health Advisor/Workerthe 42 studies were questionable.Effect sizesbased on 154 comparisons from 39 studiesindicated that clients who seek help fromparaprofessionals are more likely to achieveresolution of their problem than those whoconsult professionals. The more experiencedthe paraprofessionals, the greater theireffectiveness as compared with professionals.However, the more recent the training of theprofessional, the greater the effect. Theresearchers' conclusion is supportive of, but isnot as strong as, Durlak's conclusion thatparaprofessional achieve clinical outcomesequal to, or significantly better than, thoseobtained by professionals. According to theauthors, evidence demonstrates thatparaprofessionals must be considered effectiveadditions to the helping services.1 table,25 references. (HE9700084)068Developing a Tool to Record Changes:Impact of EFNEP on Some Nutrition related Practices.Form:Journal article.Authors: Murphy, M.J.; Smiciklas Wright, H.;Heasley, D.K.; Hamilton, L.W.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation.76(6):570 574, June 1980.Abstract:Researchers describe a nutritionevaluation instrument designed to measure foodstorage and safety, kitchen sanitation, and foodmoney management by families participating inthe Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP), The goal of the EFNEP,administered by the Cooperative ExtensionService of the U.S. Department of Agriculture,is to improve the diets and nutritional practicesof disadvantaged, hard to reach familiesthrough individualized, home based instruction.The evaluation was intended (1) to collectuniform data to standardize program evaluation,(2) to provide a diagnostic tool to help assess ahomemaker's progress and to determineappropriate educational strategies for informingthe homemaker, and (3) to serve as a progressrecord to help the nutrition aides more easilyidentify any success and improvement inworking with families. Pennsylvania nutritionaides tested the evaluation instrument todetermine whether a correlation exists betweenthe length of time a homemaker participates inthe EFNEP and her performance with regard tonutrition related practices. Variable controlsincluded (1) the length of time a homemakerhad participated in the EFNEP, (2) thehomemaker's place of residence, (3) thehomemaker's education level, (4) familyincome, and (5) number of children in thehome. The instrument revealed a trend towardimproved performance but not a strong,statistically significant correlation. Aides'comments reflected compassion, practicality,sharp insight, and a strong loyalty to theirprogram families. Researchers believe that thisdemonstrates, in part, insufficient emphasis onnutrition related practices and suggest that moretraining and teaching materials addressingnutrition practices are needed. 4 tables,6 references. (HE9700067)069Economic Evaluation of Home VisitingPrograms.Form:Journal article.Author: Barnett,W.S.Source:Future of Children.3(3):93 112,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses an economicevaluation of home visiting programs.Economic evaluation can be used to improvehome visiting policy and practice and to directresources to the most effective programs.Measuring the costs and benefits of home44Evaluationvisiting programs includes (1) defining thescope of the analysis; (2) measuring the costs,estimating the program effects or outcomes, andplacing monetary value on the effects; (3)accounting for the effects of time on costs ofresources; (4) summing the calculations of thevaluation of costs and outcomes across yearsand deciding which program is the bestalternative; (5) describing who gains and wholoses under each option; (6) identifying criticalassumptions made in the analysis and exploringthe effects of reasonable variations in thoseassumptions; and (7) describing the importantprogram effects that cannot be monetarilyvalued or perhaps even quantified. The authordiscusses six studies that reviewed the cost effectiveness of various home visiting programsthat varied in their goals, methods, and targetpopulations. The studies relied on narrowdefinitions of cost and placed value on selectedbenefits to which monetary values could easilybe assigned. The studies were clustered intothree groups: home visits after early hospitaldischarge, educational home visits combinedwith developmental child care and otherservices for low income families, and healthorganization sponsored home visits aimed atimproving parental care of infants and childhealth and development. The authors suggestthat the evaluation results show that two generation programs that address the needs ofparents and children can produce large benefits,and therefore appear to be an important focusfor economic evaluation.Results also suggest afocus on interventions targeting low incomeexpectant mothers and other high riskpopulations that have been found to beresponsive to home visiting. An appendixoutlines the nine essential steps involved in thecost benefit evaluation of home visitingprograms.3 tables, 45 references.(HE9700606)070Effectiveness and Efficiency of IndigenousHealth Aides in a Pediatric OutpatientDepartment.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wingert, W.A.; Grubbs, J.; Lenoski,E.F.; Friedman, D.B.Source: American Journal of Public Health.65(8):849 857, August 1975.Abstract:Investigators at the University ofSouthern California Medical Center sought(1) to determine whether1 year ofcomprehensive health supervision couldimprove the health and social welfare ofindigent families, and (2) to compare theeffectiveness of professional public healthnurses (PHN's) to that of supervisednonprofessional health aides in providing suchhealth care supervision. Seven female healthaides (ages 18 to 59 years) were recruited fromthe community served by the hospital. Thetraining program for the health aides included 2months of lectures, conferences, anddemonstrations that included family problemidentification and resolution, with continuouson the job instruction and weekly conferencesthereafter for 10 months. The health aidesperformed a complete survey of a family within1 month of program completion. At the end ofthe study, the project director and the PHNsupervisor evaluated the aides' performance.Results indicate that the aides were able tocollect and record data and perform a battery oftechnical multiphasic screening procedures ascapably as highly educated professionals.Aides, however, could not identify problems aseffectively as nurses and could not recognizemajor problems in all areas as well as PHN's.Aides and professionals did not differsignificantly in their pediatric problem solvingability, but the nurses proved superior to the45The Community Health Advisor/Workeraides in helping adults. 4 tables, 15 references.(HE9700O72)071Evaluation of Social Problem SolvingAbilities in Rural Home Health Visitorsand Visiting Nurses.Form:Journal article.Authors:lessee, P.O.; Cecil, C.E.Source:Maternal Child Nursing Journal.20(2):53 64, Summer 1992.Abstract:Researchers compared the skills andabilities of a selected sample of womeninvolved in home health care to suggest andthen prioritize solutions to a client's medicalproblem.Participants were 77 females residingin rural counties in west Alabama. Homevisitors who were trained, hired, and worked formore than 6 months in the Rural AlabamaPregnancy and Infant Health Program (RAPIH)constituted one group of black women. Homevisitors who had finished training and wereeither not hired or had worked for less than 7months constituted a second group (100 percentblack). Home visiting nurses from the AlabamaPublic Health Services serving the WestAlabama Health District constituted the thirdgroup. A group of black women from localcommunities who were recommended byproject personnel served as the controls.Researchers used two instruments, ThePractical Solutions Test (PST) and a Ranking ofSolutions Procedure (RSP), to gatherinformation. All of the trained groups wereable to generate more solutions to a typicalclient medical problem than was the controlgroup. The nurses group was more likely thanthe home visitors to suggest medical optionsover socioemotional solutions. The nurses alsoprioritized the solutions differently by rankingthem in a different sequence.Researchersconclude that the primary emphasis on medicaltopics seemed to be one of the factors thatdiscouraged client participation in the RAPIHproject during its first years of operation. Whenhome visitors were selected for employment onthe basis of personal qualities such asflexibility, empathy, and a strong sense of self,and when their training was redirected toprovide mothers with a source of emotionalsupport, client enrollment increased. 2 tables,22 references. (HE9700058)072Point of Diminishing Returns in NutritionEducation Through Home Visits by Aides:An Evaluation of EFNEP.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wang, V.L.; Ephross, PH.;Green, L.W.Source:Health Education Monograph.3(l):70 88, Spring 1975.Abstract: To determine the point ofdiminishing returns in continuing visits tohomemakers, investigators conducted a 3 yearevaluation of field work among low income,rural homemakers by nutrition aides employedby the Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) of the Maryland CooperativeExtension Service. Local aides were recruited,trained, and supervised by Extension staff. Oneof two experimental groups consisted of 49EFNEP homemakers being visited by aidesafter 3 years in the program. The secondexperimental group consisted of 44homemakers who had left the program after theend of their second year. The comparisongroups consist of matched samples of 34designated friends from the first experimentalgroup members and 24 friends of the secondexperimental group members. End of service tohomemakers in the second and third years wascontrolled by aides and homemakers, not by theinvestigators. The homemakers who continued46Evaluationin the program were more economicallydependent and socially disadvantaged than werethe homemakers who left the program. Thereseachers suggest that major gains innutritional adequacy, if any, were achieved inthe first year of contact between aide andhomemaker. The results suggest various pointsof diminishing returns beyond which behavioraland attitudinal changes are too small to justifycontinued home visits to a homemaker.Ingeneral, it appears that the third year of homevisits is superfluous. If cost effective homevisits are to be sustained after the first year,more emphasis must be placed onreinforcement of first year gains and onexpanding the scope of nutrition education toinclude other kinds of health education.7 tables, 9 references. (HE9700312)073Randomized Clinical Trial of HomeIntervention for Children With Failure toThrive.Form:Journal article.Authors:Black, M.M.; Dubowitz, H.;Hutcheson, J.; Berenson Howard, J.; Starr, R.H.Source:Pediatrics.95(6):807 814, June 1995.Abstract: The authors conducted a randomizedclinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a home based intervention on the growth anddevelopment of children with nonorganicfailure to thrive. The sample included 130children recruited from urban pediatric primarycare clinics serving low income families.Eighty nine percent of the families completedthe study. All of the children were youngerthan age 25 months, with weight for age belowthe fifth percentile. The authors randomized thechildren into two groups: clinic plus homeintervention, or clinic only. The childrenreceived services at a multidisciplinary growthand nutrition clinic. The group that had clinicplus home intervention also received weeklyhome visits for1 year. Three trained, lay homevisitors conducted the home intervention,supervised by a community health nurse. Layhome visitors were selected for their experiencewith children and families, their interpersonalskills, their knowledge of the community, andtheir commitment. The lay visitors completed atraining program that covered (1) children'shealth and nutrition, (2) infant and toddlerdevelopment, (3) activities to promotechildren's development, (4) parent childinteraction, (5) behavior management, (6)relationship building, (7) family relationships,(8) child and family advocacy, (9) problemsolving, and (10) community resources andservices. The lay visitors provided maternalsupport and promoted parenting, childdevelopment, use of informal and formalresources, and parental advocacy. A nurseweighed and measured all of the children in thesample to assess wasting and stunting. Theauthors measured language development, alongwith cognitive and motor development, atrecruitment and at the 12 month follow up.They also measured parent child interaction byobserving mothers and children during feedingat recruitment and at the 12 month follow up,and measured the quality of the homeenvironment by the Home Observation Measureof the Environment1 8 months afterrecruitment. Analysis showed significantimprovement in weight for age, weight forheight, and height for age during the studyperiod, regardless of the intervention status.The authors concluded that home interventionby lay home visitors had a beneficial effect oninfant cognitive and receptive languagedevelopment and on the quality of the homeenvironment. They also concluded that thehome intervention might have been enhancedby including more specific activities targeted tothe developmental needs of toddlers, along withlinks to other health and social service47The Community Health Advisor/Workerprograms. 3 tables, 70 references.(HE9600947)074Three Years Later: An Evaluation ofVolunteer Training.Form:Journal article.Author:Pearse, D.T.Source:Gerontologist.6(3): 154 158,September 1966.Abstract: The author describes an evaluationof the Sargent House Project of the EpiscopalDiocese of Washington (District of Columbia),which was conducted from 1959 though 1962as a demonstration project to train volunteers towork with the elderly. Six training courses of 10hours each were given. Training includedcourse instruction and on the job supervision.A major purpose of the project was to stimulatethe trained volunteers in developing programsfor the aged in various locations throughout themetropolitan area. After the foundingdemonstration grant ran out, the project endedin June 1962. To evaluate the results of thetraining 3 years after the project ended,investigators sent questionnaires to the 15continuing volunteers; 13 completed thequestionnaire. Fourteen of the original 46trained volunteers continued to provide servicesto a group of senior citizens in seven locationson a regular, continuing basis. Lack of anyeffective recruitment measures for bothvolunteer leaders and new participants, lack offunds, and the isolation of the groups from thehost facility hindered the program's possiblefuture progress.2 references. (HE9700349)48Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs075Activating Ideas: Promoting PhysicalActivity Among Older Adults. A Guide forProgram Planners and Volunteer Leaders.Form: Manual.Author:DiGilio, D.A.Source: Washington, DC, AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons, 65 p., 1994.Abstract: This manual was designed for olderadult volunteers and program planners whowant to develop and promote exercise programsfor older adults. The manual suggests strategiesto encourage older adults to exercise regularly.Part1, Physical Activity and Older Adults,includes (1) The Problem, (2) The Definition,(3) The Benefits, and (4) Beyond Benefits toBehavior. The second part, Program Strategiesfor Breaking Down Barriers, offers (1) LineDancing Delivers, (2) Walking Works Wonders,(3) No Pain and A Lot to Gain Exercise, (4)Physician Prescriptions, (5) Self SupportingPrograms Survive, (6) Promote Peer LedPrograms, (7) Personalized Programs, (8) Bias Buster Media Events, and (9) Bridging theGeneration Gap.Part 3, A Variety of ActivatingIdeas, comprises (1) Down With Dropouts, (2)Marketing Tips, (3) Reaching the At Risk, (4)Networking in a Nutshell, (5) Networking at theLocal Level, and (6) Networking at the State/National Level. The fourth and final part,Resources, includes (1) Exercise Regimens andActivities, (2) Program Design andManagement, (3) Journal Articles forProfessionals, (4) Health Education Materialsfor Older Adults, (5) Marketing, and (6)Funding. (HE9601252)076Establishing Community Health Centers inRural Appalachia Utilizing Lay Volunteers.Form: Newsletter article.Author:Morris, F.J.Source: Human Services in the RuralEnvironment.3(1): 1 4, January 1978.Abstract: This article describes theestablishment of 10 Community Health Centersin the homes of volunteers in communitiesthroughout Harlan County, Kentucky, by theSoutheast Community College AppalachianLeadership Community Outreach (ALCOR).ALCOR is a nonprofit, privately fundedcorporation working through six easternKentucky colleges to serve the residents of ruralAppalachia. The Community Health Centerswere established in response to the need ofconsumers in rural areas for health care in thecommunity and as a way to provide continuoushealth care. At each of the 10 sites, ALCORstudents trained a reliable and respectedvolunteer in basic first aid pressuremeasurements. The volunteers were providedwith a stethoscope, pressure cuff, and bookletson blood pressure to distribute to communityresidents. Each center received a set ofbathroom scales and a first aid kit containing asnake bite kit and a thermometer. Thevolunteers' homes became the location ofvarious community health education programs.ALCOR students presented programs on thewarning signs of cancer, breast self examination using silicone breast forms withactual lumps, nutrition, dental hygiene, andcoronary care.Screening tests for anemia,diabetes, sickle cell anemia, cholesterol,parasites, vision, hearing, and blood group andRh, were available to community members atno charge. All positive findings were referredfor follow up care. (HE9700734)49Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programs077Evaluation of Modeling Role Playing andLecture Discussion Training Techniquesfor College Student Mental HealthParaprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Authors: Teevan, K.G.; Gabel, H.Source:Journal of Counseling Psychology.25(2):169 171, 1978.Abstract: Researchers evaluated the relativeeffectiveness of modeling and role playing andlecture discussion training techniques for 45college students who worked as mental healthparaprofessionals. The college students thatparticipated in the study were primarily female,were between1 8 and 24 years old, and had noprevious counseling training or experience.Participants were divided equally among threegroups:(1) the lecture discussion group,(2) the modeling and role playing group, and(3) a control group. Both the lecture discussiongroup and the modeling/role playing groupreceived 9 hours of training within a 2 dayperiod and then completed assessmentmeasures. The control group completed theassessment measures first and then received 9hours of training. Training for both treatmentgroups focused on the initial skills andinformation necessary for a paraprofessionalcrisis call counselor and included (1) crisistheory, (2) listening skills, (3) values incounseling, (4) drug counseling, and (5) suicideprevention techniques. Assessment measuresincluded a written questionnaire and a small group role play. Counselor statements wererated and mean empathy level was calculatedfor each participant.Initial statistical analysesindicated that there were no significantdifferences between groups, suggesting initialequivalence of the groups. However, results ofthe counselor statement ratings and meanempathy levels showed that the modeling androle playing group chose the highest number ofappropriate responses and achieved higherratings on empathy level and counseling skills.These results are consistent with earlierresearch that supports the idea that training doesin fact lead to improved paraprofessionalperformance. Evidence shows that trainingtechniques that incorporate modeling and role playing are superior to lecture discussionmethods. The results can likely be applied toother training programs that share a goal ofinterest in development of rudimentarycounseling skills in a relatively brief trainingperiod.1 table, 15 references. (HE9700615)078Increasing Participation in HealthPromotion Among Older African Americans.Form:Journal article.Author: Williams, M.P.Source: American Journal of Health Behavior.20(6):389 399, November December 1996.Abstract: The authors developed andimplemented a health promotion programdesigned to reach older African Americans withhealth messages that could increase theirawareness of the risk factors for disablingillness and increase their participation in healthpromotion activities. The authors targeted twoGeorgia areas with large, older, blackpopulations. The authors conducted a needsassessment and developed the program intothree major components:(1) a culturallysensitive health promotion training programdesigned to increase participation in outreachactivities, (2) the use of the grassroots networkto disseminate health education materials, and(3) the use of indigenous older adults as layeducators and health advocates. Programdevelopers divided the content of the trainingcurriculum into three general categories:(1)50Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programschronic disease education and self care, (2)lifestyle education, and (3) consumer education.Category topics were developed into 12 trainingmodules packaged in an instructor's guide. Asecond guide was developed for thoseparticipants who were trained as lay educators.The authors reviewed health promotion andeducation materials and conducted a pilot test todetermine which guide the target populationwas most likely to use.Researchers recruitedand trained members of the target population aslay health educators to promote the healtheducation program. The health promotiontraining program was open to anyone over theage of 55 living in a target community.Program staff conducted a 12 week trainingprogram for each of the partnershiporganizations and evaluated the program usinga brief registration form that was completed byeach attendee. The program exceeded initialexpectations, both in the extent and enthusiasmof response and in the program's ability todeliver an education program to a populationpreviously considered hard to reach.1 figure,3 tables, 27 references. (HE9700462)079Neighbor to Neighbor: Community HealthWorkers Educate Their Own.presentations a year in which they taught localwomen about birth control, disease prevention,and the importance of regular breastexaminations, mammographies, andPapanicolaou smears. Training from 20 to 120hours was provided, depending on the program.CHW's were responsible for motivating andempowering community members to identifytheir own needs and implement their ownsolutions through advocacy, outreach, healthand promotion, disease prevention, andprofessionally supervised direct care. Elementsof a successful CHW program includedestablished rapport with the community,assessment of community health needs at theproject onset, multilingual and multiculturalstaff, shared ownership and decision making,flexibility, and linkages to a referral system.(HE9700077)080Using Paraprofessionals in the ArkansasHealth Education Programs.Form:Journal article.Authors: Fox, E.L.; Lammers, J.W.;Deere, R.E.Source:Health Education.9(2): 12 13, March April 1978.Form:Journal article.Author:Sherer, J.L.Source:Hospitals and Health Networks.68(20):52 54, 56, October 20, 1994.Abstract: A health professional describes theefforts of community health workers (CHW's),who were serving as health promoters amongresidents in their respective communities thathave traditionally lacked access to adequatehealth care. Sponsored by Planned Parenthood,the Promotoras Communitarias program wasone of many being established across thecountry. Promotoras hosted at least six in homeAbstract:Reseachers studied the use ofindigenous homemakers as community healtheducation aides. The 120 hour aide trainingprogram focused on specific diseases, basic firstaid, and basic home sanitation. Aides alsoreceived instruction in referring clients toappropriate resources in the local healthdelivery system. The aide taught thehomemaker one preprepared mini lesson on(1)the effects of living habits on health; (2) the useof preventive health practices; (3) when topractice self care as opposed to resorting toprofessional care; (4) the effects of a cleanhome environment on health; and (5)51Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Programsunderstanding of the local health care deliverycommunity self reliance. 4 figures,system. Program assessment, as measured by a16 references. (HE9 100636)participant a family review form, showedsignificant improvement in all categories ofhealth knowledge and maintenance behavior,except dental care and weight loss.(HE7900635)081Women's Health Perspective in PrimaryHealth Care: A Nursing and CommunityHealth Worker Demonstration Project inUrban America.Form:Journal article.Authors: Swider, S.M.; McElmurry, BJ.Source: Family and Community Health.13(3):1 17, November 1990.Abstract: The Primary Health Care in UrbanCommunities demonstration project trainedcommunity residents as community healthworkers to work in two low incomecommunities in Chicago, Illinois. Onecommunity was primarily black, with a largeconcentration of families in poverty, living inpublic housing, and with female single heads ofhousehold; the other was a low income,multiethnic community in which most residentswere Hispanic, primarily Mexican American.The PHCUC project, developed by theWomen's Health Group at the College ofNursing, University of Illinois at Chicago(UIC), aimed to implement the primary healthstrategy in two neighborhoods by training localwomen as community health workers in thesecommunities. The perspective at UIC onwomen's health focused on learning aboutmultiple aspects of women's life experiences:historical, political, cultural, developmental,and socioeconomic. The project worked withwomen in the community to help them addresscommunity health concerns; the emphasis wason collaboration, essential health services, and52Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsAsthma082Targeting High Risk Groups:Neighborhood Organization for PediatricAsthma Management in the NeighborhoodAsthma Coalition.Form:Journal article.Authors:Fisher, E.B.; Sussman, L.K.;Arfken, C; Harrison, D.; Munro, J.;Sykes, R.K.; Sylvia, S.; Strunk, R.C.Source:Chest.106(4, Supplement):248S 259S, October 1994.Abstract:The Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition offered a community organizationapproach to promoting basic understanding ofasthma and encouraging improved care in fourlow income, predominantly African American,neighborhoods of St. Louis, Missouri. TheNeighborhood Asthma Coalition emphasizedneighborhood and community organizationstrategies and social support to reach asthmaticchildren, their parents or caretakers, and otherfamily and friends. The Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition activities included (1) promotionalcampaigns to increase awareness of asthma andits care and to recruit participants into coalitionprograms; (2) neighborhood residents trained asCASS (changing asthma through socialsupport) workers to work with asthmaticchildren and their caregivers to encourageasthma management and to conductmanagement programs in local institutions; (3)a neighborhood summer day camp and year round neighborhood asthma activities forasthmatic children, their families, and friends;(4) an asthma management curriculum offeredthrough the camp and neighborhood activities,and through community health centers andchurches; and (5) plans for activities inneighborhood schools. The NeighborhoodAsthma Coalition operated in the targetneighborhoods also served by Grace HillNeighborhood Services, an affiliation of eightsettlement houses, a housing corporation, andseveral health centers. CASS workersdeveloped a yearly calendar that included hintsand reminders on asthma management andlistings of medical providers, pharmacies,sources of aid for medical care and medication,and other sources of services and support. Thecoalition produced In Our Own Words,composed of the statements of summer campersregarding their feelings about asthma and newperspectives gained through camp. OpenAirways, the American Lung Association'scurriculum for school based asthmamanagement programs, was reviewed andadapted for use in coalition activities.Inaddition to appropriate evaluation surveys of thecommunity and schools, evaluation centers on acontrolled, cohort study of neighborhoodchildren compared with children fromcomparable neighborhoods. The authorsconclude that the Neighborhood AsthmaCoalition illustrates the potential of communityorganization approaches to involveneighborhood residents in planning andimplementing programs for asthma educationand management.1 figure, 4 tables,41 references. (HE9600949)53Chronsc Diseases and Risk FactorsCancer083Breast and Cervical Cancer Project in aNative Hawaiian Community: Wai'anaeCancer Research Project.Form:Journal article.Authors:Banner, R.O.; DeCambra, H.; Enos,R.; Gotay, C; Hammond, O.W.; Hedlund, N.;Issell, B.F.; Matsunaga, D.S.; Tsark, J.A.Source: Preventive Medicine.24(5):447 453,September 1995.Abstract:Researchers presented preliminaryfindings from the first year of the Wai'anaeCancer Research Project, a communityintervention to increase breast and cervicalcancer screening practices among nativeHawaiian women. Researchers conducted abaseline telephone survey to obtain an initialassessment of community knowledge, attitudes,and behaviors related to cancer among womenin the intervention community and in a controlcommunity. Women from the communityconducted the interviews, using interviewprotocols similar to the Behavioral Risk FactorSurvey Study (BRFSS) of the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention (CDC), whichwere modified to reflect culturally appropriatetechniques. The sample included 1,260 women,ages1 8 to 60 years, drawn equally from thestudy and control communities. This samplesize allowed for the detection of a 10 percentincrease in adherence to cancer screeningguidelines. The primary intervention involvedthe formation of health activated supportgroups, called Kokua Groups, within existingHawaiian social networks. Volunteer peerleaders recruited the groups, and outreacheducators facilitated them. The support groupssought to change the behavior of women notcurrently receiving cancer screening. Surveyrespondents were relatively evenly distributedacross age groups, with almost 50 percent underage 40. Although only 52 percent ofrespondents knew about the Papanicolaou (Pap)test, 94 percent reported having received at leastone Pap test. Eighty percent reported practicingbreast self examination at least periodically, and80 percent reported having obtained a clinicalbreast examination during the past 2 years. Ofthe women over age 40, 71 percent reportedhaving had at least one mammogram in thepast, and 59 percent reported having had amammogram during the past 2 years. Thirty sixpercent of the women stated that they hadencouraged others to obtain breast cancerscreening. Twenty eight percent reportedhaving used native Hawaiian medical remediesduring the past year.Results indicate that amajority of the participants took part in cancerdetection and screening activities. A significantminority, however, did not participate in cancerscreening. 2 tables, 16 references.(CP9600102)084Community Level Cancer Control in aTexas Barrio: Part I, Theoretical Basis,Implementation, and Process Evaluation.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ramirez, A.G.; McAlister, A.;Gallion, K.J.; Ramirez, V.; Garza, I.R.; Stamm,K.; de la Torre, J.; Chalela, P.Source:Journal of the National CancerInstitute Monographs.18:117 122, 1995.Abstract: Researchers designed andimplemented Programma A Su Salud, a theory based program that used peer modeling and a55Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsnetwork of peer communicators to promotebreast and cervical cancer screening in a barrioof San Antonio, Texas, with a population ofapproximately 25,000 women. The mainobjectives of the program were to increasescreening and compliance with Papanicolaousmear test recommendations among MexicanAmerican women over age 17, and to increasescreening and compliance with mammographyrecommendations among Mexican Americanwomen over age 39. The program combinedmass media and community activities in itspeer based approach. The program used severalforms of mass media, including print, radio, andtelevision in both English and Spanish formatsto present role models. Role models wererecruited from the community and eachreflected the same socioeconomic, ethnic, andcultural characteristics as the targeted audience.Results of a program evaluation showed thatapproximately 84,000 pieces of programmaterial were disseminated over 2 years. Anaverage of 5.7 stories were published per monthabout the program, with the majority appearingin newspapers. A total of 85 volunteers wererecruited to participate in the program; 92percent were female, average education wasseventh to eighth grade, and average age was49. Each of the volunteers helped an average of12 of their peers to make screeningappointments, and an average of 6 werefollowed by the volunteer to make sure theappointment was kept.5 tables, 24 references.(CP9500588)085Effect of a Cancer Screening InterventionConducted by Lay Health Workers AmongInner City Women.Form:Journal article.Authors: Sung, J.; Blumenthal, D.S.;Coates, R.J.; Williams, J.E.; Alema Mensah, E.;Liff, J.M.Source: American Journal of PreventiveMedicine.13(l):51 57, January February1997.Abstract: The authors conducted a trial todetermine if an in home, culturally sensitiveeducational intervention conducted by layhealth workers (LHW's) could increaseadherence among low income, inner city,African American women to breast and cervicalcancer screening schedules. The LHW's wererecruited from the National Black Women'sHealth Project (NBWHP), a self help healthorganization for African American women. TheLHW's trained for 10 weeks in interviewingand health education topics before theintervention and then interviewed 321 women,using a standardized questionnaire. The womenwere recruited from the patient registry of aninner city community health center; frompersonal contacts in public housing projects,business establishments, and churches; andthrough referrals from the NBWHP. Thequestionnaire assessed past history of cervicaland breast cancer screening and knowledge andattitudes toward cancer and cancer prevention.Participants were then randomly assigned tointervention and control groups. LHW's visitedthe intervention group participants in theirhomes two times,1 month apart, and scheduleda booster session for 2 months after the secondsession. The sessions focused on breast andcervical cancer, cancer screening procedures,reproductive health, and high risk sexualpractices. The intervention also included a56Cancervideotape of an African American womanreceiving a Papanicolaou (Pap) test and breastself examination from an African Americanphysician. The LHW's conducted follow upinterviews, with the intervention and controlgroups 6 months after the intervention.In bothbaseline and follow up interviews, participantswere asked when they had last received cancerscreening exams. The control group receivededucational materials on cancer screening afterthe completion of the follow up interview.Results showed the increase in screening forPap tests was similar in both the control andintervention groups. There was a small increasein clinical breast examinations in theintervention group, with the greatest increasebeing for mammography. Among women whowere not on recommended breast and cervicalcancer screening schedules at baseline, thescheduling improvement was substantial andgreater in the intervention group. The use ofLHW's in the project contributed to the increasein breast cancer screening for the interventiongroup. The researchers also discussed thepotential for using LHW's and the difficultiesof providing health education and promotion tolow income, inner city residents. 4 tables,25 references. (CP9700266)086Intervention to Increase Breast andCervical Cancer Screening in Low IncomeAfrican American Women.Illinois. The intervention, conducted from June1989 to November 1990, was implemented bynurses and outreach workers who were chosenbased on their level of cultural sensitivity andfamiliarity within the community. At aneighborhood center, the intervention programpresented a class on breast and cervical cancerand an invitation to screening. AnotherDepartment of Health center served as a controlsite. Nurses recruited women who expressed aninterest in participating in the program;outreach occurred in many institutions in thecommunity, including churches, beauty shops,laundromats, libraries, and grocery stores. Theprimary outcome measure used to evaluate theintervention was the proportion of eligiblewomen who received screening examinations inthe 12 months prior to data collection. Datawere abstracted from medical records for thewomen who had made an appointment orwalked in and were seen during the clinicsession. The proportion of women whoreceived Papanicolaou (Pap) smears rose from12 percent at baseline to 26 percent at 12months postintervention, the proportionreceiving clinical breast examination rose from6 percent to1 8 percent, and the proportionreceiving mammograms rose from 3 percent to1 1 percent.Screening proportions decreased inthe control group.2 tables, 27 references.(CP9400388)Form:Journal article.Authors: Whitman, S.; Lacey, L.; Ansell, D.Dell, J.; Chen, E.; Phillips, C.WSource: Family and Community Health.17(l):56 63, April 1994.Abstract: Researchers evaluated anintervention to increase breast cancer andcervical cancer screening in low income,African American women living in Chicago,57Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors087Lay Health Advisors: A Strategy forGetting the Word Out About BreastCancer.Form:Journal article.Authors:Earp, J.; Viadro, C.I.; Vincus, A.A.;Altpeter, M.; Flax, V.; Mayne, L.; Eng, E.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):432 451, August 1997.Abstract: The North Carolina Breast CancerScreening Program used a lay health advisor(LHA) intervention designed to increase the useof mammography screening services by AfricanAmerican women over age 50 years whoresided in five rural eastern North Carolinacounties. Five local African American womenwere hired as specialists to conduct communityassessments, recruit natural helpers and trainthem as LHA's, coordinate LHA activities, andcreate and work with five county communityadvisory groups. Then 125 women from thetarget communities were trained to serve asLHA's. Researchers developed a separatetraining manual for each county to reflect theunique concerns of the women in each countyand to provide county specific descriptions ofmammography services. The LHA's designedand conducted a variety of outreach activities insuch settings as African American churches,beauty parlors, supermarkets, and familyreunions. LHA activities (1) providededucation about breast cancer screening; (2)facilitated access to mammography facilities byproviding transportation, accompanying awoman to the screening, and disseminatinginformation about available services; and (3)addressed health system barriers by organizingspecial screening days or raising funds forwomen who could not afford mammograms.Multiple strategies were used to evaluate theLHA's profile, training, activities, and effect onbreast cancer screening behaviors of the targetpopulation. The primary challenges faced bythe program during implementation related toacquisition of resources, identification andrecruitment of committed LHA's, support forthe LHA activities, evaluation methodology,and the need for a multilevel interventionapproach that extended beyond the LHA'ssocial network focus. 2 tables, 44 references.(CP9700551)088Natural Helping Functions of Lay HealthAdvisors in Breast Cancer Education.Form:Journal article.Authors: Eng, E.; Smith, J.Source:Breast Cancer Research andTreatment.35(l):23 29, 1995.Abstract: The Save Our Sisters (SOS) Projectused the skills of 95 individuals called "naturalhelpers" to increase mammography screeningamong older black women in a North Carolinacounty.Natural helpers are lay people to whomothers naturally turn for advice, emotionalsupport, and tangible aid. To identify andrecruit natural helpers, the SOS project hired asSOS Project Coordinator a retired black womanfrom a black community who was sociallyactive in a range of local groups andassociations. She formed a1 2 membercommunity advisory group with contacts toother community groups; this advisory grouporganized 14 focus group interviews withmembers of different community organizationsand reviewed the findings.Interview resultswere used to develop the learning objectives fora Peace of Mind training course for lay healthadvisors (LHA's) and to describe thecharacteristics of natural helpers to whom olderwomen turn with female concerns. A total of125 potential LHA's were identified and 24completed the first training course. Findingsfrom the focus groups showed that older58Cancerwomen do seek out natural helpers to discusstheir personal concerns before they consultprofessionals. Through the SOS project,natural helpers provided a community basedsystem of care and social support thatcomplemented the more specialized role ofhealth professionals. The roles of the LHA'sincluded (1) assisting people in their socialnetworks with needs that are difficult forprofessionals to address, (2) negotiating withprofessionals for support from the healthsystem, and (3) mobilizing the resources ofassociations in their community to sustainsupport from the health system.2 tables,17 references. (CP9500567)089Por La Vida Intervention Model forCancer Prevention in Latinas.Form:Journal article.Authors: Navarro, A.M.; Senn, K.L.;Kaplan, R.M.; McNicholas, L.; Campo, M.C.;Roppe, B.Source:Journal of the National CancerInstitute Monographs.18:137 145, 1995.Abstract:Researchers describe thedevelopment and implementation of anintervention on cancer prevention for Latinas inSan Diego, California. Thirty six women fromthe Latino community were identified andrecruited as consejeras on the basis of theirleadership behaviors associated with thetraditional role of helpers in the Latinocommunity.Subsequently, these consejeraswere trained to conduct small groupeducational sessions on a particular healthtopic. Upon completion of the training, theconsejeras invited 512 low income Latinas whohad low levels of acculturation and education toparticipate in the small group educationalsessions from among their naturally occurringsocial networks (e.g., friends, neighbors, andfamily members).Half of the consejeras wererandomly assigned to a control group in whichthey conducted a program called CommunityLiving Skills; the remaining consejerasconducted Por La Vida, an intervention programfor cancer education. Using culturallyappropriate educational materials, theexperimental group of consejeras conducted PorLa Vida sessions based on empowermentstrategies, social support, and social learningtheory. The Por La Vida program consisted of12 weekly group sessions conducted over a 3 month period, followed by two additionalsessions. Topics included (1) Introduction; (2)The Fountain of My Life; (3) The FeminineBody; (4) Where Cancer Can be Found; (5)Keeping Your Uterus and Cervix Healthy; (6)Keeping Your Breasts Healthy; (7) OvercomingBarriers; (8) Eat Well to Live Well; (9) ProtectYour Health, Know Your Market; (10) Dangersof Smoking; (11) Moving Ahead; and (12)Graduation. Using pre and posttests, theresearchers found that in the cancer preventiongroups, Latinas over age 40 years who had everhad a mammogram increased from 51.8 percentto 64.3 percent, while there was no statisticallysignificant increase in the control group. Therewas no statistically significant change forLatinas over age1 8 years who ever had aPapanicolaou (Pap) test in the control group,but in the intervention group the tested rateincreased from 80.4 percent to 93.5 percent.Preliminary evidence suggests that the Por LaVida intervention may lead to significantincreases in the rates of cancer screening testuse and Pap test use.8 tables, 42 references.(CP9500591)59Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors090Reach to Recovery Program.Form:Journal article.Author:Rinehart, M.E.Source:Cancer.74(1, Supplement):372 375,July1, 1994.Abstract: Reach to Recovery is a peermodeling program provided by the AmericanCancer Society for women with a diagnosis ofbreast cancer. The program, designed to helpwomen meet the physical, emotional, andcosmetic needs related to their disease andtreatment, provides contact between womennewly diagnosed with breast cancer and womenwho have been treated for the disease. Programvolunteers must (1) have been treated for breastcancer; (2) have the approval of their physiciansto participate; (3) maintain confidentiality; (4)have adjusted to their diagnosis and beemotionally stable; (5) show warmth, courtesy,tact, and consideration during a visit; (6) beknowledgeable of professional ethics; and (7)agree to participate in yearly training updates.Potential volunteers participate in a screeninginterview, and if accepted, they participate in atraining session. Each new volunteeraccompanies a trained volunteer on a visitbefore going on a visit alone. The volunteerprovides the woman who has breast cancer withpractical information, emotional support, and atemporary prosthesis. The information includeswritten materials from the American CancerSociety about different types of breast cancertreatment, breast cancer copying techniques,breast reconstruction, and appropriate exercises.One follow up phone call is made to thewoman, usually within 2 weeks of the visit.The volunteer usually provides the woman'sphysician with a visit report and sends a writtenreport to the local cancer society office. Thewoman's physician must refer her to theprogram, although referrals can be initiated bythe nurse or social worker, and patients canrefer themselves to the program.1 figure,2 references. (HE9700091)091Save Our Sisters Project: A SocialNetwork Strategy for Reaching RuralBlack Women.Form:Journal article.Author: Eng, E.Source:Cancer.72(3): 107 1 1077,Supplement to August1, 1993.Abstract: The Save Our Sisters (SOS) Project,a pilot demonstration study in a rural NorthCarolina county, addressed breast cancerscreening in older black women in an effort tohelp more older black women receivemammography screening. The targetpopulation was 2,600 black women ages 50 to74 living in the county. To help these womenobtain annual mammograms, SOS recruited andtrained 64 black women to serve as lay healthadvisors. These advisors reached older blackwomen through relatives, friends, and jobnetworks. Responses from 14 focus groupinterviews found that, for older black women'shealth concerns, women turn to certain womenfor social support. Program planners evaluatedfocus group results and applied them to theSocial Change model to design the healthadvisor training program. The program usedthree network intervention strategies:(1)providing social support (information andreferrals, emotional caring, and tangibleassistance) through interpersonal counselingwith women in their social networks; (2)working as a group by planning andimplementing breast cancer control andprevention activities through communityorganizations to which advisors belong (e.g.,church, civic, and social groups); and (3)establishing the participants as a nonprofit,60Cancercommunity SOS Association to sustain projectinterventions after the funding period. The SOSCommunity Advisory Group and the advisorsdeveloped innovative methods of recruitment,implementation, and follow up. Communityprograms initiated include (1) the Adopt A Sister Program, which assists black women whocannot afford the cost of a mammogram; (2) acommittee on understanding the health caresystem, which helps women negotiateregulations and use of health care providers; (3)a training committee, which recruits and trainsadditional advisors; (4) a support group forblack women with diagnoses of breast cancer;and (5) a speakers bureau, which has produceda 10 minute videotape, brochure, and tee shirtsas community education materials.3 figures,5 tables, 8 references. (CP9300519)092Tailoring Lay Health Worker Interventionsfor Diverse Cultures: Lessons LearnedFrom Vietnamese and LatinaCommunities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Bird, J.A.; Otero Sabogal, R.; Ha,N.; McPhee, S.J.Source:Health Education Quarterly.23(Supplement):S105 S122, December 1996.Abstract: The authors discuss twointerventions in which indigenous lay healthworkers promoted the early detection of breastand cervical cancer in selected Vietnamese andHispanic community members in SanFrancisco, California. The Vietnamese programis called Sue Khoe La Vang! (Health is Gold!);the Hispanic program is called En AccionContra El Cancer (In Action Against Cancer).The interventions were developed andconducted as part of a National Cancer Instituteprogram project, Pathways To Early CancerDetection in Four Ethnic Groups. TheVietnamese project's design includedrecruitment of 10 indigenous lay healthworkers, to be known as neighborhood leaders(NL's), and 30 neighborhood leader assistants(NLA's). Each NL was to conduct 24prevention and early detection educationalevents for women in her community (6 ongeneral prevention, 9 on cervical cancer, and 9on breast cancer). The NLA's recruitedhostesses, recorded the events, andadministered a brief participant survey. By theend of the first year of the project, 9 active and2 inactive NL's and 22 active NLA's had beenrecruited. By the end of the second full year, ofthe 15 NL's who had been trained, 9 were stillactive; 60 NLA's had been recruited, and 24remained active. The program planners foundthat the Vietnamese women were reluctant toinvite participants to share social activities intheir homes, because scheduled socialgatherings in Vietnamese culture tend to occuraround special religious or family events.However, once at the presentations, mostwomen said they were glad they had attended.Cash incentives to hostesses and participantswere effective in recruitment, since most of thetargeted women lived below the poverty line.The Hispanic project included both multimediaand interpersonal interventions. The NLA'swere used as role models in the former, andpeer networkers and promoters in the latter. TheNLA's presented testimonials on local Spanish language media to stimulate and reinforcepositive behavior changes and attitudes aboutearly cancer prevention and detection. Peernetworkers and promoters were expected toparticipate in community events anddisseminate information. The peer networkersand promoters received small incentivestipends. During the first 9 months of theproject, 147 networkers, 68 promoters, and 140role models were recruited.In contrast with theVietnamese NLA's, the Hispanic NLA'saccomplished their work in the context of61Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsdiverse social networks. Family likerelationships developed among and between thestaff and participating women. The authorsconclude that the NLA's were effective changeagents and filled a unique and essential functionas mediators between the professional staff andthe community. 67 references. (CP9700116)093Urban Church and Cancer Control: ASource of Social Influence in MinorityCommunities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Davis, D.T.; Bustamante, A.; Brown,C.P.; Wolde Tsadik, G.; Savage, E.W.; Cheng,X.; Howland, L.Source:Public Health Reports.109(4):500 506, July August 1994.Abstract: Researchers examined the efficiencyof a church based model of social influence inimproving access to, and participation of,underserved minority women in a cervicalcancer control program. To participate in thestudy, researchers selected 24 churches,stratified by faith tradition, from Los Angeles,California. These churches had responded to aletter offering an opportunity to participate inDrew University's cervical cancer controlprogram. Approximately 30 to 150 womenfrom each church were eligible to participate inthe study.Pastoral commitment to the churchrole in the program was secured and a layhealth leader from each congregation wasselected. Clergy from the 24 churches selected atotal of 30 lay health leaders; of these, 97percent participated in two training sessions.The program consisted of two primarycomponents:education and screening. A totalof 1,012 women aged 21 to 89 attendededucational sessions on cervical cancer as partof the program, and lay health leaders targeted44 percent of these women for screeningbecause they either had not had a Papanicolaou(Pap) smear test within the past 2 years or hadnever been screened. Black women were 6.6times more likely than Hispanics to have beenscreened in the past 2 years. Hispanic womenwere 4.2 times more likely than AfricanAmericans never to have had a Pap test or tohave not been tested in 3 or more years. Mostof the women screened were between ages 21and 39. A total of 52 percent of the churchescontinued the cancer prevention campaign for atleast 2 years following the end of the programperiod. 4 tables, 13 references. (CP9500437)094Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleII: Cancer.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 104 pages,1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module II: Cancer is the second in a series ofsix modules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.62CancerThis second module was intended to teachhealth advisors about cancer, and enable themto support women in their community who havebeen diagnosed with cancer. The five unitsprovide an overview of cancer, and details ofbreast, reproductive, lung and colon cancer.The overview discusses how cancer develops,the types of cancer, risk reduction, screening,treatment options, support, and coping. Each ofthe four types of cancer is discussed bydefinition, risk, protection, and treatment. Theimportance of regular screening and healthylifestyle habits is emphasized. The topic ofsupporting women who have been diagnosedwith cancer is also addressed. (HE9800123)63Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsCardiovascular Disease095Community Health Representatives: AValuable Resource for Providing CoronaryHeart Disease Health Education Activitiesfor Native Americans.Form:Journal article.Authors:Cleaver, V.L.; Ratcliff, R.; Rogers, B.Source:Health Education.20(6): 16 31,October/November 1989.Abstract: This historical overview focused onthe lifestyle and coronary heart disease (CHD)health status of Native Americans. Heartdisease is the leading cause of death amongNative Americans. The Community HealthRepresentative (CHR) was a paraprofessionalwithin the Native American community whoprovided health care, health promotion, anddisease prevention services. The communityhealth representative program staff selectedpersons with basic health and medical skills andtrained them as outreach workers in theirrespective communities. The Indian HealthService (IHS) improved the abilities of theseparaprofessionals as health educators to moreeffectively coordinate CHD primary preventionactivities in their respective communities withinOklahoma. A cardiovascular disease riskassessment and education program conducted ata CHR conference had two primary objectives:(1) to favorably influence the CHR's attitudetoward screening and cardiovascular healtheducation, and (2) to help CHR's understandthe long term beneficial implications to suchprograms. Sixty seven CHR's completed alltesting and the educational follow up. CHR'swere categorized by their relative risk fordeveloping CHD. The majority of CHR's had arelatively high risk for CHD for each of the riskfactors.1 table, 18 references. (HE9000232)096Community Health Worker: A Resourcefor Improved Health Care Delivery.Form:Journal article.Authors:Richter, R.W.; Bengen, B.;Alsup, P.A.; Bruun, B.; Kilcoyne, M.M.;Challenor, B.D.Source: American Journal of Public Health.64(11): 1056 1061, November 1974.Abstract: The Community Health WorkerTraining Program represented a majorcomponent of the Harlem (New York) RegionStroke Program, established in 1970 to screenfor, treat, and follow up persons withhypertension, stroke, and related diseases. Thetraining program was designed to create a newentry level health position for inner cityresidents who show potential for contributing tohealth care delivery but who have not be able touse their abilities within a traditional healthstructure. Twenty one trainees were chosen forthe first 6 month training program, whichintegrated didactic and clinical teaching,emphasizing pathogenesis and treatment ofstroke, hypertension, and related diseases.Most of the trainees had completed high school,had reading levels of 10th grade and above, andhad scores of 9th grade or above in problem solving and math skills; most had little previousexposure to the health field; a large percentagehad records of past social, personal, or familyproblems. Fourteen trainees successfullycompleted the 6 month program and wereplaced in health worker positions in specialtiessuch as hypertension unit assistant and stroke65Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsunit follow up workers, social service caseworkassistant, and EEG technician trainee. Theauthors conclude that training programs and jobroles for community health workers need to belegitimized and standardized to overcomepresent fragmentation of programs and toensure career mobility among allied healthworkers. Academic accreditation of trainingprograms and their sponsorship by municipal,regional, or statewide health agencies are twocritical prerequisites for these goals.1 table,1 8 references . (HE940 1 207)097Emergency Department Detection andFollow Up of High Blood Pressure.Form:Journal article.Authors: Bone, L.R.; Mamon, J.; Levine,D.M.; Walrath, J.M.; Nanda, J.; Gurley, H.;Noji, E.K.; Ward, E.Source: American Journal of EmergencyMedicine.7(1): 16 20, January 1989.Abstract:Increasing numbers of people live inmedically underserviced urban areas and usehospital emergency departments (ED's) fortheir medical care. The ED's are reexaminingtheir role to be more responsive to the health care problems of the populations they serve.Ina study conducted at the Adult EmergencyDepartment of The Johns Hopkins Hospitalover a 2 year period, chronic high bloodpressure was used to measure the expanded roleof the ED because of its prevalence and cost topoor urban communities.Community healthworkers provided three services to supplementhealth providers' routine efforts in high bloodpressure detection, treatment, and follow up:(1) blood pressure and pulse measurements andrisk reduction counseling; (2) telephonepreappointment reminders; and (3) recontact ofpatients failing to show for their ED follow upvisits.Researchers indicate that communityhealth workers are a useful resource forenhancing detection, referral, and follow up ofhigh blood pressure. These paraprofessionalscan improve appointment keeping and can beuseful in assisting in screening and counselingfor chronic conditions within the ED.1 figure,21 references. (HE9000013)098Example of a Community Model forComprehensive Stroke Services: TheHarlem Regional Stroke Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Richter, R.W.; Bengen, B.; Bruun,B.; Kilcoyne, M.; Alsup, P.A.; Shafer, S.Q.;Brown, R.H.; Brust, J.; Dorset, V.E.Source:Stroke.5(1): 135 144, January February 1974.Abstract:In response to the particularly highprevalence of stroke and hypertension amongpredominantly black populations, healthprofessionals and community leadersestablished the Harlem Regional StrokeProgram in 1970 to develop a model that mightbe replicated widely and raise awareness of theimportance of broad scale health maintenanceand early detection of hypertension and stroke.The program established comprehensiveservices for the care of those with stroke andprestroke conditions and served as a unifyingforce in regional health care by bringing about aclose working relationship among diversehealth professionals and community members.Program goals included (1) interdisciplinarycollaboration among providers and consumers,(2) creation of a stroke unit, (3) strokeprevention through community outreach andeducation, and (4) community health workertraining program. Stroke program patients wereadmitted primarily through Harlem Hospital'semergency room and, once the diagnosis ofstroke was confirmed, were enrolled in the66Cardiovascular DiseaseStroke Program through the NeurologyConsultation Service. From the time ofadmission and continuing up to 3 years afterdischarge, the patient's neurological andfunctional status was evaluated according to theprotocol. The Community Outreach componentof the Stroke Program, initiated in 1971,implemented a screening program to detect thecommunity's high risk population forhypertension and stroke and a public healtheducation program to increase the community'sacceptance and follow up to early detection andprevention efforts. A registered nurse andseveral full time community health workerstrained specifically for the program manage thecommunity outreach portion of the program.The most important medical principle of theStroke Program has been that to make apermanent impact in the reduction of morbidityand mortality, a program must include carefullyplanned systems of risk factor treatment andlong term follow up. 4 figures,1 table,9 references . (HE97003 1 9)099Guidelines for African American Church Based Health Promotion.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: South CarolinaDepartment of Health and EnvironmentalControl.Source:Columbia, SC, South CarolinaDepartment of Health and EnvironmentalControl, 37 p., n.d.manual was developed to support church effortsto improve the health status of the members oftheir congregations and to provide suggestedstrategies for dealing with specific healthconcerns that affect the African Americanpopulation. Designed to be used by acommittee or team of church members, themanual seeks to (1) increase the community'sawareness of health needs and address possiblesolutions to health problems, (2) identify healthneeds of the congregation and interest inchanging health related behavior, (3) plan acareful strategy to improve the health of thecongregation, (4) measure results, and (5)provide information and assistance inidentifying and using local health resources.The first chapter of the manual gives anoverview of the health status of AfricanAmericans and asserts that efforts withinchurch based programs could help to improvethe health of African Americans.Section1addresses (1) getting organized, (2) gettingstarted, (3) designing the program, (4) startingthe program, and (5) evaluating the program.Section 2 includes a discussion of stroke andhypertension. South Carolina has the nation'shighest death rate from stroke, and the diseaseclaims twice as many lives of AfricanAmericans than any other race. This manualsuggests developing a program targeting strokeprevention in an effort to reduce these statistics.The appendix offers an example of a needs andinterest survey, an example of a programinterest questionnaire, and a detailed list ofmonthly health observances. (HE9700616)Abstract: The Center for Health Promotionand the Office of Minority Health of the SouthCarolina Department of Health andEnvironmental Control developed Guidelinesfor African American Church Based HealthPromotion as the second of a two partpublication on health promotion and the AfricanAmerican church or place of worship. The67Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors100Impact of a Planned Health EducationApproach on the Control of Hypertensionin a High Risk Population.Form:Journal article.Authors:Levine, D.M.; Bone, L.Source:Journal of Human Hypertension.4(4):3 17 321, August 1990.Abstract:Researchers investigated the effectsof disseminating a planned educationalapproach, found to be successful in a definedpatient population, to an East Baltimorecommunity of 80,000 persons with thedemonstrated highest risk of uncontrolledhypertension and premature morbidity andmortality from this risk factor in Maryland.The educational behavioral model used forplanning, intervention, and evaluation isdeveloped from educational and behavioraltherapy and from the concepts of activeparticipation and learning, behavioralreinforcement, self efficacy, and social support.The program consisted of an exit interviewreinforcing and clarifying treatmentrecommendations, a family education andsupport component, and small group sessions toenhance patient activation and motivation. Theprogram was evaluated by a randomized controltrial in 400 patients. The experience,methodology, and approach of this phase wasthen applied to a population level. Thepopulation selected was from a low incomecommunity that was primarily black (95percent). The majority of families were onmedical assistance and had an averageeducational level of 10 years of formalschooling. Within this population, the programfocused on males aged 18 to 49 years. Theprogram, directed and coordinated by aCommunity Provider Task Force, consisted of acombination of targeted screenings, outreach,and follow up strategies to improveidentification of individuals with hypertension,enhance entrance into and encourage continuityof care, decrease drop out rates and bring thosewho had discontinued treatment back into care,and improve adherence to prescribed treatmentand blood pressure control. The participationof community health workers (CHW's) was acentral component of the program. The CHW'swere persons with no previous health trainingbut who were already involved in communityservices. The CHW's received trainingaccording to the American Heart Associationguidelines to provide blood pressure screening,educational counseling, monitoring, follow up,and outreach services. Emphasis was given toindividuals from the hospital emergency room,which provides a disproportionate amount ofhealth care for all adults in East Baltimore.Community surveys have shown that thepercentage of individuals with hypertensionwho were aware of their condition increasedfrom 65 percent in 1978 to 80 percent in 1986,and more than 90 percent of the population hadtheir blood pressure checked yearly. Thepercentage of persons receiving treatmentincreased from 45 percent to 66 percent, andthose persons achieved adequate blood pressurecontrol rose from 32 to 50 percent. The resultsindicated that this planned health educationapproach was successful in significantlyimproving the control of hypertension in a high risk population. The use of CHW's isparticularly relevant for high risk groups, suchas young black males, who are least likely to bein a health care system, be diagnosed, bereceiving treatment, or be under control. Theuse of CHW's to provide both targetedscreenings and enhanced referral and follow upmechanisms is essential to enhancing diagnosis,treatment, and adequate control. The authorssuggest further training of CHW's to addressmore specific risk factors such as obesity,diabetes, alcoholism, smoking, and lack of a68Cardiovascular Diseasereinforcing support structure.1 figure, 5 tables,6 references. (HE9700063)101Improving Hypertension Detection andReferral in an Ambulatory Setting.Form:Journal article.Authors:Gillum, R.F.; Solomon, H.S.; Kranz,P.; Boepple, P.; Creighton, M.Source: Archives of Internal Medicine.138(5):700 703,May 1978.Abstract:Investigators evaluated the extent towhich patient appointment keeping for follow up care can be improved by a paraprofessionalhealth aide, whether the aide's efforts canimprove hypertension detection in ambulatorysettings within an urban teaching hospital, and(3) whether such an intervention is costeffective. They also present the yield oftreatable hypertension, based on initial diastolicblood pressure. A paraprofessional aideworking in ambulatory clinics of an urbanteaching hospital in Boston encouraged nursesto take and record patients' blood pressures andthen contacted patients who had elevated bloodpressures who were not referred for treatmentby clinic staff or who did not return for followup. Blood pressure recording by clinic staffincreased during the intervention from 54percent to 68 percent of patients. Appointmentkeeping increased with intervention from 13 to73 percent of those eligible for referral. Theyield of hypertensive patients initiatingtreatment management increased from a controllevel of 7 to 22 percent of total patients eligiblefor referral. The authors conclude that arelatively inexpensive and easy opportunity forscreening large numbers of people inambulatory clinics is being neglected. A healthaide can be effective in improving detection andreferral of hypertensive patients at low cost.3 figures,1 table, 12 references. (HE9700073)102Improving Referral Compliance AfterPublic Cholesterol Screening.Form:Journal article.Authors: Maiman, L.A.; Hildreth, N.G.;Cox, C; Greenland, P.Source: American Journal of Public Health.82(6):804 809, June 1992.Abstract:Researchers examined whetherhealth professional counselors at cholesterolscreening and follow up interventions affectcompliance with referral for retesting anddiagnosis.Researchers also assessed thecontributions of sociodemographiccharacteristics, coronary heart disease riskfactors, and health motivations. At thescreening, health professionals and laycommunicators referred participants meetingage specific criteria for moderate or high riskcholesterol levels to a physician for retestingand diagnosis.Initially, each participantreceived counseling from a health professionalor lay communicator; all individuals without aregular source of medical care received a list ofprimary care physicians who were acceptingnew patients. After each screening shift,researchers randomly assigned 2,109participants to a coupon offer group, referralreminder letter group, or control group. Beforereceiving their test result, each participantcompleted a self administered questionnaire atscreening. Five months later, researchersconducted telephone interviews with 1,975participants. The questionnaire and interviewinquired about general health information,cholesterol specific items, and the physicianvisit.Results showed that physician visit ratesyielded no professional or lay differences. Forpatients with no medical history, the behavioralinterventions were effective compared withcontrols (the coupon yielded 60.7 percent andthe reminder letter yielded 57.7 percent69Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsresponses versus control response of 46.1percent). With professional counseling, only thecoupon was effective; for lay counseling, bothcoupon and reminder yielded higher visit rates.When adjustments were made forsociodemographics, heart disease risk factors,and health perceptions, the intervention effectsremained. The results suggest that theinfluence of the behavioral interventionsdepends on cholesterol history andcommunicator type. For those with newlyidentified cholesterol elevations, both types offollow up yielded better physician visit ratesthan no follow up. 4 tables, 32 references.(HE9201240)103Narrowing the Gap in Health Status ofMinority Populations: A Community Academic Medical Center Partnership.Form:Journal article.Authors: Levine, D.M.; Becker, D.M.;Bone, L.R.Source: American Journal of PreventiveMedicine.8(5):3 19 323, September October1992.Abstract: Program developers used six stepsto develop a joint, community based,coordinated program between a high riskAfrican American population in Baltimore,Maryland and Johns Hopkins UniversityMedical Institutions. The steps were (1)selecting a target minority population; (2)developing a coordinated community andmedical care system task force to direct theprogram; (3) assessing current patterns ofpreventable or controllable premature morbidityand mortality; (4) selecting specific health andbehavioral priorities to address and goals toachieve; (5) designing intervention andevaluation methods, including interventionstrategies that provide training and skillbuilding for the population served; and (6)planning for long term effectiveness andsustainability based on the community providercollaboration model. The program was basedon a diagnostic, intervention, and evaluationmodel to influence behavioral change andenhance health status. There were three phasesof the program: initial development (1974 to1979), the second phase (1979 to 1987), and thethird phase (1987 and beyond). The initialphase consisted of a highly successful patient based intervention focusing on the care andcontrol of hypertensive vascular disease in thecommunity. This experience was thendisseminated into a community based publichealth program for the second phase. A keyfeature of the second phase was the training ofcommunity residents to provide outreach,linkage, and monitoring services, includingscreening and counseling for high bloodpressure, weight control, and cessation ofsmoking and excessive alcohol consumption.Community health workers significantlyimproved identification and control ofhypertension in the population; positive effectsof the workers were enhanced linkage,continuity of care, and control of hypertension.The third phase of the program consisted of achurch based, multiple risk factor programentitled "Heart, Body and Soul," part of whichfocused specifically on smoking cessation.Church ministers and members were trained tolead small groups and to administer churchwideactivities and health fairs. This community based program has demonstrated significanteffects in decreasing morbidity and mortalityand in enhancing the health status of a high riskurban African American population.(HE9300355)70Cardiovascular Disease104Role of Community Volunteers in HealthInterventions: A Hypertension Screeningand Follow Up Program.Form:Journal Article.Authors: Cooke, C.J.; Meyers, A.Source: American Journal of Public Health.73(2): 193 194, February 1983.Abstract: The use of community volunteers inhealth screening programs was evaluated in ahypertension screening and follow up program.Volunteers from a resident health committee inan apartment complex community carried outdoor to door blood pressure screening ofresidents. The results of that screening werecompared with those from a community wherea resident health committee conducted central site screenings and with those of a communitywhere nonresident researchers staffed a centralscreening site. Door to door screening bycommunity volunteers was significantly moreeffective than the two central site screeningmethods, which did not differ from each other.Follow up measures increased the number ofhypertensive persons who reported seekingtreatment by 100 percent. The failure to finddifferences between the two central siteprograms suggests that community organizationdid not contribute to screening effectiveness. Aprevious study that employed resident door to door screeners without prior communityorganizing screened fewer residents, suggestingan interaction between community organizationand door to door screening.3 references.(HE8300154)105Role of Parents and Older Peers in School Based Cardiovascular PreventionPrograms:Implications for ProgramDevelopment.Form:Journal article.Authors: Cohen, R.Y.; Felix, M.;Brownell, K.D.Source:Health Education Quarterly.16(2):245 253, Summer 1989.Abstract: The authors compared theeffectiveness of peer led interventions fornutrition, blood pressure education, andsmoking prevention with interventions led byclassroom teachers. Before implementation ofthe intervention programs, students in grades 5 8 completed a comprehensive health survey.Their parents completed a telephone survey ofthe same information; data came from 1,051households. The survey instruments askedabout the children's health habits, such assmoking, exercise, dieting, and fast foodconsumption, and about family discussions ofhealth related topics. The authors recruited the76 older peer leaders from the local highschool, where a peer counseling program wasalready in place. All peer counselorsparticipated in a 4 day training during thesummer to learn general helping skills and thecurriculum they would be teaching. Four orfive older peer leaders each taught a class ofapproximately 30 students.Students in grade 5participated in the nutrition program (233),those in grade 6 participated in the bloodpressure program (325), and students in grade 7participated in the smoking prevention program(328). Each of the peer led interventionsconsisted of four 45 minute classroom sessionsand focused on the influence of parents as rolemodels. Activities included homeworkassignments that parents and childrencompleted together, discussions by the children71Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsabout their parents' behavior, and risk factorinformation mailed to the parents.Students inthe teacher led intervention received identicalinformation, although without the small groupdiscussions and without the additional focus onparents. Analysis of preintervention andpostintervention survey data indicated that bothinterventions successfully increasedparticipants' behavior toward nutrition andblood pressure (measured1 year after theinterventions). The parent child survey showedreasonable agreement between parents andchildren for reports of the child's exercise, diet,and fast food consumption, but pooreragreement for smoking and perceptions offamily interaction. The authors conclude thatthe findings provide preliminary evidence thatolder peer led programs for the adoption ofhealthy behaviors can be effective.1 table,20 references. (SA9600401)106Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleIII: Heart Disease and Stroke.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 94 pages, 1997.objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This module introduces health advisors to thetopics in four units. Unit1 gives anintroduction to heart disease, how the heartworks, the symptoms of heart disease, anddiagnosing heart disease. Unit 2 discussesprotecting against heart disease by reducing therisk of heart disease, lowering the risk of highblood pressure, cholesterol, smoking, andphysical activity. Coronary artery disease andheart attack is covered in Unit 3, including thetopics of coronary artery disease, what a heartattack is, how to recognize a heart attack, whatto do when you think you are having a heartattack, and support and coping. Unit 4discusses the topic of stroke, including what astroke is, minimizing risk factors for strokes,what happens at the hospital, and recovery aftera stroke. A list of recommended resources isprovided at the end of the module.(HE9800124)Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module III:Heart Disease and Stroke is one ofa series of six modules designed for trainers ofHealth Advisors. The adaptable curriculum ineach module can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,72Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsDiabetes107Community Based, Culturally SensitiveEducation and Group SupportIntervention for Mexican Americans WithNIDDM: A Pilot Study of Efficacy.Form:Journal article.Authors: Brown, S.A.; Hanis, C.L.Source:Diabetes Educator.21(3):203 210,May June 1995.Abstract:Researchers conducted a pilot study,the Rio Grande Valley Diabetes EducationStudy, to determine the feasibility of providinga diabetes patient education and group supportintervention directed by a Mexican Americanclinical nurse specialist, dietitian, andcommunity worker. Five persons with diabeteswere selected from a longitudinal study andasked to participate in the intervention. Theywere over age 35 years, had noninsulindependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), hadtaken insulin for at least1 year in the past, andwere willing to participate in the 9 weekintervention. Each participant identified afamily member or close friend who wouldparticipate in the sessions as a support person.The weekly 2 hour educational sessionsincluded instruction on nutrition, self blood glucose monitoring, exercise, and other diabetesself management topics. Group discussion wasaided by the use of Spanish languagevideotapes developed for a Mexicancommunity. Other activities included visiting alocal grocery store to learn to read and interpretfood labels, food demonstrations based onMexican American food preferences, andsharing of healthy recipes. The community layworker led a support group session held afterthe completion of the educational portion of theprogram. Data on demographic and outcomevariables were collected at baseline, andoutcome data were collected 3 months after theprogram ended. Relevant outcome variablesincluded knowledge of diabetes, healthbehaviors, weight, and indexes of metaboliccontrol such as fasting blood sugar andglycosylated hemoglobin. Researchersconducted comparisons of preintervention andpostintervention measures, using the Wilcoxinsigned rank test. For all five participants,statistically significant improvements occurredin glycosylated hemoglobin levels, fastingblood sugar levels, and knowledge of diabetesself management.Researchers advised that,because of the small sample size and otherlimitations, these data must be interpretedcautiously. However, researchers concluded thatthe study demonstrated the feasibility ofproviding an acceptable intervention in thisMexican American community. 4 tables,29 references. (HE9600778)108Training Outreach Workers to ServeAmerican Indian Elders With VisualImpairment and Diabetes.Form:Journal article.Author:Orr, A.L.Source:Journal of Visual Impairment andBlindness.87(9):336 340, November 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the training ofoutreach workers to serve American Indianelders with visual impairment and diabetes.The incidence of blindness and visualimpairment resulting from diabetic retinopathyis higher among American Indians than in theoverall population. Additionally, the number73Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsand life expectancy of American Indian eldershave increased consistently over the past 40years, so that a larger portion of this populationare living many more years as blind or visuallyimpaired persons. These statistics, coupledwith the data that indicate American Indianswith disabilities are substantiallyunderrepresented in state and federalrehabilitation service systems, shows the needfor an innovative service delivery model. In aneffort to improve access to services, theAmerican Foundation for the Blind (AFB)proposed to train indigenous communityoutreach workers in the basics of independentliving skills. Through funding from theAdministration on Aging and in cooperationwith the Indian Health Service (IHS), AFBdeveloped and implemented a two phaseindependent living skills training projectentitled, A Training Model to TeachCommunity Outreach Workers to Train ElderlyBlind and Visually Impaired American IndiansIndependent Living Skills: Focus on FamilyRehabilitation. The project was conductedfrom 1987 to 1990 and was guided by anational advisory committee. During Phase I ofthe project, staff (1) developed a culturallysensitive model curriculum on aging and visionloss and training in independent living skills,(2) conducted 7 week sessions that trained acore of 250 community health representatives(CHR's), and (3) evaluated the training throughfollow up surveys and visits to reservations.Phase II focused on preparing IHS to continueto use the model curriculum to train additionalCHR's and to incorporate a core component ofthe curriculum into their basic training. TheCHR's who specialized in work with the elderlyor who had many elderly clients in theircaseloads were given priority for training.Training sessions were located off thereservations in conference hotels and wereconducted by AFB staff and local experts in thefield of blindness. To determine theeffectiveness of the training, the AFB staffdesigned information gathering and assessmentinstruments. As a result of the project, trainingin independent living skills in the home hasenhanced care to increase the maximum level ofindependent and interdependent functioning ofolder visually impaired American Indians.2 tables, 17 references. (HE9700613)109Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleIV:Diabetes.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 65 pages, 1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module IV:Diabetes is one of a series of sixmodules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This module covers diabetes and supportingwomen with diabetes for health advisors. Unit1 introduces diabetes and gives the definition,types of diabetes, and screening and diagnosismethods. Unit 2 discusses managing diabetesthrough the topics of monitoring blood sugar,74Diabetescontrolling blood sugar with insulin, healthyeating, exercise for healthy living, oralmedication, and coping with diabetes.Unit 3discusses short and long term complications ofdiabetes and sick day management. A list ofrecommended resources is provided at the endof the module. (HE9800125)75Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsNutrition110Arizona Education Program DevelopsIndigenous Health Manpower.Form:Journal article.Authors:Eichelberger, C.I.; White, M.;Braun, H.J.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation. 71(2):143 146, August 1977.student in competency based instructionalmaterials (modules). Aides enrolled on avoluntary basis.Materials, the delivery system,staff development and use, and programadministration and student performance wasevaluated by Central Arizona College, theArizona Department of Health Services, and anoutside contractor. 2 tables, 9 references.(HE9700068)Abstract:Health professionals in Arizonadescribe the Dietetic Education Program, a stateprogram that aimed to provide optimal nutritionstatus in all communities by trainingcommunity workers in public health nutrition.Although a demonstration project in 1970resulted in the employment of 110 communitynutrition/health workers throughout Arizona,the recent expansion of nutritional servicesmeant a corresponding increase in staffingneeds in rural areas and Indian reservations. Toaddress this issue, a junior college agreed toprovide academic training for these workers inconjunction with the Arizona Bureau ofNutrition Services. The program, the pilotphase of which began in January 1976 with 27workers, was designed to achieve the followingobjectives within a 5 year period:(1) 100workers will achieve greater proficiency, jobsatisfaction, and job mobility, (2) 50 workerswill be trained for level II Community Nutritionpositions, (3) 25 workers will be trained foradvanced nutrition positions and formembership in the American DieteticAssociation, (4) 5 workers will be prepared toqualify for admission to a B.S. degree programin nutrition, and (5) a career ladder position willbe designed for community nutrition personnel.The personalized system of instruction allowedpersonal contact between the instructor and the111Influence of a Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) on Infant Nutrition inEast Harlem.Form:Journal article.Authors: Bowering, J.; Lowenberg, R.L.;Morrison, M.A.; Parker, S.L.; Tirado, N.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation. 72(4):392 397, April 1978.Abstract: The effectiveness of nutrition aidework with physicians, nurses, and nutritionistsin the Expanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) in East Harlem, New York,was assessed in a study of infants from low income families attending a hospital's well baby clinic. The evaluation focused on threeareas on which the aides' teaching rolescentered: milk intake, variety of foodsconsumed, and anemia risk. The nutritionistobtained information on the infant's age inmonths when whole milk became part of thediet. From the information on a 24 hour dietaryrecall, taken from homemakers by aides, avariety score was computed on the basis ofwhether a particular food category wasreported. Assessment of an individual infant'sanemia risk was based on hemoglobinmeasurements from several clinic visits. A77Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorscontrol group of infants received no aide visits.Findings revealed that (1) a trend towarddelaying the introduction of whole milk toinfants in favor of formula was consistentlyobserved in the study group; (2) more foodcategories were mentioned on recall by mothersof study group infants; and (3) 70 percent ofstudy group infants were at low risk of anemia,as compared to 56 percent of control groupinfants.Findings demonstrate the benefits ofreinforcing clinical well baby care with one to one contact and advice by aides working inpeople's homes.13 references. (HE7900046)112Weight Management Practices of BlackParaprofessional Women.and eating behaviors.Researchers alsodeveloped four data collection instruments: (1)a nutrition knowledge instrument that included25 true/false statements; (2) a dietary intakeinstrument that listed 39 food groupings forwhich respondents reported frequency ofconsumption; (3) an exercise practicesinstrument consisting of four statements scoredon a 5 point scale; and (4) an eating behaviorsinstrument consisting of nine statements scoredon a 5 point scale. The treatment group hadsignificantly better dietary intake, nutritionknowledge, exercise practices, eating behaviors,weight, body mass index, and fewer sick leavehours used.Researchers noted no significantimprovements for the control group.1 table,4 references. (HE9200281)Form:Journal article.Authors: Reames, B.; Burnett, M.F.Source:Journal of the American DieteticAssociation.9 1(7): 84 1 843, July 1991.Abstract:Researchers studied the effect ofparticipation in a weight control workshop byblack female paraprofessionals employed asExpanded Food and Nutrition EducationProgram (EFNEP) nutrition aides on selectedindexes, including dietary intake, nutritionknowledge, exercise practices, eating behaviors,anthropometric measurements, and sick leavehours used. Approximately 19 black urbannutrition aides participated in the HealthyWeight Workshop, during which they receivedweight control information for personal andEFNEP participant use.Researchers recruited asecond group of1 8 black urban nutrition aidesto participate as the control group. Researcherscollected data from both groups1 week before,1 week after, and 6 months after the workshop.Researchers developed a Healthy WeightWorkshop consisting of a series of six weightcontrol sessions emphasizing lifestyle changesin diet (1,200 Kcal food group plan), exercise,78Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsTobacco Control113Heart, Body, and Soul: Impact of Church Based Smoking Cessation Interventions onReadiness to Quit.Form:Journal article.Authors: Voorhees, C.C.; Stillman, F.A.;Swank, R.T.; Heagerty, P.J.; Levine, D.M.;Becker, D.M.Source:Preventive Medicine. 25(3):277 285,May June 1996.Abstract:Researchers determined the effect ofan intensive, spiritually based churchintervention on smoking behavior stages,compared with a minimal self help strategy alsoadministered in churches. The catchment areaof the study represented 2 1 contiguous censustracts constituting East Baltimore andconsisting of 71,291 residents. Of the 130churches in the catchment area, researchersinvited 23 to participate in the study. Theyrandomly assigned churches to receive either anintensive, environmentally oriented, culturallyspecific intervention or an individual self helpintervention.Researchers obtained data onsmoking status and stage of readiness from thecongregation members at church health fairsheld before and1 year after initiation of theinterventions.Multiple logistic regressionresults, controlling for intrachurch correlationand demographic and baseline smokingcharacteristics, showed that the multimodalcultural intervention group was more likely tomake positive progress along the stages ofchange continuum, compared with the self helpintervention group. Church denomination andintervention status interacted in the multivariatemodel, with Baptists in the intensiveintervention being three times more likely tomake progress than all the other denominationgroups. The researchers conclude that themultimodal, culturally relevant intervention wasmore likely than a self help intervention topositively influence smoking behavior.2 figures, 4 tables, 25 references. (HE9600839)79Issues of AgingQuality of Life114Friendly Visitor Program:Its Impact onthe Social and Mental Functioning of theElderly.Form:Journal article.Author: Mulligan, M.A.Source:Issues in Mental Health Nursing.1:1 11, Spring 1978.Abstract: Over a 6 month period during 1971,the author evaluated the effect of the FriendlyVisitor Program on behavior patterns regardinggrooming and apartment upkeep (markers forsocial adjustment) of a small, nonrandomsample of isolated elderly people living on theUpper West Side of New York City. TheFriendly Visitor program sought to reconnectthe participants to others, give some indicationof an awareness of their presence in thecommunity, and show concern for their well being.Six months after the visiting ended, theauthors followed up to determine if there wasany evidence of delayed deterioration in thosereceiving regular visiting as compared withthose who were not visited regularly. Thesample, consisting of 24 persons over age 64years (median age 77.5 years), was divided intoexperimental and control groups.Participantsin the experimental group received hour longstructured visits by one of five pairs of trainedvolunteer visitors every 2 weeks for 6 months.The same pair of visitors visited participants inthe control group once in the beginning of thestudy and once at the end. An interviewschedule, designed to assess the greetingbehavior, grooming, apartment upkeep,cognitive awareness, and mental state of thevisitee, was part of each visit. After each of the12 visits to the experimental group and 2 to thecontrol group, the visitors gathered data on theappropriateness of the behavior of the visitees.Only on the first and last visits, when a pretestand posttest were administered, was any writingdone in the presence of the visitees. Resultsshow that none of the experimental group wereeither institutionalized or deceased upon followup, while in the control group, three participantswere in nursing homes and one was deceased.During the follow up visit, the friendly visitorobserved a significant improvement in thenumber of social contacts by the participants inthe experimental group. There was steadyimprovement in grooming and apartmentupkeep over the entire period for theexperimental group; however, at the follow upvisit, there was a decrease in both grooming andapartment upkeep.It seemed that thetermination of the program deprived the visiteesof a motivating factor for caring about theirappearance and living quarters. The findingsshowed that the mental state of theexperimental group improved over the course ofthe visiting. The control group showed littlechange in apartment upkeep and a markednegative change in grooming. The researchersconclude that friendly visitor programs can bevital links between the isolated aged andcommunity services available for their physical,mental, and social welfare. Also, with propertraining for the friendly visitors, the programcan become a crisis prevention measure and analternative to institutionalization.20 references. (HE9700346)81Issues of Aging115Natural Helpers: Tools for Working Withthe Chronically Mentally 111 Elderly.Form:Journal article.Author: Quam, J.K.Source:Gerontologist.December 1984.24(6):564 567,Abstract: A professor at the School of SocialWork at the University of Minnesota presentsinformation about Sentinel House, program thatserved the needs of elderly patients withchronic schizophrenia and built on the conceptof natural helping networks.In 1982, theDepartment of Public Welfare funded servicesto the chronically mentally ill persons living inboard and lodging facilities.Sentinel Househad as its key social support component naturalhelpers (i.e., friends, other residents, familymembers, neighbors, and anyone who served aspart of an enduring support system and acted asa buffer against psychological problems).Sentinel House offered a combination of in house services and linkage to existingcommunity supports for 17 chronicallymentally ill older adults aged 40 to 80 years.The program focused specifically on (1)independent living skills, (2) building ofpersonal support through natural and devisednetworks, and (3) use of existing communityresources and natural helpers. Networkbuilding was also carried out at the communitylevel. Program ideas included (1) continuationof informal activities that already existed withinthe facility, (2) more formalized roles fornatural leaders and opportunity for residentinvolvement, (3) more formalized roles fornatural support systems outside the facility, (4)greater emphasis on natural supports asopposed to formalized services, (5) more staffactivities gradually shifting to residents, (6)greater emphasis on activities that meetresidents' developmental needs, and (7)consideration of pets as natural helpers. Theresearcher conclude that programs for theelderly that seek to encourage a realityorientation and maintain relationships shouldconsider the importance of using naturalhelping systems as therapeutic tools.14 references. (HE9700081)116Nutrition and Social Service Program forOlder People: An Urban Model.Form:Journal article.Authors: Gemple, N.; Hogue, J.Source: American Journal of ClinicalNutrition.26(10): 1098 1 105, October 1973.Abstract: The authors describe a trial model ofa nutrition and social services program for olderpeople. One of the first steps for the programplanners is to delineate the proposed servicearea and begin the task of surveying the needsof the older people in the area. From suchanalysis of needs, program planners canformulate the objectives that will provide thenecessary direction and guidance for theoperation of the program and provide the basisfor program evaluation. The project shouldselect a facility that is accessible and acceptableto the older persons in the area and from whichthe following activities and services could beprovided:(1) daily meals containing not lessthan one third of the recommended dietaryallowance of the nutrients as described by theNational Research Council; (2) counseling inthe areas of health, nutrition, and social welfare;(3) information and referral services; (4)recreation activities and other opportunities forsocial involvement; (5) outreach activities toidentify isolated and other potential consumers;and (6) transportation and escort services tomeal settings and other needed social services.The authors describe the qualifications andduties of the basic core staff needed to operate a82Quality of Lifenutrition and related service program.Staffmust include (1) project director, (2) socialworker, (3) secretary/bookkeeper, (4) dietaryconsultant, (5) cook, (6) dishwasher/janitor, (7)outreach workers, (8) volunteers, and (9)supplementary staff from other relevant publicand private agencies.5 references.(HE9700304)83Issues of AgingOlder Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populations117Black Aged as Good Neighbors: AnExperiment in Volunteer Service.Form:Journal article.Author:Faulkner, A.O.Source:Gerontologist.December 1975.15(6):554 559,Abstract: Researchers investigated theeffectiveness of enlisting 200 elderly blackpersons to serve as volunteers in theircommunities. The project was conceived as anattempt to simulate the service that wouldordinarily be given at a typical senior center.The population consisted of approximately 200elderly black individuals in randomly selectedhouseholds. The program service staff wasprofessional and included a director and sixfamily consultants. The family consultantswere community residents who understood theirfellow residents and their community'sproblems. Their education varied from highschool graduate to1 year of college; they werefrom 30 to 60 years old. The volunteers wereasked to run errands, make telephone calls,write a letter or read to persons who could not,do light housekeeping chores for the ill, andoffer comfort, support, and solace to the sickand the bereaved. The environment of thecrime ridden neighborhood, however, provokedsecurity concerns that negated attempts todeploy the elderly volunteers as goodneighborly participants in one to one contact.Additionally, the research design did notprovide for enough outside or additionalprofessional training and daily support for theparaprofessional family consultants.Researchers conclude that any attempt toinstitute a good neighbor to good neighborpattern of volunteer service must include givingvolunteers sufficient training and emotionalsupport from experienced professional socialworkers so that an effective volunteer programcan be created within a community.19 references. (HE9700347)118Enhancement of Individual andCommunity Competence: The Older Adultas Community Worker.Form:Journal article.Authors:Gatz, M.; Barbarin, O.A.; Tyler, F.B.;Mitchell, R.E.; Moran, J. A.; Wirzbicki, P.J.;Crawford, J.; Engelman, A.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.10(3):291 303, 1982.Abstract:In a 2 year primary preventionprogram, employed older adults served asindigenous community educators of other olderadults residing in the community. The programgoal was to increase adaptive strengths of boththe workers and the residents along twodimensions:their self perceived competence asindividuals and their level of competence withinthe community. The project was conducted in20 towns: 10 each of 2 suburban mental healthcachement areas. Area A was 67.6 percentblack and area B was 90.5 percent white.Median income in both areas was $9,000. Bothareas were characterized by high residentmobility. Twenty two older people wereemployed as community workers (10 whites, 11blacks, and1 Hispanic; 18 females and 4males). They had contact with three categoriesof residents:those selected at random, olderadults referred to workers for particularproblems, and residents selected for contact by85Issues of Agingthe workers. An evaluation focused on subsetsof 78 residents who completed pre and post individual competence measures. Individualcompetence measures assessed included self efficacy or locus of control, interpersonal trust,problem solving abilities, and life satisfaction.A survey of community residents assessedattitudes, knowledge, and self reportedbehavior. A control group of 30 residentscompleted only a posttest that asked whetherthe residents knew about various communityservices and how they would solve hypotheticalproblems. At the same time, communityworkers provided residents with a resourcedirectory of agencies and services and madethemselves available to help with personal orcommunity problems. Of the problemsreported to the community workers, 76.7percent were related to services, such astransportation, housing, clothing, food stamps,and Medicaid.Results showed that the workersand residents increased their knowledge and useof community services as a result of theprogram.2 tables, 21 references.(HE9700093)119Experiences in Systematic Training in aRural Program for Elderly Mississippians.Form:Journal article.Author: Williams, L.Source: American Journal of ClinicalNutrition.26(10): 1 138 1 142, October 1973.Abstract: A community worker discusses theexperiences encountered in developing atraining program for elderly persons in theMississippi Delta. The original objective of theprogram was to develop an agency to plan,organize, and operate a nutritional researchprogram and demonstration for the aging poorin the area. While nutrition proved to be animportant service to these individuals, it soonbecame clear that many other services would beneeded before the nutrition service would haveany effect on the lives of the individuals beingserved by the agency. Soon after the programbegan, the agency began providing arts andcrafts programs as well as other social andrecreational opportunities. During the finalyear of operation of the agency, the directorsdeveloped a program that centered around peereducation activities led by many of the elderlyprogram participants. The program leadersselected older individuals who understood theprinciples of nutrition and encouraged them toteach good nutrition habits to other programparticipants.In all, 20 individuals in theprogram volunteered to become communitynutrition aides. These individuals visited otherswho were not involved in the program, goinginto their homes and looking for the signs ofnutritional problems. Many aides becameinvolved in other activities in the communityand in the home, and their overall outlook onlife was improved. A test given by staff toprogram participants showed that the nutritionknowledge of participants improved. Theprogram demonstrated the crucial importance ofproviding comprehensive services to the agedindividual. (HE9700320)120Guidelines for Older Person Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sainer, J.; Zander, M.Source:Gerontologist.11(3, Part l):201 204,Autumn 1971.Abstract: The authors discuss the initialguidelines that emerged from Project SERVE, aprogram of volunteer service by older personslocated on Staten Island, New York. ProjectSERVE was designed to test the effectivenessof group methods in recruiting, placing,training, and retaining older persons as86Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsvolunteers providing service in communityagencies. About 640 volunteers were recruited,placed, and trained; more than 70 percent arestill active in the program 3 years after programinception in 1967.Results of the SERVEprogram indicated that volunteer programs byolder persons will be most successful when theprogram is structured to provide features thatare familiar and meaningful to the social classacclimation and experiences of the potentialvolunteer, and least successful when it is not.Guidelines to attract and retain volunteersinclude (1) program staff must help the agencydevelop opportunities that are most appropriateto the experience and background of thevolunteers being recruited; (2) the groupapproach is especially valuable for oldervolunteers; (3) the volunteer should be offered avariety of placement choices; (4) program staffgives personalized attention to each volunteer;(5) the project should make efforts to gainpublic recognition from the broadercommunity; (6) volunteer transportation isessential to recruitment, placement, andretention; and (7) no potential volunteer shouldbe turned away because of a lack of social orjob skills. (HE9700348)121Health Education as a Basis for SocialSupport.Form:Journal article.Authors:Campbell, R.; Chenoweth, B.Source:Gerontologist.21(6):619 627,December 1981.Abstract: The authors describe the PeerSupport System, an effort to complementmedical programs with psychosocial support forthe elderly and their families. The project wasconducted in four different sites:(1) the TurnerGeriatric Clinic at the University of MichiganHospital (the ongoing site), (2) a seniornutrition site, (3) a nursing home, and (4) acommunity hospital in a rural area. Theobjectives of the project were to involve olderpeople in the provision of mental healthservices, including health education, incoordination with existing community agencies.The program consisted of recruiting andtraining peer counselors and conductingmonthly health education workshops. The peercounselors were recruited in their owncommunities and trained at the site where theywould work. Eighteen hours of training werescheduled and conducted by a social workerand psychiatric nurse.Training sessions werefollowed by meetings twice a month.Overalltraining goals were (1) to teach peer counselorshow to conduct workshops that would best meetthe needs of the people at their site, (2) todevelop awareness in peer counselors of theirown special skills and interests, and (3) toacquaint the peer counselors with each other,thereby establishing a sense of identity as a peercounselor group. The health focusedworkshops were initiated first since it wasbelieved they would attract a broad audience ofolder adults. Small discussion groups werefacilitated within the large workshop when thepeer counselors thought the issues addressedappeared to warrant further exploration.Participants expressing the need for individualattention were contacted by peer counselors andstaff.Finally, the information generated in theworkshops was compiled and distributed to aneven wider audience of all ages.Staff included1 part time social worker,1 full timepsychiatric nurse,1 part time program assistant,and 17 graduate students working in variouscapacities during the 2 year period. To monitorthe effectiveness of the program, evaluationswere performed among workshop participantsand among the peer counselors. During a2 year period, 48 peer counselors developedprograms for 2,500 people, accounting for87Issues of Aging5,000 participant contacts.1 table,25 references. (HE9700614)122Impact of Race on Volunteer HelpingRelationships Among the Elderly.Form:Journal article.Authors: Morrow Howell, N.; Lott, L.;Ozawa, M.Source:Social Work.35(5):395 402,September 1990.Abstract:Researchers sought to betterunderstand volunteer behavior by exploringhow race influences relationships betweenvolunteers and the people they serve. Datasources included 83 volunteers in thecommunity self help program, 246 clients in thesame community self help program, and 1agency staff member. Trained interviewersconducted in home interviews with thevolunteers and their clients from January1through July 31, 1985. An agency staff memberprovided information about the effectiveness ofthe volunteers from a professional perspective.The researchers obtained descriptions of thevolunteers' age, education, income, physicalfunctioning, health, mental health, and socialsupport to determine whether differencesexisted in personal characteristics betweenblack and white volunteers.Staff ratedvolunteers' overall effectiveness based onhelpfulness, attendance, perception of training,time spent in volunteer activities with clients,and ratings of effectiveness by professionalstaff. Three variables measured clientevaluation of volunteer behavior:level oftelephone contact, level of in person contact,and ratings of helpfulness. The analysisrevealed that race alone does not affectvolunteer helping behavior; black and whiteolder adults perform similarly in volunteer roleson measures of time committed to service andsatisfaction levels of clients. However, theracial composition of the dyad does havesignificant effects on the helping relationship;higher levels of contact and client satisfactionwere reported when the volunteer and the clientare of the same race.Researchers conclude thattraining and support are necessary to overcomeproblems associated with racial differencesbetween volunteers and their clients.5 tables,35 references. (HE9700085)123Is Volunteering a Substitute for Role Lossin Old Age? An Empirical Test of ActivityTheory.Form:Journal article.Author: Chambre, S.M.Source:Gerontologist.24(3) :292 298, June1984.Abstract: An educator sought to determinewhether volunteering is used as a substitute forrole loss in old age by examining whetherindividuals who lack ties to work and to familytend to volunteer more frequently and to devotemore time to volunteering than do thosemaintaining such involvement. Two measuresof volunteering were used:(1) volunteerparticipation, as determined by responses from4,339 participants who had been asked whetherthey had performed any unpaid volunteer workbetween April 1973 and April 1974, and (2)commitment of volunteers, which was based ona score assigned to individuals in response tothe frequency and total number of hours theyhad volunteered in the past year. Discussions ofthe importance of volunteering for the elderlyreflect the influence of activity theory, whichsuggests that volunteering is a work substitute;study findings, however, suggest that othersocial characteristics such as socioeconomicstatus and sex have a greater influence onvolunteer patterns of the elderly. The educator88Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsconcludes that an understanding of the level ofvolunteer activity among the elderly cannot beexplained by activity theory, and may be betteraddressed by applying continuity theory.7 tables, 22 references. (HE9700082)124Natural Helping Among Older Adults.Form:Journal article.Author: Goodman, C.C.Source:Gerontologist.24(2): 138 143, April1984.Abstract: A professor of social work at theUniversity of Southern California reports on asurvey of neighbors in retirement housing thatsought to identify distinguishing characteristicsand natural helping styles of persons within adynamic informal support system. The studyasked what demographic, social, health, andpersonality characteristics were related to socialexchange types:high helpers, mutual helpers,and isolated persons in the neighborhood whoneither give nor take actively with neighbors. Asample of 67 elderly persons was drawnrandomly to represent residents of twopurposively selected, age segregated housingdevelopments within a single middle incomecommunity. The 2 hour interviews containedopen ended questions to elicit acts of givingand taking for specific neighbors.Demographic characteristics such as age, sex,marital status, ethnicity, religious affiliation,education, and previous occupation weremeasured. Findings confirm a typology ofthree neighborhood exchange types:(1) highhelpers, who exhibit a quasiprofessional style ofhelping without reciprocation; (2) mutualhelpers, who show an interdependent style ofgive and take; and (3) neighborhood isolatedpeople, whose social ties and help sources areprimarily located outside the neighborhood.The social exchange types identified in thisstudy offer a foundation on which to buildprogram models that can more closely addresscommunity weaknesses and capitalize oncommunity strengths.1 figure,1 table,21 references. (HE9700083)125Older Rural Natural Helpers: Gender andSite Differences in the Helping Process.Form:Journal article.Author:Patterson, S.L.Source:Gerontologist.27(5):639 644,October 1987.Abstract:Researchers sought to describe thecharacteristics of older, rural, natural helpers, tohelp recipients examine the kinds of assistanceelderly helpers provide to different types ofrecipients, and to identify similarities anddifferences in the helping process used byfemale and male helpers in two differentregions of the country. The type of helpersought for interviewing was defined as one whoprovides spontaneous, informal help torelatives, friends, and neighbors, usually on aone to one basis.In all, 91 people from rurallocations (45 from the Midwest and 46 fromNew England) were identified as helpers from apool of people identified by community groupsand individual residents. In person interviewswere conducted with 40 older individuals ineach site by experienced social workers. TheNatural Helper Interview Schedule wasconstructed to obtain information on (1) helperand recipient characteristics, (2) helpingtechniques, (3) relationships, (4) helper style,(5) problem type, (6) perceived outcome, and(7) effectiveness (helpfulness). All identifiedhelpers were white, the majority were in their60's and 70's, married, relatively well educated,Protestants, and retired or homemakers. Therecipients were the relatives, friends, andneighbors of the helpers; the majority of89Issues of Agingrecipients, whether employed or retired, held orhad held skilled rather than professionalpositions.Results indicate that although femaleand male helpers were similar on demographicvariables, there were marked sex differencesassociated with helper motivation, helpinitiation, helping style, and perceived outcome.More females, for example, cited caring aboutpeople as their major motivation for helpingwhereas more men reported being motivated bya sense of moral obligation to help others.Conversely, few site differences emerged in twodissimilar regions of the country. The study hasimplications for mental health professionals inidentifying and understanding the preventiveand restorative activities of older relatives,friends, and neighbors in rural communities.4 tables, 31 references. (HE9700080)126Older Volunteers: A Discussion of theMinnesota Senior Study.Form:Journal article.Authors:Fischer, L.R.; Mueller, D.R;Cooper, RW.Source:Gerontologist.3 1(2): 183 194, April1991.characteristics; (2) housing; (3) transportation;(4) health and daily functioning; (5) socialsupports; (6) employment; and (7) participationin volunteer work. The study found that 52percent of Minnesotans do volunteer work fororganizations, a rate considerably higher thanthat found in national surveys. Problems indefinition and methodology, however, haveconfounded analyses. Researchers conclude byproposing a new conceptual model forclassifying volunteer roles, based on threedimensions: whether volunteer service isformal (volunteer work for an organization) orinformal (voluntary services to individuals);whether the activity entails a regular or anoccasional time commitment; and the nature ofthe service activity (person to community,person to object, or person to person). 3 tables,23 references. (HE9700079)127Older Volunteers Use and Learn SpecialSkills in Seven Model Health Projects.Form:Journal Article.Author: Hickey, J.C.Source:Hospitals. 52(22): 128 130, 132,November 16, 1978.Abstract: Using findings from the MinnesotaSenior Study, researchers examine thetheoretical and methodological difficulties ofdefining, coding, and analyzing data on oldervolunteers and present a conceptual model fordefining and categorizing forms of voluntaryservice. Conducted during 1988 to 1989 by theWilder Research Center, the Minnesota SeniorStudy consisted of a telephone survey of arepresentative statewide sample ofapproximately1 ,500 noninstitutionalizedMinnesotans over age 59 years. Conducted togather data on how the elderly contribute tosociety and to assess their needs, the surveyquestionnaire addressed (1) demographicAbstract:Health education programs acrossthe country have benefited from elderly personsacting as volunteer health educators orcounselors. Working with existing organizationsand institutions, the Clark Foundation hasinvested $10 million of its own and $30 millionreceived from external funding sources tofinance efforts to recruit and train older peopleto meet community needs. With the assistanceof the Hospital Research and Educational Trust,an affiliate of the American HospitalAssociation, the foundation helped establish3 year demonstration projects in 1977 that used300 elderly volunteers in 7 hospitals. Thevolunteers have assisted programs designed to90Older Persons as CHA's/Older Target Populationsprovide comprehensive discharge planning andfollow up support, counseling and grouptherapy, public relations, health care needsassessments, planning services, educationalservices, and data collection and analysisservices. Health education centers, screeningservices, telephone counseling, andpararesearch services have been established.Addresses for information on health careprojects for older volunteers are listed.(HE7900412)128Psychosocial Differences Between ElderlyVolunteers and Non Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Hunter, K.I.; Linn, M.W.Source:International Journal of Aging andHuman Development. 12(3):205 213, 1980 1981.Abstract:Researchers examined thedifferences between elderly persons whovolunteer and those who do not participate insuch activities. The sample included 53volunteers and 49 nonvolunteers over age 65years; all participants were retired from paidwork. The volunteers offered their services atthe Veterans Administration Hospital (VAH) inMiami, Florida, on a regular, assigned basis.Researchers interviewed all volunteers duringworking hours. Nonvolunteers wereinterviewed individually for approximately1 .5 hours in private apartments within a seniorcitizen's housing complex, a senior day center,and in various outpatient clinics of the VAH andUniversity of Miami affiliated hospitals. Datacollected included background anddemographics and dimensions of psychosocialadjustment. Background and demographic dataincluded (1) marital status, (2) age, (3) numberof years in school or professional training,(4) household composition, (5) parentalbirthplace, (6) alcohol consumption, (7)smoking behavior, (8) stressful life events,(9) medication, (10) surgical history, (11)sensory motor function, (12) ambulation, (13)ability to perform various daily activities, and(14) experience with pain. The dimensions ofpsychosocial adjustment included (1) locus ofcontrol; (2) symptomology; (3) anxiety,depression, and somatization factors; (4) lifesatisfaction; (5) self esteem; and (6) will to live.The results indicated there were no significantdifferences between the volunteer andnonvolunteer groups in (1) sex; (2) age;(3) number of years of school or professionaltraining; (4) degree of religious feeling; (5) diet;(6) social class; (7) household composition;(8) number of surgical operations; (9) amountof pain typically experienced; (10) level ofalcohol consumption; (11) smoking behavior;(12) ability to function in activities of dailyliving; (13) incidence of stressful life events; or(14) unusual marital, financial, or legalproblems. Compared with nonvolunteers, theelderly volunteers were significantly moresatisfied with life; had a stronger will to live;and reported fewer somatic, anxious, anddepressive symptoms. Analyses and results donot conclude a cause and effect process, yetdocumentation suggests that many of thoseengaged in volunteer activities feel that suchwork has changed their lives for the better.Researchers suggest a study be conducted toinvestigate if a program of volunteer activitiesinitiated for those elderly who have symptomsof depression, anxiety, or general dissatisfactionwith life would in fact change their state ofmind in any significant way.3 tables,20 references. (HE9700342)91Issues of Aging129Recruitment and Orientation of OlderVolunteers in Extended Care.Form:Journal article.Authors:Davidhizar, R.; Bowen, M.Source:Nursing Management.26(12):42, 44,December 1995.Abstract:Educators discuss ways to increasevolunteerism among older persons. Comparedwith younger persons and staff, older personsoften have more time to listen and to givepatients and residents personal attention. Themost effective way to recruit volunteers isthrough word of mouth, solicitation by personalcontacts, suggestions of present volunteers, andpersonal invitations. Suggestions and personalinvitations by present volunteers offer theadditional advantage of modeling. Recruitmentis more likely if volunteer times are scheduledto meet older persons' needs. Older personswho have volunteered previously are morelikely to volunteer again and thus are easier torecruit than are new volunteers.Carefulselection can result in volunteers who are morelikely to be active, committed, and loyal.Careful matching of volunteers to programs hasbeen found to promote retention. An effectiveorientation program for older volunteers muststress that (1) all information about patientsmust be kept confidential; (2) once volunteers'time has been scheduled, they must notify theagency if the commitment cannot be kept; (3)the volunteer may not offer opinions or adviceon medical problems to patients; (4) thevolunteer assists patients or residents inindependent living; and (5) the volunteer shouldnot become personally involved with patientsand residents. The program should (1) providevolunteers with tips on effective communicationtechniques; (2) emphasize that doing littlethings for patients can be highly significant(e.g., letters, cards, walking with a patient forexercise, and chatting can be important topatients' happiness); (3) provide volunteers withinformation on patients' requirements (e.g., theneed to repeat things several times for patientswith memory or orientation problems); (4)mention the rewards for volunteerism (e.g., howother volunteers have been appreciated bypatients); and (5) discuss where the volunteershould report and to whom.11 references.(HE9700066)92School Health130Activity and Similarity in Safer SexWorkshops Led by Peer Educators.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reeder, G.D.; Pryor, J.B.; Harsh, L.Source: AIDS Education and Prevention.9(Supplement A):77 89, February 1997.Abstract:Researchers examined theeffectiveness of peer led safer sex workshopsthat were designed to encourage condom useamong sexually active college students. Theevaluation focused on two variables:theamount of audience involvement in workshopactivities, and the similarity of the peereducators to their audiences.Participants wererecruited from a general education courseoffered by the Psychology Department atIllinois State University (ISU). The studentswere predominantly white females, with amedian age of 18 years. The sample consistedof 171 students who were randomly assigned toone of four safer sex workshops or to a controlgroup. Workshop formats were activity basedwith either similar or dissimilar peer leaders, orinformation based with either similar ordissimilar peer leaders. All students completeda questionnaire before and immediately afterthe workshop and again a month later. Theactivity and information workshops presentedthe same content in the same order, butparticipants in the activity workshopscompleted a series of small group exercises;those in the information workshops played arelatively passive role. Peer leaders withsimilar beliefs as their audiences identifiedthemselves as members of the ISU PeerEducation Program and described personalviews of premarital sex that were thought to betypical of ISU students. Those with dissimilarbeliefs said that they were from IllinoisWesleyan University and stated that theirpersonal religious beliefs were opposed topremarital sex. The dependent measuresincluded perceived similarity to the peer leader,attitudes toward the workshop, knowledge ofsexually transmitted diseases and condom use,self reported condom use (for current partners)or intention to use condoms with new partners,self efficacy, response efficacy, and perceptionsof social norms.Results indicated that theactivity format was more effective than theinformation format in encouraging condom useduring the month following the workshop.Inaddition, the similarity of the peer leadersinfluenced behavioral intentions to use acondom with new partners. The researchersconcluded that the effectiveness of peereducation may be enhanced by includingactivities and by using peer leaders who aresimilar to the target audience.3 tables,26 references. (HE9700783)131Communication Skills Training forParaprofessional Helpers.Form:Journal article.Author: Avery, A.W.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.6(6):583 591, December 1978.Abstract:Investigators constructed andevaluated a communication skills trainingprogram for paraprofessional helpers. The 35participants included 34 undergraduate studentsand1 graduate student who had been selected,based on grade point average and term standing,to receive training as residence hall counselorsat the Pennsylvania State University. The first20 candidates, including1 1 males and 9females, received training for immediateopenings (the experimental group), while the93School Healthother 15 candidates, including11 males and 4females, were to be trained at a later time (thecontrol group).Investigators selected thedimension of empathy as the dependent variablebecause of its significance as an essentialcondition in the helping relationship. Theyselected the Carkhuff Empathy Scale as themeasure of the dependent variable. Theexperimental and control groups had nosignificant differences in age, initial level ofempathy (based on pretest data), and amountsof prior helping experience (based on the initialcounselor application). As a pretest,investigators gave members of both theexperimental and control groups theopportunity to help a person in a 15 minuteaudiotaped helping interview at the outset of thestudy. The individuals presenting problems tothe participants in the interview wereconfederates who were supervisory residencestaff personnel with extensive experience inrole playing student problems. Aftercompleting the pretest, the experimental groupreceived 20 hours of training; the control groupreceived no training at this time. Following thetraining, as a posttest, members of both groupscounseled a person similarly to the pretest.Independent judges rated the pretest andposttest audiotapes. The results indicated thatthe trained participants demonstratedsignificantly higher levels of empathy than didthe untrained participants and that theymaintained their level of empathy after6 months.1 table, 13 references. (HE9700331)132Developing Capacities of Youth as LayHealth Advisors: A Case Study With HighSchool Students.Form:Journal article.Authors:Berkley Patton, J.; Fawcett, S.B.;Paine Andrews, A.; Johns, L.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4) :48 1 494, August 1997.Abstract: The Peer Helping Program (PHP) isa youth lay health advisor (YLHA) programdesigned to increase high school students'ability to provide emotional and social supportto their peers. The PHP was implemented in alarge high school (grades 10 through 12) in amidwestern city. The student population waspredominantly white and was experiencing avariety of problems, including a lack ofextracurricular capacity, overcrowding, andhigh levels of risky behaviors. The PHP wasdeveloped as a collaborative partnership amongthe students, school staff, representatives fromlocal mental health and prevention agencies,university students, and other members of thecommunity. The PHP established acomprehensive program development plan,identified funding sources, and secured anevaluation team. The primary program goalswere to (1) increase the number of studentsqualified to provide support and assistance totheir peers, (2) provide effective training toequip students with peer helping skills, (3) useYLHA's to assist peers in problem solving andto promote a supportive school environment,and (4) refer students to local counselingservices for critical situations. The student bodywas surveyed to identify those peers to whomstudents believed they would go for help andthe problems for which they would seek help.All prospective YLHA students attended aninitial overnight training retreat, followed bymonthly training sessions on specific problem94School Healthareas. A total of 24 YLHA's were trained (19girls, 5 boys).Several strategies were used topromote the PHP, including personal contactwith students, morning announcements on theintercom system, posters, flyers, and coveragein the school and local city newspapers. Arapid formative evaluation was conducted toassess the YLHAs' satisfaction with the trainingretreat, measure changes in peer helping skillsafter training, monitor YLHA helping contacts,and obtain YLHA's perspectives about theprogram's accomplishments, challenges, andfuture. Future PHP plans included (1) loweringthe social stigma of seeking counseling fromthe PHP through advertising and advocacy; (2)creating a more comfortable, accessibleenvironment for the program; (3) learning moreabout specific problems and how to deal withthem; and (4) increasing the involvement ofschool administrators in the program.3 tables,39 references. (SA9700921)133Evaluation of Prototype School Based PeerCounseling Program.Form:Journal article.Authors: Kim, S.; McLeod, J.H.; Rader, D.;Johnston, G.Source:Journal of Drug Education.22(1):37 53, 1992.Abstract:Researchers report outcomeevaluation results of a1 year prototype peercounseling program at a North Carolina highschool. The evaluation measured (1) the peercounseling program in terms of programcontent as evaluated by the trainees, (2)instructor quality as perceived by the trainees,(3) several instrumental objectives deducedfrom the peer counselor training program, and(4) the degree to which the program reachedother students at the high school.Schooladministrators and faculty recommendedpotential counselor candidates; the schoolcounselor coordinated and supervised theprogram. The peer counseling studentvolunteers received training composed of (1)video sessions, (2) processing sessions (adiscussion period in which participants workthrough problem situations by participating ingroup discussions and skits), and (3) a 2 dayoutdoor camp with activities designed topromote trust among the peer counselors and toinstill the concept of teamwork. The mostcommon student problem areas encountered bythe peer counselors included conflict with boy/girlfriends, depression, and parent/familyconflict. Using the Peer Counseling ActivitiesLog process evaluation instrument, peercounselors logged each counseling situation.Researchers used the Peer Training EvaluationInstrument, a completely anonymous and self administered questionnaire, to evaluate theprogram. The instrument contained 5 1 Likert type scale items measuring the instrumentalobjectives of the peer counseling program andprobing the program participants' reaction tothe peer counseling program and its instructor.For the outcome evaluation, researcherscompared students' overall reaction to programcontent and to the instructor with correspondingstudent evaluations of regular school work andregular school teachers.In the absence of acontrol group, researchers determined theprogram's treatment effect in terms ofindividual growth curve models. The multipleevaluations indicated that a significantly largerproportion of students in the peer counselinggroup had more favorable attitudes toward theprogram content than toward regular schoolcurriculum content. A significantly largerproportion of students in the peer counselingprogram reported more favorable attitudestoward peer counseling instructors than towardregular schoolteachers. The peer counselingprogram improved trainee self esteem andadvanced social values between pretesting and95School Healthposttesting, but did not generate significantattitudinal improvement in basic social values,student teacher relationship, student motivationlevel, and their attitude on school value.6 tables, 33 references. (HE9201424)134How Peer Education Changed PeerSexuality Educators' Self Esteem, PersonalDevelopment, and Sexual Behavior.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sawyer, R.G.; Pinciaro, P.;Bedwell, D.Source:Journal of American College Health.45(5):21 1 217, March 1997.Abstract: Researchers evaluated changes inself esteem, personal development, and sexualbehavior among college peer educators as aresult of their participation in peer sexualityeducation programs. The study populationconsisted of 119 previously untrained collegestudents who registered to participate in theirrespective institutions' peer education programsfor a full academic year. Researchers examinedsexuality peer education programs from 10universities throughout the United States. Eachuniversity had a total enrollment of more than10,000 students and had had established peereducation programs for more than 3 years.Researchers collected data from the peereducators three times during the course of anacademic year.Pretest data were collected onthe first day of peer training before any actualtraining had commenced. The first posttest wasadministered just before the winter break andthe final posttest at the end of the academicyear. The pretest survey contained 12demographic items, the Rosenberg Self EsteemScale, the Personal Development Inventory, andthe Safe Sex Behavior Questionnaire. The firstand second posttests included the threequestionnaires plus several open ended itemsrelated to the peer educators' experience. All ofthe peer educators completed the pretest, 95completed the first posttest, and 65 completedthe final posttest.In their analyses, researchersincluded only the 65 students who completedthe pretest and both posttests. The peereducators were predominantly female andranged in age from 18 to 31 years.Resultsshowed positive changes in the peer educators'self esteem, personal development, and safe sexbehavior, although the increases were notstatistically significant. The researchersrecommended conducting additional researchwith a larger population of peer educators.They also recommended that efforts to justifypeer education programs focus more on the peereducators rather than solely on evaluations ofknowledge gains in program recipients.2 tables, 18 references. (HE9700782)135Peer Counselor Training Program:Rationale, Curriculum, and Evaluation:An Initial Report.Form:Journal article.Authors:Dorosin, D.; D'Andrea, V.; Jacks, R.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association. 25 (4):259 262, April 1977.Abstract:Educators discuss their experienceswith peer counseling training among studentgroups. Because many student group membersexpressed an interest in peer counselingtraining, the educators evaluated andconceptualized several themes of motivation bythe students to characterize their interest intraining to be peer counselors.It becameapparent through discussion that the studentgroups were motivated by issues such asheightening access to peer communication forsolitary individuals, emotional support, andincreasing and supporting self definition.Based on the responses received by the96School Healtheducators, they developed a peer training coursebased on the microcounseling technique. Theemphasis of the course was on skill learningthrough the use of videotape for both contentand for immediate feedback of role playing.Evaluation of the training course included threemajor components:(1) ongoing evaluation byboth the students and trainers of the sessions,(2) systematic evaluation of the effect of thetraining on learned skills, and (3) evaluation ofthe actual counseling by the people who havetaken the training.1 figure, 5 references.(HE9700322)136Peer Nutrition Education Programs onCollege Campuses.Form:Journal article.Authors: Horacek, T.M.; Betts, N.M.; Rutar, J.Source:Journal of Nutrition Education.28(6):353 357, November December 1996.Abstract:Researchers determined theprevalence and scope of peer nutritioneducation programs on college campuses andmade recommendations for initiating aprogram.Surveys, sent to all 234 directors forDidactic Programs in Dietetics, included itemsregarding (1) the existence of peer nutritioneducation programs; (2) how long suchprograms had been in place; (3) how theprograms were coordinated; (4) peer educationdemographics and training; (5) programfunding; (6) services provided; (7) programevaluation; and (8) other areas of interest, suchas problems experienced and advice for startinga program. Researchers developed the surveybased upon existing literature and piloted itwith three nutrition science faculty members.Of the 115 schools that returned surveys, 26reported they had peer nutrition educationprograms. Most of the programs (92 percent)used dietetic students as educators, with thenumber of peer educators participating in theprograms ranging from1 to 50, with an averageof 14 per program. Twenty two of the programs(86 percent) reported that they providedadditional training for their peer nutritioneducators. Programs were most often fundedby department funds or student fees but a fewwere funded through grants. For the majorityof the programs, the educators' time wasdevoted first to counseling and assessment, thento outreach. Most programs reported offering awide variety of outreach presentations for theirstudent population. Respondents reported anumber of public relations and programevaluation strategies as well as problems theirprograms had encountered and advice onstarting a program. The researchers concludedwith a number of suggestions on beginning apeer nutrition education program. 2 tables,2 1 references . (HE970046 1)137Peer Participation in Project Northland: ACommunity Wide Alcohol Use PreventionProject.Form:Journal article.Authors: Komro, K.A.; Perry, C.L.; Veblen Mortenson, S.; Williams, C.L.Source:Journal of School Health.64(8):318 322, October 1994.Abstract: Researchers describe the rationale,conceptual framework, and programcomponents of Project Northland, a peerparticipation program for prevention of alcoholuse among young adolescents. Program goalsincluded (1) providing peer leadership andsocial support for nonuse of alcohol, (2)creating opportunities for behavioralalternatives to alcohol use, and (3) creating anorm of nonuse among young adolescents.Researchers implemented the program withseventh grade students in 20 northeastern97School HealthMinnesota schools. Community coordinatorsrecruited 33 adult volunteers to facilitate peergroups in the schools. At an initial ProjectNorthland peer leadership group meeting,students from each school selected two to fiverepresentatives to attend one of two leadershiptraining sessions.Researchers designed thetraining sessions to increase peer leaders'involvement in prevention efforts, createexcitement about being part of the program, andempower students to plan, participate, andpromote alcohol free activities. Peer leaderschose to call the program TEENS (The Excitingand Entertaining Northland Students). Duringthe first year of the program, peer leadersorganized 62 supervised, alcohol free activities.Most peer leadership groups met during theschool day, during lunch period or study hall.Most TEENS members (7 1 percent) believedthat their classmates liked the activities, and 86percent thought that their classmates had fun atthe activities. The peer leaders planned avariety of activities, including an open gym andmovies held at the school on weekend nights,dances, ski trips, roller skating, bowling, tubing,and beach parties. Findings suggest the needand indicate support for peer planned, alcohol free activities.1 figure, 23 references.(SA9500321)138Personal and Situational Determinants ofVolunteer Recruitment for a CampusHotline Program.Form:Journal article.Author: Turner, J.R.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association.21(4):353 357, April 1973.Abstract: The author evaluated some of thepersonal and program variables that mightidentify and increase the number of dependablestudent volunteers working for student peerhotlines. The study sample included 169undergraduates (69 males and 100 females)who were recruited as student volunteers for apeer hotline. These individuals were dividedinto three different groups according to theirresponses to recruitment after an initial meetingabout the volunteer program:(1) Definitelyvolunteering, (2) definitely not volunteering,and (3) ambivalent about volunteering. Thevolunteer group, 28 males and 36 females, saidthat they wanted to participate in the programand attended a minimum of 2 meetings. Thenonvolunteers, 21 males and 20 females, statedduring the first meeting that they had nointention of participating further in the program.The potential volunteers, 20 males and 44females, said that they had intended to serve,but after learning about the time required, haddecided not to participate because of othercommitments. On an application form to theprogram, researchers asked students to describethemselves using the 300 item Adjective CheckList. They also used the Social Action Surveyto measure student attitudes toward theprogram's general concept of students helpingother students, and the Test of CounselorAttitudes which contained the following fivescales:(1) evaluative, (2) interpretive, (3)understanding, (4) supportive, and (5) probing.Results showed that volunteers as comparedwith nonvolunteers and potential volunteerswere more self controlled, tolerant, anddedicated to social improvement. The attitudeof the volunteers toward service recipients wasmore supportive. A consistent sex difference inthe volunteer group was that the malevolunteers were strongly oriented towardhelping others while female volunteers wantedto learn and achieve academically.Overall, thegroup of potential volunteers differed moremarkedly from volunteers than fromnonvolunteers. From the results of the study, itappears that recruiting literature encouragingstudents to volunteer should emphasize the dual98School Healthopportunity to help and learn simultaneously.3 tables, 13 references. (HE9700321)139Programmatic Prevention of AdolescentProblem Behaviors: The Role ofAutonomy, Relatedness, and VolunteerService in the Teen Outreach Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Allen, J.P.; Kuperminc, G.; Philliber,S.; Herre, K.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.22(5):617 638, 1994.Abstract:Researchers conducted a study inorder to identify factors explaining the differingrelative effectiveness of Teen Outreachprograms in reducing problem behaviors atdifferent sites. Specifically, they examinedwhether positive site outcomes would bepredicted by (1) the degree to which a site wasseen by students and facilitators as supportingstudents' developmental need for a sense ofautonomy and relatedness within the programand (2) the extent to which students believedthe volunteer community service that theyperformed encouraged them to learn new skills,to think about their life goals, and to influencethe nature of the work performed. From 1987to 1992, researchers evaluated 1,020 students at66 sites who participated in the Teen OutreachProgram and 1,013 comparison students. Studyparticipants filled out a brief self reportquestionnaire indicating their age, school gradelevel, race, household composition, and parents'education levels. Information was also gatheredon whether they had ever been pregnant or hadcaused a pregnancy, and whether they hadfailed any courses or been suspended during theschool year. The researchers assessed thevariations in the implementation of TeenOutreach at different sites by administeringquestionnaires to both participants andfacilitators during the final month of theprogram.Results show that middle school sitesthat promoted student autonomy andrelatedness with peers and site facilitatorsachieved significantly reduced problembehaviors. Although the program was equallysuccessful with students from a wide range ofsociodemographic backgrounds, links ofprogram factors to site level outcomes werefound for middle school but not high schoolsites. The researchers conclude that the successof an effective intervention to preventadolescent problem behaviors is linked both toits promotion of students' sense of autonomyand relatedness and to autonomy enhancingqualities of volunteer experiences provided toparticipants. 4 tables, 37 references.(SA9700001)140Reducing Health Risks Through PeerHealth Education: A Preliminary Report.Form:Journal Article.Authors:Nagelberg, D.B.; Hodge, J.M.;Ketzer, J.M.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association. 28(4):234 235, February1980.Abstract: The student health service ofBowling Green (Ohio) State University initiatedthe Health Risk Reduction Program to promotestudent health by increasing self awareness andpersonal responsibility for health. Thetraditional pre enrollment physical examinationwas replaced by a self reported medical healthinventory called the Database Acquisition forStudent Health. Data from the inventory wereanalyzed and students received a health riskindex outlining their health status. Peer healtheducators, selected from groups of upper classor graduate students, counseled the students.Faculty and staff members in the health,99School Healthnutrition, health and physical education,psychology, social work, and education fieldsselected the paraprofessional peer educators.The candidate educators attended a 10 weekcourse, during which a psychologist and aneducator instructed them in health contentareas, process skills, and practicum trainingtopics. The potential peer educators alsoviewed and evaluate videotaped interviewedwith students. Each educator interviewed fourto five freshmen each week. Approximately300 freshmen were interviewed each academicquarter. A survey of 108 freshmen who metwith a peer educator during 1979 and 100freshmen who received their inventory resultsthrough the mail indicated that student attitudestoward the educators were favorable and thatthe educators clarified students' perceptions ofinventory results. 7 references. (HE8 101097)141School Based Prevention of Teen AgePregnancy and School Dropout: ProcessEvaluation of the National Replication ofthe Teen Outreach Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Allen, J.P.; Philliber, S.; Hoggson, N.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.18(4):505 524, August 1990.Abstract:Researchers describe process oriented evaluation data from the Teen OutreachProgram, a preventive intervention that attemptsto prevent school dropout and teenagepregnancy. The program was designed toprovide meaningful volunteer serviceexperiences and classroom based discussionopportunities to young people at risk forsignificant behavioral problems (such asdropout and pregnancy). Researchers examinednaturally occurring variations in theimplementation of the program at 35 differentsites in 30 schools nationwide. Within eachsite, investigators assessed four types of factorspotentially relevant to program success:(1) student demographics (age, race, sex); (2)structural program factors (whether the programwas given during or after school and whetheror not it was offered for credit); (3) programintensity factors (number of hours spent inclassroom discussions and in volunteeractivities); and (4) curricular factors (use ofvarious parts of the Teen Outreach curriculum).Participants included 632 students from theprogram and 855 comparison students, rangingin age from1 1 to 19 and from grades 7 12.Study measures included self reportquestionnaires on demographic characteristicsand problem behaviors and collection ofinformation from Teen Outreach facilitators onprogram intensity, structure, and curriculum.Researchers assessed students at program entry(fall) and exit (spring).Results indicated thatTeen Outreach site staff were most successfulwhen they worked with older students andwhen the volunteer component was moreintensively implemented at a site. Work withyounger students was more successful when itcontained more intensive classroomcomponents.Students' sex and minority statusappeared unrelated to their success in theprogram.Results highlight the need to bedevelopmentally sensitive in targeting andevaluating prevention programs for differentage groups.3 tables, 32 references.(SA9400143)100School Health142Skin Cancer Prevention: A Peer EducationModel.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reding, D.J.; Fischer, V.;Gunderson, P.; Lappe, K.Source: Wisconsin Medical Journal.94(2):77 81, February 1995.Abstract:Researchers related the results of ademonstration project to deliver skin cancerprevention education to youth. The project wasconducted in the 1991 1992 school year as partof the Wisconsin Farmers' Cancer ControlProgram to improve access to cancer educationand screening for rural residents. AmericanCancer Society staff, school curriculumcommittees, and representatives of the FutureFarmers of America (FFA) contributed to theproject's plan. The FFA practices peereducation, whereby older students teachyounger children about agriculture. FFAmembers from six northern Wisconsin highschools carried out the project. They used theChildren's Guide to Sun Protection K 3,developed for students in grade three, as theintervention. The curriculum includedbackground information on the basic anatomyof the skin, skin cancer, the sun and the damageit causes, and methods of sun protection. At a1 day workshop, 40 FFA members receivedtraining on skin cancer and sun protection, onteaching skills, and on administering thesurveys. The intervention consisted of 10questions about sun protection. The studentsanswered preprogram, postprogram, and6 month follow up surveys, while controlgroups answered the identical survey but had nosun protection education session between thepreprogram and the postprogram surveys. Theresearchers compared the results of theexperimental groups with those of the controlgroups, using chi square tests and the Mann Whitney U test. The students could take home(1) activity sheets, (2) a skin cancer brochuredeveloped specifically for farmers, (3) aninformational skin cancer sheet, (4) a bookmarkwith sun protection guidelines, and (5) asunscreen sample. Seven third gradeclassrooms acted as controls.Overall, theintervention group had significantly improvedscores on the postsurvey compared with thecontrol group. The control groups participatedin the sun protection education after thepostsurvey, which made it difficult to interpretthe results of the 6 month follow up data. TheFFA facilitators completed presurveys,postsurvey s, and follow up surveys, showing animprovement in their knowledge and intendedbehavior. The findings demonstrate theeffectiveness of peer facilitators in educatingyounger students about skin cancer.2 tables,12 references. (CP9500302)143Teens Teach Skin Cancer Prevention.Form:Journal article.Authors:Reding, D.J.; Fischer, V.; Gunderson,P.; Lappe, K.; Anderson, H.; Calvert, G.Source:Journal of Rural Health.12(4, Supplement):265 272, 1996.Abstract:Researchers report on a programdesigned to deliver sun protection education toyouth, using members of the Future Farmers ofAmerica (FFA) as peer educators. They basedthe program on the hypothesis that a school based sun protection education programdelivered by youth facilitators would result inincreased sun protection knowledge amongyounger children.Facilitators of the programwere 217 teenaged educators from 39 FFAorganizations throughout Wisconsin who weretrained at a 1 day workshop involving (1)information on skin cancer and sun protection,(2) the introduction and practice of the sun101School Healthprotection curriculum, and (3) teaching skillstraining. The youth facilitators delivered apresentation on sun protection to 2,007 thirdgraders. Topics covered included backgroundinformation on (1) the anatomy of skin, (2) skincancer, (3) the sun, and (4) methods of sunprotection. The presentation emphasized theABC's of sun protection (Away, Block, Coverup, and Speak Out).Facilitators administered asurvey consisting of 10 questions to the thirdgraders before, at the conclusion of, and 6months after the presentation.Control schoolsincluded 57 facilitators and 669 third graderswho were surveyed in the same manner as theintervention groups, with no education sessionoffered.Students who responded correctly to aquestion on the postsurvey after respondingincorrectly on the presurvey were said to have aknowledge gain for that question.Resultsshowed (1) there were no significant differencesbetween the intervention and control groups forany of the presurvey questions, (2) theintervention group had a significantly higherproportion of students experiencing knowledgegain than did the control group postsurveys, and(3) the intervention group showed significantimprovement in skin cancer preventiontechniques.3 figures, 2 tables, 28 references.(CP9700236)144Utilization of Peers in a College CrisisIntervention Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Grant, C.H.; Hubble, K.O.;Helm, C.J.Source:Journal of the American CollegeHealth Association.21(4):327 332, April 1973.Abstract: Based on the general effectivenessof the University of Nebraska Health Center'saide program, the Crisis Health Aide programused crisis intervention and anticipatoryguidance approaches to aid individuals indeveloping more adequate coping skills to dealwith the problems of daily life.Crisis healthaides help individuals work through some of thefeelings that accompany every crisis and aid inproblem solving, wherever possible. Thespecific goals of the crisis health aides include(1) helping fellow students in crisis, (2) helpingdefine immediate problems as separate frompast ones, (3) discussing with the studentpossible solutions and alternatives, and(4) offering referrals for further professionalhelp. Crisis health aides are selected on thebasis of an application, a short autobiographicalsketch, and a screening interview.Allcandidates participate in a series of four to sixtraining sessions.Crisis health aides are paidmembers of the Health Center staff under thedirect supervision of mental health staffmembers. Evaluation of the center to datereveals that the center seems to be functioningin a much broader capacity than originallyintended.In addition to providing students withhelp in resolving emotional and physical crises,the Crisis Health Aide Center serves as an after hours point of access to the university healthcare delivery system, as a medical referralservice, and a general information service forthe university community. 4 tables,6 references. (HE9700314)102Maternal and Child Health145Breastfeeding Promotion and Support:Peer Counselor Handbook.Form: Manual.Corporate Author:Virginia Department ofHealth, Division of Public Health Nutrition,Virginia WIC Peer Counselor Program.Source: Richmond, VA, Virginia Departmentof Health, Division of Public Health Nutrition,Virginia WIC Peer Counselor Program, 143 p.,Revised November 1995.Abstract: This handbook was designed toprovide peer counselors with the necessaryinformation and skills to successfully promotebreastfeeding in mothers in Virginia's SpecialSupplemental Nutrition Program for Women,Infants and Children (WIC). The peer counselor(1) offers support and encouragement topregnant and breastfeeding mothers; (2)provides accurate information aboutbreastfeeding; and (3) helps the mother findanswers to her questions, doubts, and fears.The manual contains an orientation for peercounselors and handouts for six lessons.Lesson One, The Human Breast and Lactation,addresses breast changes during pregnancy,common breastfeeding concerns, a diet forbreastfeeding mothers, and a WIC approvedfood list, and infant nutrition. Lesson 2,Beginning Breastfeeding, discusses the basicsof breastfeeding, proper positioning, breastsoreness, caring for the baby, the sleepy orfussy baby, and care of the breasts. LessonThree,Special Situations, includes such topicsas illness, drugs, Cesarean delivery, early onsetjaundice, thrush, adolescents and breastfeeding,sex and birth control, nursing more than onebaby, breastfeeding during pregnancy, tandemnursing, contraindications to breastfeeding,when to refer to one's supervisor, and supportgroups. Lesson Four, Mother Baby Separation,covers breastfeeding and returning to work orschool, breast milk expression, collection andstorage, and weaning. Lesson Five,Counseling, discusses counseling skills,telephone counseling, pregnancy counseling,postpartum counseling, a self assessmentcounseling checklist, the grief process, culturalbeliefs and breastfeeding, and definitions ofbreastfeeding terms. Lesson Six, Review andExam, includes a breastfeeding observationguide, a peer counselor referral and contactform, and a monthly report form.Classworksheets and a test are also provided.(HE9700732)146Breastfeeding Promotion and Support:Peer Counselor Training Manual.Form: Manual.Authors:Bryan, S.; Burt, A.; Butler, P.;Johnson, D.; Kotula, K.; Morlang, B.; Neville,J.; Tate, M.; White, K.Source: Richmond, VA, Virginia Departmentof Health, Division of Public Health Nutrition,Virginia WIC Peer Counselor Program, 62 p.,Revised March 1996.Abstract: This manual was developed to helptrainers provide peer counselors with theinformation and skills needed to successfullypromote breastfeeding in mothers in Virginia'sSpecial Supplemental Nutrition Program forWomen, Infants and Children (WIC). TheVirginia WIC Peer Counselor Program isdesigned to (1) recruit more WIC mothers tobreastfeed, (2) support WIC mothers whobreastfeed and encourage them to do so for alonger time, and (3) help breastfeeding mothersovercome any difficulties they have withbreastfeeding. The manual contains anorientation for peer counselors and six lessons.Lesson One, The Human Breast and Lactation,103Maternal and Child Healthcovers breast anatomy and physiology, breastchanges during pregnancy, breast milk, milkcomposition, advantages of breastfeeding,common myths and barriers, preparing forbreastfeeding, and infant and maternal nutrition.Lesson Two, Beginning Breastfeeding,describes the birth process, proper positioning,early problems, growth and development,common concerns, care of the breasts, and theessentials of breastfeeding. Lesson Three,Breastfeeding:Special Situations, includessuch topics as contraindications tobreastfeeding, nursing more than one baby,breastfeeding during pregnancy, and when torefer a client to a supervisor. Lesson Four,Mother Baby Separation, addresses breast milkexpression, breast milk collection and storage,supplementation, and weaning. Lesson Five,Counseling, discusses the role of the peercounselor, counseling skills, the grief process,cultural beliefs and breastfeeding, anddocumenting counseling with a referral orcontact form and monthly report. Lesson Six,Review and Test, includes a review of previouslessons, an evaluation, a final test and review ofthe final test, and a format for the graduationceremony. The manual also includes amonitoring and evaluation section, whichdescribes measures used to evaluate the PeerCounselor Program. Handouts for both trainersand trainees are provided throughout themanual. (HE9700731)147Can Home Visitation Improve the Healthof Women and Children at EnvironmentalRisk?Form:Journal article.Authors:Olds, D.L.; Kitzman, H.Source:Pediatrics.86(1): 108 116, July 1990.programs for socially disadvantaged womenand children. Programs recruited women orfamilies that were at environmental risk formaternal and child health problems. Theresearchers examined three factors regardinghome visitation services that are critical indetermining success:(1) the underlying causalmodel of influences on maternal and childoutcomes; (2) the corresponding content andstructure of the services; and (3) the degree towhich the population served was atenvironmental, behavioral, or psychosocial riskfor the particular problem under consideration.Four randomized trials that examined the effectof prenatal home visitation on birthweight andlength of gestation were discussed.Researchersalso examined 10 trials of home visitationprograms that investigated maternal teachingand children's cognitive development asoutcomes, 3 trials testing home visitationprograms as a means of preventing child abuseand neglect, and 3 trials examining health andother types of psychosocial outcomes.Resultsof the review suggested that home visitprograms with the greatest chance of successhave three characteristics: (1) they are basedexplicitly or implicitly on ecological models,(2) they are designed to address the familyecology during pregnancy and earlychildbearing years with nurse home visitorswho establish a therapeutic alliance with thefamilies and who visit frequently (addressingthe systems of behavioral and psychosocialfactors that influence maternal and childoutcomes), and (3) they target families atgreater risk for maternal and child healthproblems because of poverty and lack ofpersonal and social resources. 40 references.(HE9700490)Abstract: Researchers reviewed randomizedtrials of prenatal and infancy home visitation104Maternal and Child Health148Community Health Advocates TrainingGuidebook.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: Ohio Department ofHealth, Commission on Minority Health.Source: Columbus, OH, Ohio Commission onMinority Health,111 p., September 1994.Abstract: Community Health AdvocatesTraining Guidebook is a training book for theSoutheast Asian Regional Community Health(SEARCH) Project. The project's goal is toincrease the use of maternal and child healthservices among Cambodian, Chinese, Hmong,Laotian, and Vietnamese refugees and low income immigrants in Toledo and Columbus,Ohio, and in Detroit, Michigan. SEARCHseeks to reduce informational and logisticalbarriers to accessing maternal and child healthservices among the target population and toincrease community and provider involvementby improving access to those services throughthe training of outreach workers and healthadvocates, outreach, health education, andcommunity based health services.Part1contains trainers' orientation and includessections on (1) understanding Southeast Asiancultures, (2) cultural orientation, (3) steps forplanning the Southeast Asian CommunityHealth Advocate Training program, (4)establishing trust, (5) community resources andassets, (6) selecting community healthadvocates, (7) learning how adult healthworkers learn, (8) needs assessment, and (9) anoverview of the training model.Part 2 includestraining modules:(1) remembering ourmotherland and cultural heritage; (2) learning tolive in the United States; (3) health and illness:two world views; (4) overview of the UnitedStates health care system; (5) using health careservices; (6) from making an appointment tomaking payment; (7) avoiding unnecessary useof the emergency department; (8) women'shealth issues; and (9) raising healthy children.The training modules were developed afterproject staff performed a needs assessment ateach site. Topics serve as a launching point forthe training of any Southeast Asian communitymembers. Each module contains three sections:module overview; outline of instruction; andmaterials, aids, and references. A referencesection includes a resource list, general andcultural references, health belief references,maternal and child health references, mentalhealth references, and lay health workers/advocates/aides references. (HE9700350)149De Madres a Madres: An Access Model forPrimary Care.Form:Journal article.Author: McFarlane, J.Source: American Journal of Public Health.86(6):879 880, June 1996.Abstract: The De Madres a Madres (Mothersto Mothers) program began in 1989 in Houston,Texas, to empower Hispanic American womenthrough unity, to validate women as key healthpromoters, and to accept the community'sability to identify and meet its own healthneeds. Neighborhood mothers recruited asvolunteers participated in an intensive trainingprogram offered by a public health nurse, andworked with her to develop a mission statementand accompanying brochures about communityresources for pregnant women. During thesecond year of the program, the number ofvolunteers, all of whom were Hispanic andlived in the neighborhood, increased to 20.Volunteer mothers sought out and referredpregnant women to community agencies,including neighborhood clinics, food assistanceprograms, and social services. They alsoconducted outreach efforts, accompanied105Maternal and Child Healthpregnant women to clinic appointments, andvisited the mothers after they had given birth.In return, community citizens and agencypersonnel identified pregnant women in need ofthe program and referred them to a volunteermother. At the end of the second year, a 3 yeargrant enabled the volunteer mothers to open theDe Madres a Madres Center, which was staffedby public health nurses and a volunteer whoserved as center manager. Programs launchedat the center included training in leadershipskills, computers, public speaking, and grantwriting.In addition, the De Madres a MadresCenter was purchased by the volunteer mothers.During the fifth year, the volunteer mothers andlay staff assisted 8,440 persons, a 34 percentincrease over the previous year. During thesixth year, additional programs were begun forpregnant adolescents and abused women. Themothers began year 7 (1995) with an operatingbudget of $100,000, 6 staff members, and 60volunteers. Since the beginning of the programin 1989, no low birthweight infants have beenborn to women who worked with a volunteermother. The number of pregnant womenfollowed by volunteer mothers increased from59 in 1991 to 221 in 1993. The authorsconclude that at least 5 years is needed toinitiate, develop, and sustain a community based model for primary care. The involvementand leadership of community residents from thebeginning of the program and continuousvalidation with the community are required,along with local money to ensure localownership. (HE9600946)150De Madres a Madres: A Community,Primary Health Care Program Based onEmpowerment.Form:Journal article.Authors: McFarlane, J.; Fehir, J.Source:Health Education Quarterly.21(3):38 1 394, Fall 1994.Abstract: The de Madres a Madres (frommothers to mothers) Program began in 1991 ininner city Hispanic communities in Houston,Texas, to help empower indigenous womenthrough unity, volunteerism, validation ofwomen as key health promoters, and theacceptance of the community's ability toidentify and redress its own health needs.Volunteer neighborhood mothers helpedpregnant mothers to access prenatal health care.The authors chronicle the 5 year communityempowerment process and the collectiveenhancement of community health. Indigenousvolunteer mothers received training inproviding information to increase access tohealth care. Volunteer mothers met and greetedpregnant women and asked about theirpregnancy and offered community resourceinformation and a follow up phone call or homevisit. Volunteer mothers also offeredinformation at local stores and banks. By theend of the second year of the program, thevolunteer corps grew to 30 mothers, with morethan 3,000 women receiving information. Inthe third year, the program rented a home andhired two community health nurses.In thefourth year, the volunteer mothers formed acoalition with the local health department andother organizations.In the fifth year, theprogram hired two paid mothers to coordinateoutreach and facilitate leadership development.Outcome data have identified the covertfunctions of the program to be the enhancement106Maternal and Child Healthof community self esteem, power, andeconomy.1 table, 17 references. (HE9500083)151Development of a Paraprofessional HomeVisiting Program for Low Income Mothersand Infants.Form:Journal article.Authors:Poland, M.L.; Giblin, P.T.; Waller,J.B.; Bayer, I.S.Source: American Journal of PreventiveMedicine.7(4):204 207, July August 1991.Abstract:Researchers describe thedevelopment of a paraprofessional homevisiting program that (1) provides servicesbased on empirically documented client needs,(2) uses indigenous paraprofessional maternaland child health advocates, and (3) emphasizesmaintaining and enriching the sharing ofbeliefs, values, and attitudes. To determineclient needs, researchers conducted preliminarystudies involving (1) telephone interviews withwomen who received prenatal care in publiclyfunded clinics, and (2) in hospital interviewswith low income postpartum mothers. Thestudies addressed (1) how women evaluateservices provided by publicly funded prenatalcare clinics in Detroit, Michigan; (2) how toencourage more pregnant women to remain inprenatal care and receive more appointments;and (3) whether prenatal behavior predictsdeficits in parenting and therefore makes urgentthe continuation of program efforts throughinfancy. Findings indicates a need for programemphasis in (1) a continuity of services frompregnancy through infancy; (2) the developmentof needs assessment procedures sensitive to abroad range of health and social problems; (3)an ongoing personal relationship with anindigenous paraprofessional; and (4) areduction of barriers to prenatal care inherent inthe health care system itself (waiting time, lackof transportation, lack of insurance, lack ofavailable services, and need for a babysitter).Program developers required that advocates (1)receive public assistance, (2) possess a highschool diploma or equivalent, (3) live inDetroit, (4) have private transportation, (5)possess qualities of personal warmth, (6) beable to accept full time employment, and (7) beknowledgeable about the maternal and childhealth and social systems. The paraprofessionaltraining program fostered mutuality andcooperation and emphasized assertive, caring,and problem solving behaviors and positiveself esteem.1 table, 6 references.(HE9200877)152Effects of Home Based, Informal SocialSupport on Child Health.Form:Journal article.Authors: Dawson, P.; Van Doorninck, W.J.;Robinson, J.L.Source:Journal of Developmental andBehavioral Pediatrics.1 0(2) :63 67, April 1989.Abstract:Researchers examined the effects ofsupport for parents, through home visits andparent groups, on child health.Participantswere (1) recruited from three clinics in amaternity and infant care project of a localhealth department, (2) expecting their first orsecond child, (3) 20 26 weeks pregnant, (4) atleast 16 years old, and (5) in families with lowincomes. Most participants were white (74percent) or Mexican American (25 percent);one woman was black.Researchers assignedthe 175 women to one of three experimentalconditions. The control group received routinematernity and pediatric care, including socialand nutrition services, occasional home visitsby public health nurses, and delivery at theuniversity hospital. Treatment group1 receivedthe same routine services as the control group107Maternal and Child Healthplus weekly home visits. Treatment group 2received routine services, weekly home visits,and invitations to biweekly parent groups thatfostered supportive social interactions amongmothers. Home visitors were mothers selectedfor warmth, empathy, and interest in helpingpeople, with educational levels similar to thoseof their clients. They received 30 hours ofinitial training on pregnancy, birth, infant care,safety, nutrition, child development, communityresources, and family life. Home visitorsdeveloped trusting relationships with clientsand focused on emotional support, concretehelp, information, and enhancing informal andformal social networks. Researchers usedbirthweight and gestational age to describepregnancy outcome. Supervising public healthnurses interviewed each home visitor at the endof the project about the families she had visited.Data analysis found (1) no difference betweengroups in perinatal outcomes for mothers, (2)both women visited at home and control groupwomen made good use of well child care, (3)the greater use of sick child care wasconcentrated among mothers with moderate orhigh family stress, and (4) home visitors weremore helpful to mothers than to parent groups.4 tables, 23 references. (HE9700496)153Guide to Written Training Materials forHome Visitors.for both preservice instruction and inserviceprofessional development. The manual isdivided into three parts.Part1 reviews 30written training materials organized into fivetopic areas:(1) maternal and child health; (2)child abuse, neglect, and injury prevention; (3)early intervention; (4) family support; and (5)health promotion and home health.Materialsinclude training manuals, program manuals, andreference manuals. Each review consists of anabstract that summarizes the background, focus,and format of the material, followed by morespecific information about the content,presentation, and literacy level of the material.Part 2 of the manual describes trainingmaterials associated with the Parents asTeachers National Center, the Home InstructionProgram for Preschool Youngsters (HIPPYUSA), and the Elmira Study/Memphis NewMothers/Home Visitation 2000 Program. Thesematerials are not available for general purchasebut are integrated with program sponsoreddevelopment and training efforts.Part 3describes books about home visiting and relatedtopics.Descriptions in this section include title,author, format and length, source and year,address, telephone and fax numbers, cost, and abrief summary of the content and targetaudience of the material. An author index and atitle index are provided. (HE9700748)Form: Manual.Authors: Wasik, B.H.; Sheaffer, L.; Pohlman,C; Baird, TSource: Chapel Hill, NC, University of NorthCarolina, Chapel Hill, School of Education,Center for Home Visiting, 59 p., 1996.Abstract: The guide to Written TrainingMaterials for Home Visitors is designed to helpeducators, program directors, and supervisors ofhome visitors select materials that can be used108Maternal and Child Health154Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant MortalityReduction: Volume I: ConsortiaDevelopment.Form: Monograph.Author: McCoy Thompson, M.Source:Arlington, VA, National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health, 50 p.,1994.Abstract:Healthy Start Initiative: ACommunity Driven Approach to InfantMortality Reduction: Volume I:ConsortiaDevelopment is a monograph from the NationalCenter for Education in Maternal and ChildHealth that describes the challenges the HealthyStart projects have faced in developingconsortia and how they handled thosechallenges. The information was obtainedthrough site visits and interviews with projectstaff and consortium members at five sites:(1)Baltimore, Maryland; (2) Chicago, Illinois; (3)New Orleans, Louisiana; (4) northwest Indiana;and (5) the Pee Dee region of South Carolina.Chapter1 introduces the Healthy Start Initiativeand its belief that the community, guided by aconsortium of individuals and organizationsfrom many sectors, can best design andimplement the services needed to meet theneeds of that community.Chapter 2 discussesthe effects of five critical factors in thedevelopment of consortia:(1) the social andpolitical climate, (2) the leadership andparticipation of the people involved, (3) theavailability of financial and human resources,(4) the processes that enable consortiummembers to work as a team and to handleconflict constructively, and (5) theorganizational policies that facilitate or impedecollaboration. Chapter 3 describes how theprojects responded to four particular challengesin developing consortia:(1) how to create asuitable framework for management andgovernance, including how to handle a time consuming process in a short timeframe, how todivide responsibility, and how to structure themany levels of collaboration; (2) how toincrease the participation of consumers,especially adolescents, in Healthy Start; (3)how to resolve tensions caused by racial andclass differences; and (4) how to improveeconomic development in the communities.Chapter 4 discusses future concerns for theHealthy Start consortia and offersrecommendations to enhance consortiumdevelopment. The monograph includes twoappendixes, Healthy Start Sites Visited andBibliography. (HE9700666)155Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant MortalityReduction: Volume II: EarlyImplementation: Lessons Learned.Form: Monograph.Authors: McCoy Thompson, M.; Vanneman,J.; Bloom, F.B.; eds.Source:Arlington, VA, National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health, 86 p.,1994.Abstract:Healthy Start Initiative: ACommunity driven Approach to InfantMortality Reduction: Volume II: EarlyImplementation: Lessons Learned is amonograph from the National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health thatpresents the lessons learned by 15 Healthy Startprojects during their first 2 years of planningand implementation, from October 1991 toNovember 1993. The monograph contains aseparate report for each project, describing theunique challenges that were faced at that siteand how those challenges were handled. Manyof these lessons reflect common themes related109Maternal and Child Healthto community involvement, consortiadevelopment, management and governance,program initiatives, provider issues, andsustainability. The projects described a varietyof methods used to encourage communityinvolvement including (1) recognizing race andclass differences, (2) identifying communityneeds, (3) encouraging participation in programplanning, (4) employing community members,and (5) empowering the community to helpitself. The projects shared an emphasis onestablishing consortia and many described thelessons they had learned in recruiting membersand developing effective partnerships withthem. They reported several commonmanagement and governance issues includingthe need (1) to prepare well before beginningwork, (2) to address funding issues, (3) toimplement appropriate personnel policies, and(4) to monitor progress. The projects alsodescribed what they had learned from a widearray of program initiatives including outreachprograms, integrated services, incentiveprograms, and efforts to increase maleinvolvement. Many projects shared theirconcerns and suggestions about how toincrease the supply of medical providers,facilitate linkages among providers, andwork directly with providers.Several projectsdescribed their efforts to establish interventionsthat could be sustained and be replicated inother communities. (HE9700667)156Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant MortalityReduction: Volume III:Sustainability.Form: Monograph.Authors: McCann, T; Young, B.W.; Hutten,D.; Lightsey, D.; McCoy Thompson, M.; Cox,S.; Dirtadian, A.; eds.Source: Arlington, VA, National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health, 106 p.,1995.Abstract: Healthy Start Initiative: ACommunity Driven Approach to InfantMortality Reduction: Volume III:Sustainability is a monograph from the NationalCenter for Education in Maternal and ChildHealth that describes strategies the HealthyStart projects can use to sustain their workbeyond the initial 5 year funding period. Themonograph is intended for both existingHealthy Start sites and consortia and othercommunities that wish to adopt the HealthyStart philosophy.It describes how thedemonstration sites can empower their owncommunity based initiatives to continue overthe long term and how they can help othercommunities to replicate their successes. Themonograph focuses on three approaches tosustainability:(1) capitalizing on a changingenvironment, (2) telling the Healthy Startstories, and (3) building bridges to public andprivate resources. Chapter1 describes how theHealthy Start projects can capitalize on changesin the local, state, and federal environments totake advantage of new opportunities and planeffectively for the future. Chapter 2 discussesthe importance of telling the stories of eachHealthy Start site in terms of its effect at thecommunity level.It provides information aboutthe methods used and the lessons learned inevaluating several common Healthy Startcomponents:(1) economic development and110Maternal and Child Healthempowerment, (2) support services, (3)consortia and governance, (4) publicinformation and education, and (5) preventiveservices for adolescents. Chapter 3 describeshow the Healthy Start sites can build capacityfor sustainability by (1) building partnershipswith community stakeholders, includinggovernment agencies, health care providers,businesses, community based organizations,and consumers; (2) building bridges to publicand private financial resources; and (3) buildingnetworks and sharing information with eachother. (HE9700668)157Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant MortalityReduction: Volume IV: CommunityOutreach.Form: Monograph.Authors: McCann, T.; Young, B.W.; Hutten,D.; Hayes, A.; Wright, B.; Lightsey, D.;Gwinner, V.; eds.Source:Arlington, VA, National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health, 148 p.,1996.Abstract:Healthy Start Initiative: ACommunity Driven Approach to InfantMortality Reduction: Volume IV: CommunityOutreach is a monograph from the NationalCenter for Education in Maternal and ChildHealth that offers suggestions to improvecommunity outreach services. The monographis intended for three audiences:(1) thecommunity health workers who provideoutreach services; (2) the programs that recruit,train, and supervise outreach workers; and(3) other health care providers, agencies, andpolicy makers. Chapter1 presents suggestionsfor outreach workers on (1) how to improveservices to clients, (2) how to encouragefathers' involvement, (3) how to better serveethnically diverse populations, and (4) how tocare for their own needs as they reach out toothers. Chapter 2 offers suggestions foroutreach programs about ( 1 ) how to define theroles of outreach workers; (2) how to recruit,train, and supervise outreach workers; and(3) how to develop networks and supportgroups to enhance communication aboutoutreach workers. Chapter 3 suggests strategies(1) for building and maintaining partnershipsbetween outreach programs and othercommunity resources, (2) for working togetherto sustain outreach programs, (3) for workingwith managed care organizations, and (4) forworking with policymakers. Chapter 4describes how to design responsive trainingmaterials and home visiting activities, based onneeds assessments and how to collect data andevaluate programs. The chapter also explainshow computerized information systems canimprove services to clients and how researchcan benefit home visiting and outreach workerprograms. The final chapter describes howthree model programs use perinatal outreachworkers as a critical part of their efforts toreduce infant mortality and improve familyhealth. An appendix describes severalresources for fundraising and sustainability.(HE9700669)158Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant MortalityReduction. Volume V:Collaboration WithManaged Care Organizations.Form: Monograph.Authors:Joffe, M.S.; Back, K.Source:Arlington, VA, National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Health,1 15 p.,1997.Abstract: The Healthy Start Initiative: ACommunity Driven Approach to Infant111Maternal and Child HealthMortality Reduction, Volume V, CollaborationWith Managed Care Organizations, is a manualto assist Healthy Start projects and theirsubcontracting service providers in developingproposals and entering into contracts withhealth maintenance organizations (HMO's) thatserve Medicaid clients. The manual is intendedto help these organizations( 1 ) understand andevaluate the needs and responsibilities ofHMO's, (2) evaluate and adapt their owncapabilities and those of their subcontractors tomeet the HMO's needs, (3) develop and marketproposals, and (4) successfully negotiatecontracts with HMO's. Chapter1 reviews someof the initial steps in pursuing relationships withMedicaid managed care programs. Chapter 2provides basic information about thecharacteristics and types of HMO's, HMOproviders, and provider payment arrangements.Chapter 3 explains the benefits of contactingthe state's Medicaid managed care program.Chapter 4 explores factors influencing anHMO's willingness to contract with a HealthyStart project. Chapter 5 describes four broadstrategies the Healthy Start project can use toenhance its attractiveness to HMO's:demonstrating that the Healthy Start project canhelp the HMO provide required services,performing well on quality measures, reducingcosts, and increasing revenues. Chapter 6describes the steps involved in preparing to actas a contractor to HMO's. Chapter 7 discussesthe process of deciding what services to offer toHMO's. Chapter 8 explains how to develop andmarket a managed care proposal. Chapter 9describes how to propose and negotiate acontract. Chapter 10 addresses issues that mayarise while working with an HMO. Theappendixes include a glossary of managed careterms, sample HMO Healthy Start projectcontracts (detailed and short versions), a sampleHealthy Start project subcontractor agreement,a list of state Medicaid directors, and a list ofstate Maternal and Child Health contacts.(HE9701200)159Home Health Visiting in Europe.Form:Journal article.Authors: Kamerman, S.B.; Kahn, A.J.Source:Future of Children.3(3):39 52,Winter 1993.Abstract: The authors discuss home healthvisiting in Europe. European home healthvisiting services differ in many ways with theservices of those programs in the United States.Most notably, the programs are largelyuniversal, (e.g., the services are offered to allfamilies). They have existed in Europe formore than a century and are a well acceptedpart of life that is integrated into broadgovernment funded health and social services.The programs are popular, generouslysupported, and viewed as effective.Specialattention in this article is given to describinghome visiting programs in Great Britain(England, Scotland, and Wales) and Denmark.Each of the countries believes that home healthvisiting programs are one piece of an essentialnetwork of economic and social supportsprovided by the government to families.Achievement of child health goals requires notonly health services, but also cash and noncashbenefits, housing supports, child care services,and social services as needed by the family.Ineach of the countries researched, home visitingprograms are voluntary, free, and not income tested. They are carried out by professionals,usually registered nurses, who visit homesfollowing the birth of a child. They providehealth education, preventive care, and socialsupport services to very young children andtheir parents. The services are supplemented bymore comprehensive health services available112Maternal and Child Healthto children through a system of maternal andchild health clinics or private doctors under auniversal health insurance system. Europeanhome health visiting programs differ in manyways including (1) whether special focus isgiven to specially identified families, (2)whether a family is visited after the birth oftheir first child only, (3) whether visits beginprenatally, (4) whether the visits aresupplemented with center based support groupsand care, and (5) the frequency of the visits.The services described contrast greatly with theservices of those programs in the United States.The authors address a pointed question: Couldthis be replicated in the United States? Theyconclude that a truly effective home healthvisiting program could not be possible withouta comprehensive maternal and child healthdelivery system and national health insurance.The United States lacks such an infrastructure.The authors also suggest that the United Stateshas little experience with universal programs, akey characteristic of European programs andcentral to their success.12 references.(HE9700604)160Home Visitation for Pregnant Women andParents of Young Children.Form:Journal article.Author:Olds, D.L.Source: American Journal of Diseases ofChildren.146(6):704 708, June 1992.Abstract: A researcher synthesized researchon home visitation for pregnant women andparents of young children and examined currentlegislative initiatives in light of that research.The design and results of a randomized trial ofprenatal and infancy home visitation by nursescarried out in Elmira, New York were reviewed.Evidence from other randomized trials was alsoexamined and analyzed in relation to theproposals of major advisory groups and currentlegislative initiatives. The Elmira studyinvolved 400 women who were having theirfirst child and were at risk for poor pregnancyand health outcomes because they were poor,unmarried, or teenagers.Results of the studyshowed that home visitation participants hadmore improved outcomes than the otherparticipants. A review of all the randomizedtrials of pregnancy and infancy home visitationprograms showed that programs variedtremendously in terms of objectives, targetgroups, structure, background of visitors, andcorresponding effectiveness. More successfulprograms focused on families at greater needfor services; they used nurses who visitedfrequently, beginning during pregnancy andcontinuing at least through the second year ofthe child's life. These programs were based oncomprehensive service models. The researchernoted few of the legislative initiatives beforeCongress or other home visitation proposalscontain all of the programmatic features neededfor program success and recommendeddeveloping a national home visitation programfor parents and young children.1 figure,1 table, 29 references. (HE9700493)161Home Visiting: Analysis andRecommendations.Form:Journal article.Authors: Gomby, D.S.; Larson, C.S.; Lewit,E.M.; Behrman, R.E.Source:Future of Children.3(3):6 22, Winter1993.Abstract: The authors analyze home visitingand provide recommendations for improvingthe practice. Home visiting programs are morepopular today than ever before, providinginformation, health care, and psychological orother support services directly to families.113Maternal and Child HealthThese programs can (1) reach those whootherwise might not receive services, (2)connect families with other services in thecommunity, and (3) foster special relationshipsbetween the visitor and the family. There is abroad range of health or social service homevisiting programs in the United States, howeverthere is no uniformity in these programs.Research has shown that home visitingprograms show diversity in (1) the goals of theprograms, (2) the experience and backgroundsof their staff and their clients, (3) the intensityand duration of the services they provide, and(4) the extent to which home visiting is theprimary service provided. It is the diversity offamilies that produces the enormous challengesthese programs face in meeting their needs.Research focusing on the evaluations ofexperimental designs of programs for pregnantwomen or families with young children haveshown that the most significant benefits havebeen achieved in home visiting programs thatattempt to address a broad array of the needs ofboth children and their parents. They focus onthe cognitive development of the child as wellas address many aspects of child health anddevelopment and the needs of the family foremotional and material support.Benefits havelargely been achieved through childdevelopment outcomes and, to a lesser extent,through health outcomes. Some of the largestgains have been achieved in programs wherehome visiting is not the only strategy, but isaugmented by other services and programs. Areview of characteristics of successful programsshows that home visiting programs should be(1) voluntary, (2) flexible, (3) culturallysensitive, (4) well staffed, and (5) realistic tothe expectations of the program staff and thecommunity. Costs of home visiting programsvary, depending on several factors including (1)number and duration of visits, (2) home visitorcase load, (3) home visitor credentials, (4)supervision and administration of visitors, and(5) parent time. Much work needs to be done inthe economic analysis of home visitingprograms. The author concludes that althoughhome visitors can improve children's health anddevelopment in important ways, these gainscannot continue without ongoingcomprehensive support for children andfamilies. Evidence for the effectiveness ofhome visiting programs is as good or betterthan the evidence for the effectiveness of manyother programs that exist to serve children andfamilies. 45 references. (HE9700602)162Home Visiting and Prenatal Care: ASurvey of Practical Wisdom.Form:Journal article.Authors: Peoples Sheps, M.D.; Efird, C;Miller, C.A.Source:Public Health Nursing.6(2):74 79,June 1989.Abstract:Researchers surveyed experts inprenatal care to determine their perceptionsabout the value of selected strategies forencouraging participation in care, for education,and for behavior change, with particularemphasis on home visiting. Respondents were118 individuals with experience in organizingand implementing prenatal care programs forpoor women or other high risk groups, whowere recommended by directors of officialmaternal and child health programs. Therespondents represented 48 states, 49.2 percentwere nurses, and 51.7 percent were over 40years old. Each person received a mailed nine page questionnaire requesting information onstrategies for promoting early and continuousprenatal care and education and behaviorchange during the prenatal period. Thequestionnaire identified 10 strategies in eacharea and requested that respondents indicatewhether or not they had experience with them114Maternal and Child Healthand the extent to which they perceived each oneto be effective. Data analysis found importantdiscrepancies between respondents' perceptionsabout the effectiveness of some prenatalstrategies and the actual extent of their use inpractice. The findings suggest that homevisiting is considered highly effective in threeof the purposes explored:( 1 ) promoting earlyregistration for care, (2) educating womenduring pregnancy, and (3) influencingappropriate changes in behavior. Peercounselors were considered to be the mosteffective for educational purposes. Counselingby paraprofessionals was viewed as moderatelyeffective in educational efforts, but mosteffective for altering unhealthy behaviors. Theresults raised questions about the education andbackground of home visitors and theappropriate role for public health nurses.5 tables, 17 references. (HE9700488)163Home Visiting Programs and the Healthand Development of Young Children.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ramey, C.T.; Ramey, S.L.Source:Future of Children.3(3): 129 139,Winter 1993.Abstract: The authors present a conceptualframework for understanding and describing themodes of operation of home visiting programsand the specific areas of early childhood healthand development they address. The first 3 yearsof a child's life represent the period of the mostrapid growth and development, especially interms of central nervous system developmentand associated physical development and socialbehavior. Therefore, home visiting programsduring this period of development can and oftendo have goals of both enrichment andprevention. Additionally, children's health anddevelopment include eight distinct, butinterdependent, domains of functioning:(1)survival; (2) values and goals; (3) a sense ofsecurity; (4) health; (5) social interaction; (6)self esteem; (7) communication; and (8) basicintellectual skills. Most home visitingprograms place some emphasis on one or moreof these eight domains, with the assumptionthat If e the most urgent family issues havebeen resolved satisfactorily, other less pressingbut important aspects of young children's healthand development can be addressed. Theauthors find evidence that programs whichtarget for change only one or a few areas offunctioning are not likely to have a lastingbeneficial effect, even on the targeted aspects.To be successful, home visiting programs mustbe comprehensive in their approach toaddressing children's and families' needs inmultiple domains of functioning. The authorsconclude with an analytical grid that can beused to describe and clarify the relationshipsamong the characteristics of home visitingprograms and their desired consequences. Theappendix offers an application of the grid todescribe the Infant Health and DevelopmentProgram.2 figures, 11 references.(HE9700608)164Home Visiting Programs for Families WithChildren Birth to Three: Results of aNational Survey.Form:Journal article.Authors:Roberts, R.N.; Wasik, B.H.Source:Journal of Early Intervention.14(3):274 284, 1990.Abstract:Researchers conducted a nationalsurvey to document the wide range of homevisiting prevention services provided to familiesthrough public and private health, education,and social services. They developed a 430 variable, 13 page questionnaire that surveyed115Maternal and Child Health(1) program affiliation, (2) population served,(3) child and parent characteristics, (4) purposesof the program for parents and children, (5)coordination of services for free standing andcombined programs, (6) funding, (7) specifichome visiting services provided, (8) deliverymodels for home visits, (9) curriculum forhome visiting services, (10) home visitoremployment and training, (11) supervision ofhome visitors, and (12) evaluation strategies.Researchers analyzed the responses of 643programs that exclusively served families withchildren from birth to 3 years.Results of thesurvey reported( 1 ) types of agencies thatemploy visiting for that age range, (2) types offamilies that receive home visiting services, (3)purposes for which home visits are conducted,(4) services provided to families, (5)organizational structures of home visitingprograms, and (6) educational levels required ofhome visitors and their supervisors.Findingsindicated that there is a network withincommunities that provides home based servicesto children from birth to 3 years. Theseservices are provided by health, education, andsocial service programs, though health andeducation are the predominant providers ofservice. Most programs used somecombination of professional andparaprofessional home visitors in providingservices to the families.Services are providedby individuals who have a relatively largeamount of professional training (very fewparaprofessionals). Programs have set minimumeducational requirements consistent with thetypes of services they provide. Programs reportthat home visitors do not carry excessive caseloads. Most programs have some form ofevaluation of their clients and programs.7 tables, 22 references. (HE9700489)165Home Visiting With Families in Poverty:Introducing the Concept of Culture.Form:Journal article.Author:Slaughter Defoe, D.T.Source:Future of Children.3(3):172 183,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author asserts thatcontemporary child and family interventionprograms too frequently neglect the culturalcontext in which programs are introduced. Theproblems of high case loads, scarce resources,and little or no attention to cultural context alltoo often characterize both prevention andtreatment programs. Home visitors do not havethe time, resources, or mission to assesscarefully the adaptive strengths and culturalecology of participating children and families.This assertion is illustrated with a discussion ofthe State of Illinois Department of Child andFamily Services program, which is offered asan example of a home visiting program usedinappropriately. The author argues thatcomprehensive service programs are what isneeded today, with program design anddevelopment taking into account the culturalecology of the participants including theirgeographical, historical, and contemporarybehavioral patterns. Four steps that areimportant in designing culturally appropriateservices are identified:(1) assess culturalcontext of the program; (2) establish andencourage an open dialogue regarding programgoals; (3) consider the culture of the programstaff; and (4) consider alternative programformats, such as group and center based care.The author illustrates the use of these steps withreference to some cultural characteristics ofAfrican American families, and stresses thatsimilar consideration of the characteristics ofother racial and ethnic groups is essential whenplanning their services. The author concludes116Maternal and Child Healthby stating that home visiting as a social supportstrategy is worthy of close scrutiny. However,the strategy is often used with little or nothought to cultural considerations.42 references. (HE9700610)166Home Visits: Necessary But Not Sufficient.Form:Journal article.Author: Weiss, H.B.Source:Future of Children.3(3):113 128,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the argumentthat home visits are a necessary, but notsufficient, component of a larger nationalstrategy to strengthen families and improve thehealth, well being, and positive life chance ofpoor children. The author first offers a briefexamination of the pertinent lessons about thestrengths and limits of home visit strategieslearned from America's first major effort toprovide home visits to poor families more than100 years ago.In the second section of thearticle, the evidence and experience from morecontemporary programs are examined to testthe notion that home visits are a necessarycomponent of a system of services to reach andserve disadvantaged families. The premisefrom which these modern programs work is thatin order to foster the early development ofchildren, especially disadvantaged ones, it isnecessary to intervene at home with parents tosupport and improve socialization, health, andeducation practices. Some of these programsrely on home visits as the exclusive means ofintervention, while others include them withother services. Additionally, a study of homevisit programs shows considerable variation ininitiative on many factors, including goals,content, timing, duration, and visitor and clientcharacteristics. There are, however, specialfeatures of home visiting programs that help tomake them effective and successful, such as (1)regular and frequent visits beginning in theprenatal period and continuing for the first 2 ormore years after birth, (2) a core educationalprogram and communication strategy designedto be responsive to parent needs, and (3) abroadening of content and goals to includeattention to a wider range of psychosocial andeconomic obstacles to healthy development andfamily functioning.In section three, the authorsuggests why home visits alone are insufficient.Studies of home visit implementation show thatthe visitor often uncovers family needs beyondthose related narrowly to the program focus.The home visiting program becomes lesseffective when there is a failure to provide theneeded information and attention. The fourthsection discusses the difficult question of howto develop a home visiting initiative that isfeasible and that helps to build a sufficientsystem of family support services to improvethe health, well being, and life chances of all,but especially of poor children and families.Finally, the author lays out a preliminary planfor a new home visiting initiative that is acatalyst for a broader system of services. Apreliminary plan for national home visitinglegislation is outlined. 63 references.(HE9700607)167Homeless Prenatal Program: A Model forEmpowering Homeless Pregnant Women.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ovrebo, B.; Ryan, M.; Jackson, K.;Hutchinson, K.Source:Health Education Quarterly.21(2):187 198, Summer 1994.Abstract: The Homeless Prenatal Program(HPP) is one of the first programs in thecountry to provide comprehensive prenatalservices to homeless pregnant women. The117Maternal and Child HealthHPP was established in a San Francisco,California, family shelter in 1989 to improvebirth outcomes and assist homeless women intransforming their lives. The HPP ascribes to amodel of empowerment that is both behavioraland structural as women are empowered to havehealthy birth outcomes and change their lifecircumstances. HPP provides clients with casemanagement, peer support, and advocacy. Themultifaceted staff consists of social workers,nurses, and community health outreachworkers. The main vehicle of empowerment isthe outreach worker support group in whichhomeless women share experiences and engagein honest dialogue in a safe environment. InHPP's service model, empowerment has twocentral tenets:(1) the mother child connectionand (2) the principle of giving back (to otherhomeless mothers what the community healthoutreach workers themselves once needed andreceived). Although exit from the program canoccur at any point, women are invited to staywith the program as long as they wish, tocontinue attending support group meetings, toreceive counseling, and to participate in familyplanning services. Researchers conducted aformative evaluation in 1992 to measure theprogram's effectiveness in improving neonataloutcomes, model of service delivery, andcommunity impact.Quantitative measuresassessed neonatal outcomes and short termeffects through internal and externalcomparisons of existing records of HPP clientsand county birth records. The qualitative aspectof the evaluation used participant observation todocument the processes of the support groups,outreach work, and clinic appointments andsemistructured interviews with the HPP staff toexplore the program's organizational structure,and to identify services provided by the HPPand assess the staff's understanding of theclients' needs and experiences. Programrecords of current and former clients wereanalyzed to determine the client's demographiccharacteristics, health status, and servicesreceived. The records of 214 clients wereanalyzed, revealing that the typical HPP client(1) is African American, age 27, with one ormore children; (2) enters HPP during hersecond trimester of pregnancy; and (3) has hadno prior prenatal care.Evaluation resultsindicated that HPP is achieving its programgoals.1 figure, 37 references. (HE9400793)168Immunizing America's Children: A ModelWorkshop.Form:Information package.Corporate Author:Healthy Mothers, HealthyBabies Coalition, Immunization Education andAction Committee.Source: Washington, DC, Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition, ImmunizationEducation and Action Committee. 13 pagemanual and 9 tip sheets, n.d.Abstract: Immunizing America's Children: AModel Workshop is designed to help healtheducators highlight and enhance the effect ofexisting immunization efforts in educating thecommunity about childhood immunizations.The overriding theme of the workshop is that asingle intervention is unlikely to lead to asustained, long term improvement inimmunization rates.Rather, a collaborativeeffort by public health departments, privatephysicians, hospitals, day care centers, pediatricnurses, civic groups, policymakers, and otherswould be necessary to achieve the UnitedStates' immunization goals by 1996. Theworkshop model provides an opportunity forthe exchange of innovative ideas and strategiesfor increasing access, reducing barriers,forming partnerships, and sharing information.The workshop can help increase awareness ofage appropriate immunization, enhance existingpartnerships, and attract new partners who can118Maternal and Child Healthparticipate in long term education efforts. Thispublication contains background materials andincludes a sample task list, invitation, agenda,and press release.It provides recommendationsto maternal and child health programs that canbe tailored to a specific community's needs.(HE9700467)169Inside Home Visiting Programs.Form:Journal article.Author: Powell, D.R.Source:Future of Children.3(3):23 38,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the widevariation that exists among home visitingprograms in their content, theory, and operation.Several current programs are discussed toillustrate different home visiting dimensionsand approaches. Programs focus on parents ofyoung children from pregnancy through age 6years; the programs represent the differencesamong populations served as well as thedifferences among approaches to home visiting.Several variables influence the underlyingtheory for home visiting programs:(1) thespecification of goals and outcomes; (2)assumptions, such as family resourcefulnessand determinants of behavior; (3) strategies foreffective change in individuals; and (4) thesponsoring agency. Home visiting programsvary not only in their theoretical andorganizational content but also in the specificsof their operation, particularly in four areas:(1) the content or focus of the home visit,(2) the intensity of the program, (3) themechanisms for responding to specific parentand child needs, and (4) the staffing patterns.The author notes that only one program, theMother Child Home Program, has beenevaluated by employing the rigorous techniqueof random assignment. However, the keyelements of program design outlined are usefulin conceptualizing potential or analyzingexisting evaluations. The author does not drawconclusions as to which approaches may bemore effective than others in achieving positiveresults, but does agree that some programsappear to better serve particular populations.The decisions about program methods shouldbe driven by the needs and characteristics of thetarget population. The author concludes thathome visiting is not a uniform practice but is arichly textured and highly varied servicedelivery method whose effectiveness differsacross settings and populations just as much asits design.1 table, 37 references. (HE9700603)170Mobile Van Programs That ProvideImmunization Services: A Compendium ofPrograms.Form:Directory.Corporate Author: Healthy Mothers, HealthyBabies Coalition, Immunization Education andAction Committee.Source: Washington, DC, Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition, ImmunizationEducation and Action Committee.132 p., April 1996.Abstract:This directory is a reference ofexisting mobile van programs and a resourcefor those considering starting a program. Thedirectory is organized as a state by statesummary of mobile van programs throughoutthe United States. The National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Healthsurveyed the mobile van programs on:(1)whom they serve, (2) what services theyprovide, (3) who sponsors the programs, (4)what tracking systems are used (if any), and (5)what parent and professional educationalmaterials are used. The guide answers thequestions:(1) if you were looking to purchase119Maternal and Child Healthanother van, what features would be mostuseful? and (2) what resources wouldeffectively eliminate the need for yourprogram? The Immunization Education andAction Committee of the Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition encourages the readerto use this directory as a reference whenworking with existing programs or as a resourceif beginning a program. (HE9700466)171Model Program for Providing HealthServices for Migrant Farmworker Mothersand Children.Form:Journal article.Authors: Watkins, E.L.; Larson, K.; Harlan,C; Young, S.Source:Public Health Reports.105(6):567 575, November December 1990.Abstract: The School of Public Health of theUniversity of North Carolina at Chapel Hilldeveloped a collaborative effort to assist the Tri County Community Health Center in improvingthe health of migrant mothers and children andto use the educational and consultant services ofthe state's Title V. Researchers describe theproject and discuss (1) sociodemographiccharacteristics of the maternal and childpopulation of migrant and seasonalfarmworkers who work in North Carolina andreceived primary care services at the Tri CountyCommunity Health Center between April 1985and October 1987, (2) their health statusindicators, and (3) trends in service use.Participants were 359 pregnant farmworkersand 560 children ages birth through 5 years.More than half of the women were Hispanicand almost all of the white women weremarried to Hispanic men. The total group ofpregnant farmworkers had a mean age of 23.1years, and 47 percent had completed 8 or feweryears of education. The health problemsreported most frequently for the women duringtheir pregnancy were urinary tract infections(23 percent) and sexually transmitted diseases(7 percent).Eighty four percent of theparticipants had dietary recalls showing calorieintakes of under 90 percent of therecommended dietary allowance. Of the 318participants for whom pregnancy outcome datawere available, 286 had live births; 8.4 percenthad low birthweight infants. A Spanish speaking staff of two public health nurses, apublic health nutritionist, and a social workerdeveloped a tracking system to encourageparticipants to maintain their health care afterthey left the center's service area. The projectstaff primary interventions included outreachand early case finding, coordination betweenthe center's programs and other health andsocial service agencies, and a health educationprogram conducted to train migrant farmworkerwomen as lay health advisors.Project activitiesincluded designing a nutrient scoring system ofthe participants' diets and presenting a series ofclasses in English, Spanish, and Haitian Creoleon appropriate health practices and the use ofhealth and social services to migrantfarmworker women recruited as lay healthadvisors.Classes were scheduled at locationsconvenient to the migrant farmworkers'residences (e.g., labor camps, church facilities,and the Migrant Head Start Center). Forty twowomen completed the lay health advisortraining program, 10 of whom participated formore than one season. To promote continuityof care, migrant farmworker women andchildren received copies of their health recordson the first visit, together with stampedpostcards to notify center staff of their newlocation when they moved. During 1986 and1987, (1) the number of children with completeimmunizations rose from 41 percent to morethan 60 percent, (2) more than 75 percent of thechildren received a developmental screening,(3) more women initiated care in the first120Maternal and Child Healthtrimester of pregnancy and made nine or moreprenatal care visits, (4) the proportion ofwomen breastfeeding their newborns increasedfrom 3 1 percent to 52 percent, and (5) there wasa significant decrease in the mean number ofvisits to the health center among infants, from4.5 visits to 3.1. The project demonstrated howestablishment of communication between thetwo systems of care, the migrant health centerand the Title V maternal and child healthprograms, enriched the services available tomigrant farmworker women and children andimproved their health status.9 tables,22 references. (HE9700092)172Nike Footed Health Workers Deal With theProblems of Adolescent Pregnancy.Form:Journal article.Author:Perino, S.S.Source:Public Health Reports.107(2):208 212, March April 1992.Abstract: The proposed Nike Footed HealthWorker Project (NFHW) seeks to trainadolescent mothers to become home visitinghealth workers in their own community.Projectobjectives are (1) to graduate 25 young motherswith a high school diploma and trainingnecessary to provide prenatal and postnatalhealth care, teach parenting skills, and counselpregnant and parenting adolescents; (2) toassign the NFHW's to jobs within a private orgovernment agency, each with a minimumcaseload of 10 pregnant or parentingadolescents; and (3) to receive loan repaymentsregularly from each NFHW. The adolescentmothers will complete high school while theyare simultaneously trained in the principles ofbasic prenatal and postnatal care, childdevelopment, nutrition, and counseling. Theresidential project's enrollees will spend 8hours a day, 5 days a week in training; for one half of each day, they will work toward earningtheir high school diploma; for the other half,they will fulfill requirements necessary tobecome an NFHW. After1 year, they willreturn to their own communities to serve thatpopulation. After signing a contract, traineeswill begin the project and receive a base salaryin the form of a student loan.Eligible for meritwage increases, they must use their salaries tomake preset contributions to the project forhousing, food, and child care expenses. Upongraduation, NFHW's will work out of localclinics and hospitals to bring basic care to thehomes of pregnant teenagers. Although notassociated with the Nike Corporation, projecthealth workers will wear the popular sneakers(1) to emphasize that their services are mobileand accessible and that health need not beconfined within clinic walls and (2) to associatethemselves with Nike's advertising slogan, JustDo It. NFHW's will help prepare expectantmothers for the arrival of their infant and willcontinue to work with the mother and herprimary health care providers as the newmother learns how to parent.1 table,7 references. (HE9201397)173Prenatal Education Outcomes for PregnantAdolescents and Their Infants UsingTrained Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Jones, M.E.; Mondy, L.W.Source:Journal of Adolescent Health Care.ll(5):437 444, September 1990.Abstract: A study evaluated the effects oflessons taught by trained nonprofessionalvolunteers to pregnant adolescents incommunity prenatal clinics. The ServingPregnant and Parenting Adolescents' Needs(SPPAN) project trained nonprofessionalvolunteers to serve as teachers of prenatal121Maternal and Child Healthlessons to low income pregnant adolescents andas postpartum hospital visitors to adolescentmothers. The study compared SPPAN projectparticipants with nonproject comparisonsubjects on the number of prenatal visits; returnrate for postpartum care, family planning followup and annual visit; return for a well child visitwithin the first postpartum year; return toschool following delivery; number of childabuse/neglect reports; and the rate of repeatbirths within 2 years of the index birth. Thestudy population included 210 participants and189 comparison subjects aged 18 years oryounger attending the same hospital in DallasCounty, Texas. The study divided participantsinto high or low treatment groups according toattendance; the high treatment group subjectsparticipated in eight or more lessons. Theproject used a system of rewards for attendanceat each session and at the postpartum visit.Researchers collected data on the participantsfrom clinic, hospital, and school districtrecords.Results of data analysis and log linearmodeling techniques suggest that a prenataleducation program of lessons taught by trainednonprofessional volunteers as an adjunct towell administered medical care can affect short term compliance with health regimens in wayssimilar to more comprehensive and expensiveintervention programs. 4 tables, 18 references.(HE9 100289)174Review of Research on Home Visiting forPregnant Women and Parents of YoungChildren.Form:Journal article.Authors:Olds, D.L.; Kitzman, H.Source:Future of Children.3(3):53 92,Winter 1993.Abstract: The authors review the results ofliterature concerning the effectiveness of homevisiting programs in improving the lives ofchildren and families. Their reviewconcentrates on randomized trials of homevisiting programs aimed at reducing the rates ofpreterm delivery and low birthweight, andpromoting the health and development ofparents and young children. The reviewincludes results of 3 1 home visiting programsthat have focused on:(1) preventing pretermdelivery and low birthweight, (2) improving thehealth and development of low birthweight orpreterm infants and their parents, (3) enhancingthe well being of children from families atsocial or economic risk, (4) families in whichthe child has a developmental disability orchronic disease, and (5) costs and savings thatresult from averted use of other services andincreases in government tax revenues resultingfrom improvements in parent and child well being. Outcomes of the programs are discussedincluding (1) changes in parental behavior,home environment, child development andbehavior; (2) child abuse; (3) rates of pretermand low birthweight births; and (4) health careuse. The authors found that narrowly focusedhome visiting programs did not take advantageof many opportunities for the promotion ofnumerous aspects of maternal, child, and familyhealth. The evidence suggests that theseprograms were less successful.Results suggestthat home visiting programs in the past havebenefitted some families but not others, andhave improved some outcomes but alloutcomes. These differences may be the resultof several characteristics of the home visitingprograms including their comprehensiveness ofpurpose and goals, level of staffing, frequencyof visits, and the populations they are designedto serve. Also, many of the studies failed tomeasure what the programs tried to affect. Theauthors conclude that programs that (1) arecomprehensive in focus, (2) have frequentvisits, (3) are staffed by well trainedprofessionals, and (4) serve families that are122Maternal and Child Healthinitially at increased risk for poor outcomes aremore likely to demonstrate success. 4 tables,68 references. (HE9700605)175Staffing Issues for Home VisitingPrograms.Form:Journal article.Author: Wasik, B.H.Source:Future of Children.3(3):140 157,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author outlines some of thecritical considerations for the recruitment,training, and support of home visitors, andoffers guidelines concerning the staffing ofhome visiting programs. A historical review ofhome visiting indicates that the roles of homevisitors have shifted as philosophy and beliefsabout human services have changed. Overtime, new responsibilities have been created forhome visitors. Program designers andadministrators need to consider five importantissues to develop a quality program staff:(1)professional experience or education; (2) race,ethnicity, and culture; (3) experience, age, andmaturity; (4) sex; and (5) interpersonal andhelping skills. Administrators must alsoconsider the training needs for home visitors,the supervision and support in addition totraining that home visitors need after they arehired, and the implications of sometimesstressful working conditions for staff turnover.However, the most important criterion is acandidate's initial level of interpersonal andcommunication skills. The author concludesthat to make good staffing decisions, programsshould first determine what their specific goalsand objectives are and then decide whatknowledge and skills the home visitors musthave to meet those goals and objectives.1 table,50 references. (HE9700609)176Strengthening the Community: TheEmerging Role of Outreach: A Manual forOutreach Workers.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: Ohio Department ofHealth, Ohio Infant Mortality ReductionInitiatives Program.Source: Columbus, OH, Ohio Department ofHealth, Ohio Infant Mortality ReductionInitiatives Program, 124 p., September 1996.Abstract: The Ohio Department of Health,Ohio Infant Mortality Reduction InitiativesProgram (OIMRI). OIMRI is a federally fundedprogram that aims to reduce infant mortality byimproving birth outcomes and promoting infanthealth.Currently, the Ohio Department ofHealth Funds 14 local projects to identify andrecruit into care the most at risk pregnantwomen, and to follow them through theirpregnancy, postpartum period, and the infant'sfirst year of life. The outreach concept has beentraditionally used as an approach to providingprenatal and other health care services to themost at risk pregnant women. This approachinvolves door to door canvassing, needsassessment, care planning, referrals, and homevisiting. This manual is a guide on how tocarry out an outreach and home visiting project.Subjects covered in the manual include(1)overview of pregnancy, (2) canvassing andsafety skills, (3) contraceptives and sexuallytransmitted diseases, (4) substance abuse duringpregnancy, (5) case management andaccountability, (6) home visiting: how andwhen, and (7) the first year of life:well childand immunizations. (HE9700469)123Maternal and Child Health177Universal Home Visiting: ARecommendation From the U.S. AdvisoryBoard on Child Abuse and Neglect.Form:Journal article.Author: Krugman, R.D.Source:Future of Children.3(3):184 191,Winter 1993.Abstract:In 1991, the United States AdvisoryBoard on Child Abuse and Neglectrecommended that the federal governmentimplement a new initiative to phase in universalvoluntary home visiting for children during theneonatal period to help prevent child abuse andneglect in the United States. According to theauthor, the 15 member Board'srecommendation for home visiting was shapedby (1) Dr. David Olds' promising researchfindings regarding home visiting, (2)communications with providers of homevisiting services around the country, and (3) theBoard members' intuitive belief that homevisiting makes good sense. Five options foraction were included in the Board'srecommendation:(1) launch pilot projects, (2)direct appropriate sections of the Department ofHealth and Human Services (DHHS) tostimulate the development of volunteerprograms, (3) direct appropriate sections of theDHHS to attempt to persuade insurers to coverthe costs of home visiting, (4) direct theAssistant Secretary for Health to ensure thathome visiting services are provided through thehealth care programs of the Indian HealthService, and (5) direct the Assistant Secretaryfor Health to attempt to persuade theDepartment of Defense to provide homevisiting services to military families.10 references. (HE970061 1)178Using Health Education Aides inCounseling Pregnant Women.Form:Journal article.Author: Conn, R.H.Source:Public Health Reports.83(11):979 982, November 1968.Abstract: A health educator discusses the useof health education aides in counselingpregnant women.In 1966, the HealthEducation and Information Department of theDistrict of Columbia Department of PublicHealth began employing nonprofessional healtheducation aides to supplement the work ofprofessional public health educators in maternaland child health. The job qualifications for ahealth education aide were a high schooldiploma and 2 years of appropriate experience.By July 1967, six aides had been hired. Whilethe public health educators dealt with programplanning and other problems requiringprofessional skill, the health education aidessought out and met with pregnant women. Thejob description stated that the aide wouldparticipate in a program of public healtheducation directed toward motivating pregnantwomen who had received little or no prenatalcare to seek medical attention early inpregnancy. To prepare the aides for theirassignments, intensive orientation and trainingfor a 3 week period was carefully planned andcarried out. The training consisted of informalclassroom discussions, on the job observations,and field trips to health facilities. The greatestasset of the aides was their familiarity with thelifestyles of the women. The aides contactedthe women, who might not have sought prenatalcare on their own. The aides either sent or tookapproximately 40 hard to reach women tohealth department clinics each month of theprogram. The hard to reach womenrepresented an increase of 400 patients during124Maternal and Child Health1967, a total of 3,500 more patient visits thanduring 1966. During this period the patient loadof the birth control clinics was increased by 37percent, an actual increase of more than 4,600women during 1967.3 references.(HE9700061)179Using Lay Health Workers: Case Study ofa Community Based Prenatal Intervention.Form:Journal article.Authors:Meister, J.S.; Warrick, L.H.; deZapien, J.G.; Wood, A.H.Source:Journal of Community Health.17(1):37 51, February 1992.Abstract:Researchers report on the design andimplementation of a prenatal outreach andeducation intervention for low income Hispanicand Hispanic American women living in threemigrant and seasonal farmworker communitiesin southwest Arizona.Researchers designed theintervention to (1) identify pregnant womenwith inadequate or no prenatal care; (2) provideeducation support, advocacy, and referral; and(3) create an ongoing community resource ofknowledge by training community women inaspects of conception, pregnancy, labor anddelivery, postnatal care, and related topics. Theintervention included three components:(1) aSpanish language prenatal education guide, (2)a delivery system using indigenous healtheducators, and (3) a support network of localhealth professionals.Researchers recruited aprogram coordinator/trainer who was a nursemidwife, was partly bilingual, and was familiarwith Mexican culture. A fully bilingual andbicultural woman who had been a farmworkeracted as a consultant. The programcoordinator/trainer and the consultantinformally recruited local women to act ashealth promoters and provided 2 months oftraining for 4 hours per week. Teaching thehealth promoters to teach was as important asproviding them with knowledge aboutpregnancy. During training, program staffrecruited program participants by placingposters in stores, radio announcements, makingvisits to Women and Infant Children (WIC)groups, and talking with neighbors and friends.Each health promoter recruited 10 women forher class. Classes were held in three targetcommunities. The program exceeded theplanners' initial expectations, both in the extentand enthusiasm of response and in its ability todeliver an educational and social supportprogram.Critical lessons learned include (1)how to maintain cultural relevance, (2) how toconduct a thorough initial communityassessment to identify potential resistance, (3)how to ensure careful attention to theempowerment of community based workers,and (4) how to collect data specifically todocument the effect for funders andpolicymakers. 37 references. (HE9201187)180Working With Community HealthAdvisors as Part of the Community HealthTeam.Form:Journal article.Author: Rudner, N.Source:Journal of Public Health Managementand Practice.2(3):60 65, Summer 1996.Abstract: Community health advisors (CHA's)typically come from sociocultural backgroundssimilar to those of the target community andusually do not have formal education beyondhigh school. They may visit families, help themwith family health needs, and provide supportand encouragement. CHA's can bridge culturalgaps between health care providers and clientsby using their communication skills, familiaritywith the culture and experiences of clients, andtraining and information from the program. The125Maternal and Child HealthResource Sisters/Companeras Program began inFlorida in 1992 as a peer support program forpregnant women, with home visits by CHA'sand peer support groups. The CHA's provideoutreach and case management, and facilitatethe peer support group. They work withcaseloads of 60 pregnant women, helping themaccess health and social services, ensuringongoing prenatal care, and providing peersupport.Qualifications for CHA's include (1)experiences similar to those of clients, withsome personal successes; (2) experience usingpublic services, such as the local healthdepartment; (3) natural talent and warmth;(4) some successful work experience; (5) highschool diploma or equivalent; and (6) owntransportation. Of 13 CHA's hired, only 4 hadthe personal, social, and work skills to continueto be productive for more than1 year. SomeCHA's were uncomfortable with their role,which they saw as a negative link between theirneighbors and the system; some felt anger anddepression that interfered with their roles.Rugged individualism, which may have aidedstreet survival, made it difficult for some CHA'sto establish mutual trust or to build a team.Socioeconomic and educational differencesbetween CHA's and clients often createddistances that mitigated against the goal ofdeveloping staff who understood and relatedwell with the community.Selectingsupervisory staff for the CHA's proved harderthan selecting CHA's.Successful supervisorystaff had skills, maturity, and enthusiasm forworking with the CHA's.Senior staff werenurses and social workers, average age 41years, with an average of 17 years of workexperience; all but one were black. Trainingwas ongoing; new staff had an intensive month long orientation, and staff also had weekly 2 hour training sessions covering casemanagement, group facilitation, and staff initiated issues. CHA's were urged to have asense of ownership in their work and in theprogram. A focus on the multiple strengths ofthe whole team and a shift from a hierarchicalapproach helped the CHA's.14 references.(HE9700351)126Sexual Behavior181Burnout, Social Support and AIDSVolunteers.Form:Journal article.Author: Maslanka, H.Source: AIDS Care.8(2): 195 206, 1996.Abstract: A research consultant examined theeffect that social support from agency staff andother volunteers had on the ability of volunteersworking at the Gay Men's Health Crisis(GMHC) in New York City to deal with humanimmunodeficiency virus (HIV) volunteering,the rewards they experienced throughvolunteering, and their experience of burnout.Between 1988 and 1990, more than 874individuals were enrolled in a 3 yearlongitudinal study of volunteers through weeklyorientation meetings held at GMHC.Participants completed questionnairesaddressing demographics and motivations forvolunteering. A follow up questionnaire mailed6 months later to individuals who had beenvolunteering for at least 4 months containedmeasures of social support, rewards, andburnout, and was returned by 444 individuals,265 of which were the study participants.Stress; social support; burnout (describedthrough scales of exhaustion, depersonalization,lack of boundaries, and withdrawal); rewards(defined as new values, sense of efficacy, andsense of community); motivations; and lengthof volunteering were assessed. Results indicatedthat being younger and having experiencedmore stress lead to heightened perceptions ofburnout while rewards and staff support helpdecrease that stress. By rewarding volunteersthrough being supportive of their achievementsin their work, volunteers may well be protectedfrom experiencing burnout. The only rewardthat did lessen burnout was that of a sense ofefficacy on the part of volunteers. Theresearcher concludes that although staff supportmay help ameliorate some burnout symptoms, amore realistic expectation of what their workentails would serve volunteers better. 4 figures,2 tables, 18 references. (HE9700074)182Collaboration as a Strategy for AcquiredImmunodeficiency Syndrome Prevention.Form:Journal article.Authors: Kavanagh, K.H.; Harris, R.M.;Hetherington, S.E.; Scott, D.E.Source: Archives of Psychiatric Nursing.6(6):33 1 339, December 1992.Abstract:Researchers report on a trainingproject, the Peer Counseling LeadershipTraining Program (PCLT), developed to test theefficacy of an AIDS prevention model based ona strategy of collaboration between groupparticipants called leader trainees andcoinvestigator/leaders, to promote culturallyacceptable behavioral alternatives aimed atreduction of risk for HIV infection. Nine blackwomen, participants in a methadonemaintenance program in Baltimore, Maryland,volunteered to attend and participate in a seriesof eight 2 hour sessions led by the fourcoinvestigators. A combination of quantitativeand qualitative research methods allowedtriangulation of data sources and analyticalperspectives.Quantitative data were collectedthrough use of instruments tested in an earlierstudy. The questionnaires investigated bothpersonal and community activities. Qualitativedata were collected through participant observation in all sessions, discussions of groupprocess, and field notes based on audiotapedpostgroup sessions. The PCLT aimed atchanging high risk sexual and drug use127Sexual Behaviorbehaviors through collaborative counselingfocused on incentives for positive change. Eachsession focused on discussion of a specificaspect of peer counseling and leadershiptraining, AIDS, and modeling of effectivecommunication and group facilitation skills.The results of the sexual and drug behaviorquestionnaires indicated that there was littleevidence of safer sex practices on the pretest,but there were positive changes on the posttest,with the greatest change in the increased use ofcondoms. On the posttest, each woman whocontinued to use intravenous drugs reportedeither cleaning her tools appropriately withbleach and water or using new needles.Otherwise, drug use practices apparently didnot change appreciably.Results of the PCLTindicate that this approach facilitates personalrisk reducing behavioral change, improved self esteem, and community based preventionefforts to promote behaviors that are assessed asbeneficial and feasible. 70 references.(HE9700057)183Community AIDS/HIV Risk Reduction:The Effects of Endorsements by PopularPeople in Three Cities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Kelly, J.A.; St. Lawrence, J.S.;Stevenson, L.Y.; Hauth, A.C.; Kalichman, S.C.;Diaz, Y.E.; Brasfield, T.L.; Koob, J.J.; Morgan,M.G.Source: American Journal of Public Health.82(11):1483 1489, November 1992.Abstract: To replicate, extend, and betterestablish the generality of a model ofintervention that trained popular opinion leadersin the gay community to serve as behavioralchange endorsers to their friends andacquaintances, researchers evaluated the modelsequentially in Biloxi, Mississippi, Hattiesburg,Mississippi, and Monroe, Louisiana, during1989 to 1991. The experimental design was amultiple baseline or sequential stepwise laggeddesign, in which (1) initial baseline survey datawere collected in all three cities; (2)intervention was conducted in the first city;(3) surveys were repeated in all cities followingthe first city intervention; and (4) interventionwas introduced in city two, and so on, untileach city sequentially received the sameintervention. To establish risk behavior levelsamong gay men, the researchers conductedanonymous surveys over three nights at the gaybars in each city. When they introduced theintervention into a community, they trainedeach bartender in that city's gay clubs toobserve people in the club over a1 week periodand to identify individuals who were mostpopular with gay men.Researchers consideredthese people to be popular opinion leaders andrecruited them for training. Opinion leadersattended four weekly 90 minute sessions inwhich the social skills they needed to serve asrisk reduction endorsers to their peers weretaught. Opinion leaders were taught how to (1)correct others' misconceptions concerning HIV/AIDS risk; (2) recommend to peers thestrategies needed to implement risk reduction;and (3) personally endorse the benefits,importance, and social acceptability of makingprecautionary behavioral changes. Trainingused didactic and group discussion methods,modeling of effective health promotionmessages, and extensive role playing. Eachopinion leader contracted to have at least 14conversations with peers; group sessionsreviewed and reinforced these efforts. Theresults showed that the intervention consistentlyproduced systematic reductions in thepopulation's high risk behavior of 15 percent to29 percent from baseline levels, with the samepattern of effects sequentially repeated in allthree cities.Researchers conclude that theresults support the utility of norm changing128Sexual Behaviorapproaches to reduce HIV risk behavior.4 figures,1 table,11 references. (HE9700053)184Effect of Peer Counselors on AdolescentCompliance in Use of Oral Contraceptives.Form:Journal article.Authors:Jay, M.S.; DuRant, R.H.; Shoffitt, T.;Linder, C.W.; Litt, I.F.Source:Pediatrics.73(2): 126 131, February1984Abstract:Researchers tested the effect of apeer versus nurse counseling program onadolescent compliance with oral contraceptives.Participants were 57 adolescent females aged14 to 19 years (55 blacks and 2 whites) residingin one of five federally funded housing projectsin Augusta, Georgia, and registered in the TitleV Children and Youth (C and Y) Project. Peercounselors were five adolescent females aged17 and 18 years from the C and Y Project; threefemale nurses aged 26 to 29 years working inthe C and Y Project served as the nursecounselors. The nurse counselor groupincluded 31 participants; the peer counselorgroup included 26 participants. Eachparticipant completed a pretest questionnairemeasuring demographic variables, medicalhistory, sexual activity and development, andsociopsychological variables (e.g., motivationfor seeking birth control, factors for predictingcompliance, autonomy, life crisis events, andadolescent life change). At the first visit,participants in both groups received one cycleof oral contraceptives and instruction on theiruse from either a peer or nurse counselor.Participants were followed up at 1 , 2, and 4months. At each follow up appointment,participants received further counseling andoral contraceptives and provided a urine sampleto be tested for the presence of a marker in theoral contraceptive capsule. Measures ofnoncompliance included (1) whether theparticipant became pregnant during theprevious month, (2) whether she missed herappointment, (3) whether she missed takingthree or more oral contraceptives during themonth, and (4) absence of urinary fluorescenceat the time of follow up. At the first and secondmonth follow ups, the participants in the peer counseled group had significantly lowernoncompliance than the nurse counselor group.At the month 4 follow up, a psychosocialindicator of hopelessness significantlyinteracted with the counseling groups' effect oncompliance. The use of peer counselors may bebeneficial in helping adolescents at high riskdeal with their hopelessness by providing themwith positive role models; in turn, this mayincrease their compliance with contraceptiveregimens.3 tables, 32 references.(HE9700095)185Nonprofit Sector's Response to the AIDSEpidemic: Community Based Services inSan Francisco.Form:Journal article.Author: Arno, PS.Source: American Journal of Public Health.76(11): 1325 1330, November 1986.Abstract: A health educator examines the roleof nonprofit, community based services inresponse to the AIDS epidemic in SanFrancisco, California. By the end of 1985, thereported number of AIDS cases in the city was1 ,63 1. The city government contracted servicesof public health education, risk reductionstrategies, psychosocial counseling, and homehealth care services to community basedorganizations, including the San FranciscoAIDS Foundation (SFAF), the Shanti Project,and Hospice of San Francisco. The SFAF,which works closely with the city health129Sexual Behaviordepartment, university scientists, and marketresearchers, provided (1) public healtheducation about AIDS through telephoneservices, educational events, mediaadvertisements, media relations, and materialdevelopment and distribution; (2) a privatelyfunded food bank; and (3) a social servicesprogram that facilitated access to governmentprograms including Social Security, GeneralAssistance, and Food Stamp programs. TheShanti Project provided counseling services anda housing program. Hospice of San Franciscoprovided home health and hospice care topersons with AIDS. The SFAF and ShantiProject relied heavily on volunteers, whom theyrecruited and trained. Each volunteer committeda specific amount of time to an organization. Atthe AIDS Foundation, volunteers were seen asstaff extenders; the paid professional staff wasprimarily responsible for the activities andvolunteers assisted in carrying them out. At theShanti Project, trained volunteers provided thebulk of the emotional support and practicalsupport services themselves.Outpatient andinpatient services for persons with AIDS at SanFrancisco General Hospital were integratedwith those provided by community basedgroups. The author concludes that community based organizations played a central role inresponding to the AIDS epidemic.6 tables,23 references. (HE9700094)130Injury and Violence186Approaches to Preventing Child Abuse:The Health Visitors Concept.Form:Journal article.Author: Kempe, C.H.Source: American Journal of Diseases ofChildren.130(9):941 947, September 1976.Abstract: The author recommends developinga national health visitors system as a strategyfor preventing child abuse.It is routine forchildren to have periodic health assessmentsthat include a standard history and physicalexamination. The author suggestssupplementing these with standardizedobservations in the prenatal, perinatal, andpostnatal care of families. The system wouldconsist of lay health visitors (or nurses whenavailable) who work with other healthprofessionals to ensure that all of the children'sbasic health needs are met by facilitating andensuring access to comprehensive health carefor all children, especially during their first 4years of life. The health visitors should besuccessful mothers who are able to share theirexperiences with less experienced youngfamilies and who will form a bridge betweenfamilies and the health care system. Thesehealth visitors would get to know the familiesduring pregnancy to establish a relationship andwould visit regularly, not only in the firstmonths of life but at least twice yearly in thesecond year of life and until the child reachesschool age. Health visitors should go into thehomes, weigh and measure the children,educate the family on health issues, and observethe family situation in order to determine whatproblems exist.Predicting and preventing childabuse is practical if standard observations aremade early. By prioritizing early intervention,children receive some protection frominappropriate parenting. The use of visitingnurses or indigenous health visitors is aninexpensive, nonthreatening, and efficientmethod of giving children the greatest possiblechance to reach their potential. 4 tables.(HE9700491)187Injury Prevention Program in an UrbanAfrican American Community.Form:Journal article.Authors: Schwarz, D.F.; Grisso, J.A.; Miles,C; Holmes, J.H.; Sutton, R.L.Source: American Journal of Public Health.83(5):675 680, May 1993.Abstract: The Philadelphia Injury PreventionProgram developed a model for a community based injury prevention project called the SafeBlock Project. The project was a cooperativeeffort of the Philadelphia Department of PublicHealth, the University of Pennsylvania Schoolof Medicine, the Children's Hospital ofPhiladelphia, and the Philadelphia CitizensAdvisory Board for Injury Prevention. Theproject was designed to improve injuryprevention knowledge and to reduce the numberof hazards in the home and the rate of injuryamong residents of a poor, inner city,predominantly African American community.The project combined several home injury prevention strategies and applied them tosituations in individual homes to lessen injuryrisks. Researchers assigned nine census tracts inthe target community to either the interventionor the control area. The intervention, carriedout by trained community outreach workers,consisted of (1) home modification for simpleinjury prevention measures, (2) homeinspection accompanied by information abouthome hazards, and (3) education about selected131Injury and Violenceinjury prevention practices. Approximately 12months after the intervention, researchersassessed random samples of the control andintervention homes for home hazards andinjury prevention knowledge. Results indicatedthat a significantly larger proportion ofintervention homes than control homes hadadopted injury prevention measures, such asfunctioning smoke detectors, syrup of ipecac,safely stored medications, and had reducedelectrical and tripping hazards. There were noconsistent differences on home hazards thatrequired major effort to correct.5 tables,12 references. (HE9301036)188What's New in Elder AbuseProgramming? Four Bright Ideas.Form:Journal article.Authors: Wolf, R.S.; Pillemer, K.Source:Gerontologist.34(1): 126 129,February 1994.Abstract:Health educators present fourmodels that address the common problemsfaced by community agencies dealing withelder abuse cases:a multidisciplinary caseconference team (San Francisco, California); avictim support group (New York City); avolunteer advocacy program (Madison,Wisconsin); and a master's degree adultprotective services track in social work(Hawaii).Information about these models wasobtained through a detailed process ofevaluation:(1) in depth interviews with each ofthe project coordinators conducted twice duringan 18 month period that addressed the historyof the project and its aims, major activities, anddistinctive features; (2) interviews with otherproject personnel; (3) interviews with staffmembers of the sponsoring agencies about theoverall impression of the project; and (4) atleast two site visits by the evaluation team toeach project to discuss daily operations. TheSan Francisco multidisciplinary team has ninemembers from various professions and settings,including case management, family counseling,civil law, geriatric medicine, and adultprotective services. Community agencies refercases to the team for various reasons, includingclarifying the individual agency roles, receivinghelp in handling a nontypical case, andobtaining legal and medical consultation notreadily available to them through other means.The Senior Advocacy Volunteer Program(SAVP) in Wisconsin interviews and trainsvolunteer advocates to pair with persons overage 59 years who had experienced or were indanger of experiencing abuse, neglect, or self neglect. Requests came from public and privateagencies that believed their clients wouldbenefit from having more frequent visitationand more emotional support than their staffcould provide. The Victim Support Group inNew York was open to persons over age 59years who were identified by agencies asvictims of abuse and neglect inflicted by afamily member.Participants reported that thegroup eased their sense of isolation, bufferedtheir feelings of victimization, and served as afamily for them. The master's level training inadult protective services in Hawaii providedstudents with an enriched placement programwith a full time field instructor who carefullymonitored and supported the students as theygradually took responsibility for cases. Theauthors concluded that factors in the success ofthe four models included urban location,support of the local adult protective servicesystem, and cooperation of agencies that forman elder abuse network. (HE9700099)132Mental Health189Career Escalation Training: Five YearFollow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Sainer, E.A.; Ruiz, P.; Wilder, J.F.Source: American Journal of Public Health.65(11): 1208 1211, November 1975.Abstract:In 1961, the Joint Commission ofMental Illness and Health recommended in itsfinal report, Action for Mental Health, thelaunching of a national staff recruitment andtraining program for professionals andsubprofessionals.It advocated thatsubprofessionals receive on the job training andthat educational opportunities be madeavailable for their career development. Thedevelopment of the community mental healthmovement was largely in response to thismandate. As community mental health centersproliferated, the gap between the demand formental health services and the existing staffsupply became increasingly evident. Anapproach to a solution of this problem has beento develop a new group of health workers calledparaprofessionals or indigenous workers. Onemental health program that employsparaprofessionals, or indigenous workers, is theLincoln Community Mental Health Center atYeshiva University in the Bronx, New York.The indigenous worker was defined as a typicalresident of an underprivileged area who washired to work for social and economicimprovement in the neighborhood. At thebeginning of the 5 year program, the centeremployed 58 community mental healthworkers. The major objectives of the programwere to have the workers acquire academiccredentials, enhance their career mobility, andto retain new mental health worker careerists inthe mental health field. Researchers followedtwo groups of community mental healthworkers at the center over a 5 year period:the1 8 workers who chose to enter a careerescalation program, and the remaining 40workers who did not enter the program forvarious reasons.Results showed that 12 of the18 individuals in the career escalation programdropped out over the 5 year period for variousreasons. The primary reason five of them leftwas the conflict between commitments to theprogram and family life.Others had increasingdemands at work or dropped out of the programbecause of academic problems.In the secondgroup, 17 of the 40 individuals who did notoriginally enter the program did so at laterdates. Three achieved degrees, and 10 otherswere still pursuing degrees.Individuals whoentered the career escalation program from bothgroups showed a high retention rate in themental health field, whereas those who neverentered the program did not.5 references.(HE9700325)190Community Oriented Program forTraining and Using Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Nicoletti, J.; Flater, L.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.ll(l):58 63, Spring 1975.Abstract: The authors developed andevaluated a community oriented program fortraining and using volunteers with the goals of(1) providing a training program for individualsvolunteering in the mental health profession, (2)providing an opportunity for the participants toapply their skills while assisting the center inmeeting the needs of the community, (3)providing college credit for the volunteers as anincentive for participation, and (4) providing a133Mental Healthmeans for the community to learn about andparticipate in the functioning of a communitymental health center. The participants consistedof1 1 females from the Arvada (Colorado)community who had contacted the center forthe purpose of offering their services asvolunteers. The volunteers ranged in age from24 to 40 years and had at least a high schooldegree. The community volunteer programconsisted of two portions:training andpracticum. Each session lasted 10 weeks, andthe volunteers received three college credits perportion through a local university. The trainingportion provided the volunteers with cursoryknowledge of the mental health field andvarious approaches used at the center. A largesegment of the training addressedcommunication skills and discrimination (i.e.,identification of the affect being expressed bythe client, the area of interaction in which thestatement occurred, and the effectiveness of thetherapeutic response) via the use of videotapesand role playing. The practicum involvedgiving the volunteers the opportunity toparticipate in the various programs conducted atthe center.Therapists supervised the volunteersduring the practicum portion. The authorsadministered a communication written scale, acommunication video role playing segment, awritten discrimination scale, and discriminationvideo segment to all participants before andafter the training. The practicum was assessedby rating scales developed for therapy andconsultation placements. The results of theevaluation support the effectiveness of trainingvolunteers in communication anddiscrimination.Posttest scores for thevolunteers showed significant change frompretest scores in the positive direction.Resultsimply that the use of volunteers can be extendedfrom clerical tasks into the area of interpersonalhelping. 4 tables, 4 references. (HE9700345)191Dilemma of Mental HealthParaprofessionals at Home.Form:Journal article.Authors:Miller, B.G.; Pylypa, J.Source: American Indian and Alaska NativeMental Health Research. 6(2): 13 33, 1995.Abstract: The authors present a preliminarymodel of the social placement of nativecaregivers and illustrate the implications of thatplacement for health care delivery. They applyan anthropological model of Coast Salishcommunity dynamics to the Swinomish TribalMental Health Project, which employs nativeparaprofessionals on Coast Salish reservations.The use of Native American communitymembers as lay health providers is complicatedby the nature of the social relationships withinthe community and by the way changes in theserelationships over time affect the provider'sability to be an effective helper.In Coast Salishcommunities, the core unit is the familynetwork. However, family membership isflexible and individuals can belong to severaldifferent family networks by activating differentkinship ties. For this reason, family networkcomposition changes over time as newmembers are recruited, old members decide todisaffiliate themselves, new families formaround one or more influential leaders, and oldfamilies lose their cohesion. Family networksappear to follow a fairly predictable cycle ofgrowth, maturation, and collapse. The twoways these changes affect the individual'saccess to health care are:(1) the size of anetwork affects the availability of kin to providesuch resources as care, transportation tofacilities, and emotional support, and (2) thesize and power of the network affects theindividual's relationship to, and identificationwith, tribal institutions that provide services. Atthe Swinomish Tribal Mental Health Project,134Mental Healththe counselor's ability to be an effective helperis affected not only by the personal relationshipbetween the counselor and client but also by therelationship between their respective familynetworks, the extent to which the counselor isregarded as the appropriate person to offerassistance, the client's willingness to shareprivate family matters with the counselor, andthe extent to which the family supports thecounselor client relationship.In addition, theclient counselor relationship is susceptible tochange as interfamily alliances and rivalriesdevelop and as family networks restructure overtime by moving through the cyclical process offormation, growth, and collapse. The successof native paraprofessionals as health providersin Native American communities requires anunderstanding of these issues. 30 references.(HE9700786)192Lay Mental Health Counseling:Prospectsand Problems.Form:Journal article.Author:Carkhuff, R.R.Source:Journal of Individual Psychology.24(l):88 93, May 1968.Abstract: The authors analyzed trainingprograms that employ lay personnel. Findingsindicated that after training, lay traineesfunction at levels as high or higher than doprofessional trainees on aspects of interpersonalfunctioning related to positive changes inclients.Interpersonal skills included empathy,respect, genuineness, concreteness, and self disclosure. The evidence suggests that both themeans and the intentions of prospective layhelpers are more humble and honest at thebeginning of training than are the means andintentions of prospective professional helpers.Lay trainees function at lower levels ofempathy, regard, and other facilitativedimensions at the beginning of training than doprofessional trainees. Following the brieftraining programs of lay personnel and theextensive programs of professionals, the initialdiscrepancy is reversed in favor of the layperson.Professional training programs are verycognitively oriented toward developingdiagnostic understanding and research skills.The lay training programs focus on sensitivitytraining, interpersonal skills, and changingpersonal attitude by emphasizing patientinvolvement and action.Professional programs,on the other hand, focus on affecting changesunrelated to counselee or trainee change. Datasuggest that trainers of professional personsfunction below a minimally facilitating level ofinterpersonal functioning, at levels equal to orlower than professional trainees at thebeginning of graduate training. Lay persons,with or without training and/or supervision,have patients who demonstrate change as greator greater than do the patients of professionalpractitioners. The professional helper all toooften focuses upon highly elaborate, highlycognitive treatment systems. The potentialcauses of these findings vary greatly. Theauthor concludes that whatever allows oneindividual to help another is not the sole andexclusive province of professional helpers.Increased use of lay personnel in inpatient andoutpatient treatment should take place. Theauthors suggest an elevation of theprofessional's role to one involving practice,training, supervision, consultation on preferredmodes of treatment, and research. Thedemonstrated efficacy of lay programs hasimplications for professional training.18 references. (HE9700339)135Mental Health193Linking Low Income Families toChildren's Mental Health Services: AnOutcome Study.Form:Journal article.Authors:Koroloff, N.M.; Elliott, D.J.; Koren,RE.; Friesen, B.J.Source:Journal of Emotional and BehavioralDisorders.4(1):2 11, January 1996.Abstract: Researchers evaluated anintervention designed to address barriers thatinterfere with access to children's mental healthservices for low income families. The approachinvolved the use of paraprofessionals calledfamily associates who served as advocates byproviding families with information, emotionalsupport, and help with such barriers as lack oftransportation and lack of child care for otherchildren. The intervention was implemented inthree Oregon counties; four other countiesserved as the control condition. The targetpopulation consisted of families with a childaged 4 to1 8 years who was referred for mentalhealth services through early and periodicscreening, diagnosis, and treatment. Familieswere included if the referred child was not in aninstitutional placement, the caregiver wasinvolved in managing the child's mental healthservices, and the child had attended no morethan three mental health service appointmentsassociated with the referral. The final sampleconsisted of 239 families, 96 of whom receivedthe family associate intervention and 143 ofwhom served as comparison families. Theintervention and comparison groups had similardemographic profiles. Upon referral,participants completed an initial researchinterview. Approximately 3 to 4 months later,they were interviewed again to collectinformation about mental health servicesreceived, satisfaction with those services,barriers to child mental health services, theextent to which the Family Associate helped toovercome the barriers, and changes in thefamily's sense of empowerment. Resultsshowed that the intervention group was morelikely than the comparison group to initiatechild mental health services; however, thegroups did not differ in their rates of attendanceor premature discontinuation of service. Theintervention families showed a modest butsignificant increase in empowerment at posttest.The researchers concluded that the familyassociate intervention can help families initiatechild mental health services and increase theirsense of empowerment. They recommendedthat future research explore the importance ofbarriers related to limited income and thestresses of daily living. 4 tables, 53 references.(HE9700785)194New Trends in Volunteer Services for theMentally Handicapped.Form:Journal article.Author:Naylor, H.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.22(4): 109 111, April 1971.Abstract: Many lay consumers of mentalhealth services and their volunteer advocatesnow participate in policy development andprogram planning. A study released by theNational Institute of Mental Health inNovember of 1969, Nonprofessional Personnelin Mental Health Programs, documented theways in which volunteers as well asparaprofessionals can supplement staffing ofmental health programs. Some of thesevolunteer functions include (1) caretaking, suchas feeding or escorting patients, (2) socialsustenance in the form of relationships withmentally ill or developmentally delayedindividuals, (3) professional assistance, and (4)bridging the gap between patients and136Mental Healthcommunity services.In addition to thesefunctions, advocacy is a major role of themental health volunteer. Concerned citizenscan make significant contributions as supportersand defenders of the mentallyill anddevelopmentally delayed. As a participatingcitizen and potential consumer, the volunteeradvocate can speak more freely than paid staffand can try to influence important decisionmaking. Volunteers, however, are not alwaysreadily accepted by professional staff. Mentalhealth professionals should recognize theimportance of volunteers, understand wherethey can be used, and be prepared to use themin an effective manner. (HE9700330)195Rural Mental Health Delivery System:Four Corners Community Mental HealthCenter, Price, Utah.Form:Journal article.Author: Anon.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(10):671 674, October 1975.Abstract: Community leaders and healthprofessionals established the Four CornersCommunity Mental Health Center insoutheastern Utah in 1972 to begin to try tobring comprehensive community mental healthservices to a vast, sparsely populatedmultiethnic region whose residents had noprevious experience with mental healthprograms. Culturally diverse communitiesincluded Native Americans (Navajos, Utes, andPiutes), Chicanos, and descendants of Greekand other southern Europeans. Because thestaff faced such obstacles as long distancesbetween patients' homes, cultural barriers, and amistrust of mental health programs, theydecided to establish a diverse system of mentalhealth care delivery that consisted of twocentral offices with nine satellite clinics. Thestaff also recruited 250 volunteers from thelocal communities to help handle the averagemonthly load of 600 outpatient visits, 100 day care patient visits, and 20 emergency visits.Cultural differences were a major problem forthe program because many Navajos did not trustoutsiders, hospitals, or mental health services.Therefore, staff members met with local tribalchairmen about the program and trained Navajowomen to serve as outreach workers in thecommunity.In dealing with the Chicanopopulation, staff also encountered a mistrust ofmental health centers, so the program staffprovided services through a Chicano cottage,which offered community services andactivities, as well as mental health services.Inthis way, the mental health services were moreintegrated into other community activities.Essentially, the staff's successful approach tothe center was to enter each community withoutreach workers and indigenous volunteers,find out what the people want, and then helpthem get it. (HE9700329)196Training of Paraprofessionals as BehaviorModifiers: A Review.Form:Journal article.Authors:Balch, P.; Solomon, R.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.4(2): 167 179, June 1976.Abstract: The authors reviewed the use andtraining of paraprofessionals serving asbehavior modifiers in the mental health field.The paraprofessional populations included (1)psychiatric aides and nurses, (2) collegestudents, (3) inpatients, and (4) community andindigenous workers. The studies illustrated thefrequent use of psychiatric aides and nurses asparaprofessional behavior modifiers. Earlytraining efforts primarily involved instructionson what to do with specific patients; later137Mental Healthreports indicated readings, lectures, anddiscussions as didactic instructional tools. Thestudies indicated that training of collegestudents as behavior modifiers appearedstrongly tied to didactic presentations, and wasoften offered in conjunction with college credit.The generalizability and utility of theseprograms was limited because of the selectioncriteria employed, use of a team approach, andthe considerable input of professional and stafftime. An important area for the use ofparaprofessionals as behavior modifiers was thetraining of community and indigenousvolunteers to function in the naturalenvironment.Studies in which volunteers weretrained included( 1 ) a group of volunteerstrained by Tharpe and Wetzel (1969) asconsultants to mediators in order to conductbehavior assessments, collect and organize data,and implement intervention strategies forbehaviorally disordered children; (2)community volunteers (public health nurses,public assistance workers, and private citizens)trained by Wahler and Erickson (1969) tofunction as behavior therapists in home andschool settings; (3) five groups of ethnicallydiverse volunteers working in child care centerstrained by Wetzel (1970) to implementbehavioral intervention strategies for children;and (4) a speech therapist trained by Laws,Brown, Epstein, and Hocking (1971) to modifythe inappropriate social behaviors of three boysenrolled in a day care remedial languageprogram. The studies suggested thatbehaviorally trained paraprofessionals had thepotential to work effectively with clients whowere often excluded from mental healthservices.Training techniques tended tominimize more academic procedures in favor ofinservice and on the job training formats. Theauthors concluded that a strong case could bemade for the administrative feasibility oftraining and using diverse groups ofparaprofessionals as behavior modifiers. Thelack of consistent, solid outcome evidenceprohibited a conclusion as to the effectivenessof these paraprofessionals.36 references.(HE9700332)197Use of Bilingual, BiculturalParaprofessionals in Mental HealthServices:Issues for Hiring, Training, andSupervision.Form:Journal article.Authors: Musser Granski, J.; Carrillo, D.F.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.33(1 ):5 1 60, February 1997.Abstract: To help refugees and immigrantsbridge language and cultural barriers andeducate communities about mental healthservices, agencies are recruiting bilingual andbicultural paraprofessionals to provideinterpreting services and perform outreachfunctions. The paraprofessional's role incommunity outreach involves educating anddisseminating information about mental health,advocacy, community organization, prevention,and initial assessment and referral. If membersof a particular culture are not familiar withmental health services and concepts, outreachworkers can educate them and help themovercome attitudinal barriers.In addition, theworkers can network with other agencies andindividuals and provide these referral sourceswith a directory of mental health providers whowork with populations who speak limitedEnglish. Another role for bilingual, biculturalworkers is interpreting in clinical settings.These workers can provide critical informationabout whether clients' words, attitudes, andbehaviors are considered normal and acceptablein their culture and can advise the therapistabout questions that might be perceived asoffensive or threatening. The authorsrecommend that, when hiring a bilingual,138Mental Healthbicultural paraprofessional, the agency shouldconsider cultural role expectations and theworker's fluency in both native and Englishlanguages, knowledge of the native culture, andsuch personal qualities as empathy, confidence,and respect for the client and the client'sconfidentiality. Other recommendationsinclude pay scales and career development forparaprofessionals. Adequate training is criticalso that the worker provides accurate, unbiased,and complete translations while interpretingduring therapy. In addition, the interpretershould be knowledgeable about mental healthterminology and concepts, basic counseling andinterviewing skills, and relevant ethical andlegal issues. The therapist may need to help theworker with such issues as transference,personal boundaries, and conflict between thecultural demands of the community and therequirements of the agency. The mental healthprofessional and bilingual staff can worktogether to meet the needs of the localcommunity and provide effective culturallyappropriate services. 27 references.(HE9700784)198Use of Paraprofessionals in CrisisIntervention: Evaluation of an InnovativeProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors:Getz, W.L.; Fujita, B.N.; Allen, D.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.3(2): 135 144, June 1975.Abstract: The authors examined the effect of asingle session mental health crisis interventionservice staffed by volunteer paraprofessionalsand situated in the emergency room of acommunity hospital. They also proposed andimplemented a model of program evaluationthat used service deliverers, e.g., crisiscounselors, as researchers. The University ofWashington supplied the majority of theprogram staff. The hospital is located in ametropolitan area of the northwest and serves aprimarily middle class, suburban cachementarea.Staffing for the program consisted ofwell trained graduate students and communityvolunteers. The 293 consecutive individuals incrisis who contacted the service from May 1971to March1 972 provided the initial sample. Thecrisis counselor/researchers gathered data fromclient intake reports completed by the crisiscounselor and from medical records. Theyfollowed up by telephone 6 to 12 months afterthe last client services contact. Follow up wascompleted for 39 percent of the sample.Ifpossible, the researcher who compiled the datafrom the intake was responsible for the followup. During follow up, researchers asked theclients to evaluate (1) the effectiveness of theservice, (2) the crisis counselor's use ofreferrals, (3) the major source of change in thecrisis situation, and (4) the improvement fortheir problem.Findings indicate that the effectof the program in all four evaluation areas wassignificant. There was no significant differencein client assessment of the helpfulness ofstudents and volunteers. The data support thenotion that timely intervention byparaprofessionals in crisis situations may havelasting effects on particular kinds of problems.The clients most significantly affected werethose with depression, anxiety, family discord,and suicidal problems. The use of crisiscounselors as researchers provided feedback tothe counselor directly from the consumer aboutthe kinds and quality of service received.5 tables, 7 references. (HE9700333)139Mental Health199Volunteers as Relationship Therapists forInstitutionalized Geriatric Patients.Form:Journal article.Authors:Eichler, M.; McCuan, L.R.;Berdit, L.Source: Mental Health and Society.3(3 4):212 222, 1976.patients and in challenging the stereotype thatonly professionals can effectively counsel.7 references. (HE9700323)Abstract: The authors conducted a 3 yeardemonstration project to train nonprofessionalvolunteers to carry out relationship therapy withemotionally disturbed geriatric patients at aBaltimore, Maryland long term care, elderlyhome and chronic disease hospital.Recruitment for the program includedannouncements in the volunteer organization,news articles in local papers, and brief radioand television spots. Researchers used the massmedia to recruit the widest range of possiblevolunteers. A psychiatric social workerconducted interviews with all the applicants andassessed their potential to effectively providecounseling. All applicants also completed awritten essay on life experiences. Volunteertraining consisted of weekly meetings of1 hourwith the program's psychiatrist director, as wellas1 hour per week of supervision by a socialworker. Midway through the training, thevolunteers received patients with whom theyworked on a one to one basis. During the3 years of the program, 25 volunteers wereapproved for participation and 17 actuallycompleted the training and began workingdirectly with patients. Because programs suchas the volunteer counselor service succeed onlyif the volunteer is both challenged andsupported, researchers were careful to provideadequate supervision and additional training tovolunteers and to carefully assess potentialcounselor patient personality combinations.The authors conclude that, overall, thevolunteer program was successful in helping140Substance Abuse200Effects of a Peer Counseled AIDSEducation Program on Knowledge,Attitudes, and Satisfaction of Adolescents.Form:Journal article.Authors:Rickert, V.I.; Jay, M.S.; Gottlieb, A.Source:Journal of Adolescent Health.12(l):38 43, January 1991.Abstract: A study examined the effects of apeer led versus adult led AIDS educationprogram on the attitudes, knowledge, andsatisfaction of adolescents with the educationprogram. The study recruited the sample of 82adolescents (55 female and 27 male, mean age15.8 years) from participants in community andchurch organizations. The study determinedparticipants' socioeconomic status by using theHollingshead Four Factor Index of SocialStatus; results suggested that participants werefrom low to upper middle class families. Thestudy selected nine adolescent peer counselors,based on their willingness to participate; peercounselors attended a 4 hour training session on2 consecutive days. The peer counselors weresix females and three males between the ages of14 and 18 from similar communityorganizations. All peer counselors andparticipants were white, to eliminate the effectof race. Health care providers experienced withAIDS acted as adult counselors.Researchersrandomly assigned adolescents to groups thatwere either led by peers, led by adults, orcontrol. The adult led group heard a lectureabout AIDS and viewed a videotape abouttransmission and prevention. The peer ledgroup received the same presentation.Subjectsin all three groups completed the AIDSKnowledge Questionnaire Revised, the AIDSAttitude Survey, and a measure of consumersatisfaction. Analyses of the surveys revealedthat the peer led and adult led interventions hada statistically significant effect on increasingknowledge about AIDS and heighteningattitudes toward practicing personal preventivebehaviors. Both the peer led and adult ledgroups had results superior to the controls.Adolescents counseled by peers engaged inmore interactive discussion following theeducational intervention than those counseledby adults. 28 references. (SA9100249)201Paraprofessional and ProfessionalTeamwork and Training in Managing PCPand Other Drug Abuse Problems.Form:Journal article.Authors: Chappel, J.N.; Smith, D.E.;Buxton, M.Source:Journal of Psychedelic Drugs.12(3 4):301 306, July December 1980.Abstract: The authors address the need forprofessional and paraprofessional teamworkand training in managing PCP and other drugabuse problems. They emphasize the need forcontinuing education and the difficulties inobtaining it, including (1) the excessiveformality, (2) limited or static models, and(3) negative attitudes. The authors also discussthe role of paraprofessionals in this area.Professionals and paraprofessionals must vieweach other as allies and share their skills inattempting to solve the complex problems ofPCP and other drug abuse. Methods used byparaprofessionals have not always been thosetaught by professional schools, but they haveproved very effective. The authors emphasizethe need for additional paraprofessional trainingto provide clinical skills to supplement theirstreet survival skills that have worked so well inalcohol and drug abuse programs. Ex addict141Substance Abusecounselors have been told that the treatment ofPCP abuse should be left in the hands offormally educated professionals. However, a1979 National Institute on Drug Abuse reportcompared professionals, counselors who had nodrug abuse problems, and ex addict counselorsin their job performance. No significantdifference was found in the clients' retention intreatment, criminality, or employment.Counselors' attitudes toward clients were verysimilar and program administrators viewed allthe counselors as competent, saw littledifference between the groups, and assignedclients without evidence of bias. The authorspoint out that many of the recommendedtherapies for drug addicts can be carried out aswell by paraprofessionals as they can be byprofessionals. Training activities should bebased on the principles of adult education. Theauthors outline the steps for organizing aneffective inservice training program. Theauthors state that the most effective clinicalproblem solving occurs when healthprofessionals and paraprofessionals worktogether with flexibility and mutual respect.22 references. (HE9700060)residential and outpatient settings for more than4,500 persons. Problems in achievingteamwork between paraprofessionals andprofessionals included (1) words and titlesdenoting recognition and positive and negativestatus, (2) power struggles betweenprofessionals and paraprofessional staff, (3) theneed for credit, (4) differences in the wayprofessionals and paraprofessionals approachthose they are trying to help, and (5) behaviorpatterns of professionals and paraprofessionalsthat may interfere with teamwork. Theproblems arose from a variety of sources, themost important of which include (1) feelings ofinsecurity, (2) feelings of inadequacy, (3) mythsand stereotypes, and (4) work stress. Solutionsthat have been useful in developing andpreserving treatment teams include (1) staffgroups, (2) inservice training, (3) education, (4)supervision, (5) treatment, and (6) evaluation.Overcoming the obstacles impeding effectiveteamwork and developing better treatmentservices requires ongoing effort and evaluation.2 tables, 20 references. (HE9700059)202Paraprofessional and ProfessionalTeamwork and Training in the Treatmentof Drug Dependence.Form:Journal article.Author: Chappel, J.N.Source:Journal of Psychedelic Drugs.12(2):123 129, April June 1980.Abstract: A psychiatrist describes theexperience of paraprofessional and professionalteamwork and training in the Illinois DrugAbuse Program (IDAP). IDAP was a formermultimodality, community based program withmore than 40 treatment units providingmethadone and abstinence services in142Title IndexThe numbers in this index refer to item numbers, not to page numbers.Activating Ideas: Promoting Physical Activity Among Older Adults. A Guide for Program Planners andVolunteer Leaders. 075Activity and Similarity in Safer Sex Workshops Led by Peer Educators. 130Alliances of Professionals and Paraprofessionals: Who Owns the Turf? (Editorial Response). OilApproaches to Preventing Child Abuse: The Health Visitors Concept. 186Arizona Education Program Develops Indigenous Health Manpower. 110Black Aged as Good Neighbors: An Experiment in Volunteer Service. 117Breast and Cervical Cancer Project in a Native Hawaiian Community: Wai'anae Cancer ResearchProject. 083Breastfeeding Promotion and Support: Peer Counselor Handbook. 145Breastfeeding Promotion and Support: Peer Counselor Training Manual. 146Bringing Providers to the People: Alaska and a Florida County Blaze New Trails in Non PhysicianCare Delivery. 012Burnout, Social Support and AIDS Volunteers. 181Can Home Visitation Improve the Health of Women and Children at Environmental Risk? 147Career Escalation Training:Five Year Follow Up. 189Changes in Empowerment:Effects of Participation in a Lay Health Promotion Program. 013Collaboration as a Strategy for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Prevention. 182Communication Skills Training for Paraprofessional Helpers. 131Community AIDS/HIV Risk Reduction: The Effects of Endorsements by Popular People in ThreeCities. 183Community Empowerment in Rural Health Care. 015Community Facilitator Implementation Manual. 016Community Health Advisor Program: Training Curriculum. 017Community Health Advocacy: Primary Health Care Nurse Advocate Teams in Urban Communities.018Community Health Advocates Training Guidebook. 148Community Health Aide Program: Health Care for Rural Alaska Natives by Rural Alaska Natives. 019Community Health Aides: How Effective Are They? 066Community Health Representatives: A Valuable Resource for Providing Coronary Heart Disease HealthEducation Activities for Native Americans. 095Community Health Worker: A Resource for Improved Health Care Delivery. 096Community Health Worker Programs: A Leadership Brief on Community Preventive Health. 020Community Health Workers:Integral Members of the Health Care Work Force. 001Community Health Workers: The Interface Between Communities and Health Care Systems. 021Community Health Workers: Who They Are and What They Do. 022Community Outreach and Community Mobilization: Options for Health at the U.S. Mexico Border. 002Community Representatives: New Directions in Education and Outreach. 023143Title IndexCommunity Based, Culturally Sensitive Education and Group Support Intervention for MexicanAmericans With NIDDM: A Pilot Study of Efficacy. 107Community Based Primary Health Care Program for Integration of Research, Practice, and Education.014Community Level Cancer Control in a Texas Barrio:Part I, Theoretical Basis, Implementation, andProcess Evaluation. 084Community Oriented Program for Training and Using Volunteers. 190Comparative Effectiveness of Professional and Paraprofessional Helpers. 067Conceptual Framework for Consideration in the Utilization of Health Aides. 003Coordinating a Volunteer Program. 052De Madres a Madres: An Access Model for Primary Care. 149De Madres a Madres: A Community, Primary Health Care Program Based on Empowerment. 150Developing a Hospital's Volunteer Program. 053Developing a Tool to Record Changes: Impact of EFNEP on Some Nutrition related Practices. 068Developing Capacities of Youth as Lay Health Advisors: A Case Study With High School Students. 132Development of a Paraprofessional Home Visiting Program for Low Income Mothers and Infants. 151Dilemma of Mental Health Paraprofessionals at Home. 191Economic Evaluation of Home Visiting Programs. 069Effect of a Cancer Screening Intervention Conducted by Lay Health Workers Among Inner CityWomen. 085Effect of Peer Counselors on Adolescent Compliance in Use of Oral Contraceptives. 184Effective Hospice Volunteers: Demographic and Personality Characteristics. 054Effectiveness and Efficiency of Indigenous Health Aides in a Pediatric Outpatient Department. 070Effects of a Peer Counseled AIDS Education Program on Knowledge, Attitudes, and Satisfaction ofAdolescents. 200Effects of Home Based, Informal Social Support on Child Health. 152Emergency Department Detection and Follow Up of High Blood Pressure. 097Enhancement of Individual and Community Competence: The Older Adult as Community Worker. 118Enhancing the Role of Community Health Workers in Research. 004Establishing Community Health Centers in Rural Appalachia Utilizing Lay Volunteers. 076Evaluating Training Programs for Paraprofessionals and Nonprofessionals. 024Evaluation of Modeling Role Playing and Lecture Discussion Training Techniques for College StudentMental Health Paraprofessionals. 077Evaluation of Prototype School Based Peer Counseling Program. 133Evaluation of Social Problem Solving Abilities in Rural Home Health Visitors and Visiting Nurses. 071Example of a Community Model for Comprehensive Stroke Services: The Harlem Regional StrokeProgram. 098Experiences in Systematic Training in a Rural Program for Elderly Mississippians. 119Factors in Achieving a Stable Group of Volunteers in a Mental Health Agency. 055Family Dynamics for Paraprofessional Workers. 025144Title IndexFamily Health Worker Revisited: A Five Year Follow Up. 026Friendly Visitor Program:Its Impact on the Social and Mental Functioning of the Elderly.1 14Guide to Written Training Materials for Home Visitors. 153Guidelines for African American Church Based Health Promotion. 099Guidelines for Older Person Volunteers. 120Health and Rehabilitation Manpower Strategy: New Careers and the Role of the IndigenousParaprofessional. 005Health Care and Community Action. 006Health Education as a Basis for Social Support. 121Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction. Volume V:Collaboration With Managed Care Organizations. 158Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume IV:Community Outreach. 157Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume III:Sustainability. 156Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume I:Consortia Development. 154Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume II:Early Implementation: Lessons Learned. 155Heart, Body, and Soul: Impact of Church Based Smoking Cessation Interventions on Readiness toQuit. 113Helping Beliefs Inventory as a Predictor of Volunteer Counselor Training Outcome. 027High Risk Vulnerable Populations and Volunteers: A Model of Education and Service Collaboration.007Home Health Visiting in Europe. 159Home Visitation for Pregnant Women and Parents of Young Children. 160Home Visiting: Analysis and Recommendations. 161Home Visiting and Prenatal Care: A Survey of Practical Wisdom. 162Home Visiting Programs and the Health and Development of Young Children. 163Home Visiting Programs for Families With Children Birth to Three: Results of a National Survey. 164Home Visiting With Families in Poverty:Introducing the Concept of Culture. 165Home Visits: Necessary But Not Sufficient. 166Homeless Prenatal Program: A Model for Empowering Homeless Pregnant Women. 167Hospice Caregiving:Strategies to Avoid Burnout and Maintain Self Preservation. 056How Peer Education Changed Peer Sexuality Educators' Self Esteem, Personal Development, andSexual Behavior. 134How To Guide of CURE/Heart, Body and Soul, Inc.: A People Work in Progress. 028Immunizing America's Children: A Model Workshop. 168Impact of a Planned Health Education Approach on the Control of Hypertension in a High RiskPopulation. 100Impact of Race on Volunteer Helping Relationships Among the Elderly.1 22145Title IndexImprovement of Community Health Services Through the Support of Indigenous Nonprofessionals. 029Improving Hypertension Detection and Referral in an Ambulatory Setting. 101Improving Referral Compliance After Public Cholesterol Screening. 102Increasing Participation in Health Promotion Among Older African Americans. 078Influence of a Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP) on Infant Nutrition in East Harlem.1 11Injury Prevention Program in an Urban African American Community.1 87Inside Home Visiting Programs. 169Intervention to Increase Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening in Low Income African AmericanWomen. 086Is Volunteering a Substitute for Role Loss in Old Age? An Empirical Test of Activity Theory. 123It's a 24 Hour Thing, a Living for Each Other Concept:Identity, Networks, and Community in anUrban Village Health Worker Project. 030Latino Health Advocacy Program: A Collaborative Lay Health Advisor Approach. 031Lay Health Advisor Intervention Strategies: A Continuum From Natural Helping to ParaprofessionalHelping. 008Lay Health Advisors: A Strategy for Getting the Word Out About Breast Cancer. 087Lay Home Visiting Programs:Strengths, Tensions and Challenges. 032Lay Mental Health Counseling:Prospects and Problems. 192Leadership for Primary Health Care. 033Linking Low Income Families to Children's Mental Health Services: An Outcome Study. 193Mobile Van Programs That Provide Immunization Services: A Compendium of Programs. 170Model Program for Providing Health Services for Migrant Farmworker Mothers and Children. 171Models That Work: Compendium of Innovative Primary Health Care Programs for Underserved andVulnerable Populations, 1996. 034Models That Work: The 1995 Compendium of Innovative Primary Health Care Programs forUnderserved and Vulnerable Populations. 035Narrowing the Gap in Health Status of Minority Populations: A Community Academic Medical CenterPartnership. 103National Community Health Advisor Study: Weaving the Future. 036Natural Helpers:Tools for Working With the Chronically Mentally 111 Elderly. 115Natural Helping Among Older Adults. 124Natural Helping Functions of Lay Health Advisors in Breast Cancer Education. 088Neighbor to Neighbor: Community Health Workers Educate Their Own. 079New Trends in Volunteer Services for the Mentally Handicapped. 194Nike Footed Health Workers Deal With the Problems of Adolescent Pregnancy. 172Nonobtrusive Interview Technique for Drug Abuse Program Follow Up. 037Nonprofit Sector's Response to the AIDS Epidemic: Community Based Services in San Francisco. 185Nurses' Role in Primary Health Care. 038Nutrition and Social Service Program for Older People: An Urban Model. 116146Title IndexOlder Rural Natural Helpers: Gender and Site Differences in the Helping Process. 125Older Volunteers: A Discussion of the Minnesota Senior Study. 126Older Volunteers Use and Learn Special Skills in Seven Model Health Projects. 127Paraprofessional and Professional Teamwork and Training in Managing PCP and Other Drug AbuseProblems. 201Paraprofessional and Professional Teamwork and Training in the Treatment of Drug Dependence. 202Parents of Children With Rheumatic Disease as Peer Counselors. 039Patient Care Training Program for Volunteers. 057Peer Counselor Training Program:Rationale, Curriculum, and Evaluation: An Initial Report. 135Peer Nutrition Education Programs on College Campuses. 136Peer Participation in Project Northland: A Community Wide Alcohol Use Prevention Project. 137Personal and Situational Determinants of Volunteer Recruitment for a Campus Hotline Program. 138Physician Assistant Training for Native Alaskan Community Health Aides: The MEDEX NorthwestExperience. 040Planning: The Key to a Successful Volunteer Program. 058Point of Diminishing Returns in Nutrition Education Through Home Visits by Aides: An Evaluation ofEFNEP. 072Por La Vida Intervention Model for Cancer Prevention in Latinas. 089Prenatal Education Outcomes for Pregnant Adolescents and Their Infants Using Trained Volunteers. 173Problem Based Strategies Promoting Community Transformation: Implications for the CommunityHealth Worker Model. 009Procedure for the Selection of Nonprofessional Workers. 041Programmatic Prevention of Adolescent Problem Behaviors: The Role of Autonomy, Relatedness, andVolunteer Service in the Teen Outreach Program. 139Psychosocial Differences Between Elderly Volunteers and Non Volunteers. 128Randomized Clinical Trial of Home Intervention for Children With Failure to Thrive. 073Reach to Recovery Program. 090Recruitment and Orientation of Older Volunteers in Extended Care. 129Recruitment and Training Issues From Selected Lay Health Advisor Programs Among AfricanAmericans: A 20 Year Perspective. 042Reducing Health Risks Through Peer Health Education: A Preliminary Report. 140Relationship Between Community Health Workers, the Health Services, and the Community. 010Review of Research on Home Visiting for Pregnant Women and Parents of Young Children. 174Role and Training of Health Education Aides. 043Role of Community Volunteers in Health Interventions: A Hypertension Screening and Follow UpProgram. 104Role of Parents and Older Peers in School Based Cardiovascular Prevention Programs:Implications forProgram Development. 105Role of the Community Health Aide in Rural Alaska. 044Role of Volunteers: What Educators Need to Know. 045147Title IndexRural Emergency Medical Volunteers and Their Communities: A Demographic Comparison. 059Rural Mental Health Delivery System: Four Corners Community Mental Health Center, Price, Utah.195Save Our Sisters Project: A Social Network Strategy for Reaching Rural Black Women. 091School Based Prevention of Teen Age Pregnancy and School Dropout: Process Evaluation of theNational Replication of the Teen Outreach Program. 141Skin Cancer Prevention: A Peer Education Model. 142Staffing Issues for Home Visiting Programs. 175Starting Point: Empowering Communities to Improve Health: A Manual for Training Health Promotersin Congregational Coalitions. 046Strengthening the Community: The Emerging Role of Outreach: A Manual for Outreach Workers. 176Tailoring Lay Health Worker Interventions for Diverse Cultures: Lessons Learned From Vietnamese andLatina Communities. 092Targeting High Risk Groups: Neighborhood Organization for Pediatric Asthma Management in theNeighborhood Asthma Coalition. 082Teens Teach Skin Cancer Prevention. 143Three Perspectives on Community Health Aides:Surveys of Health Aides, Consumers and Providers inWestern Alaska. 047Three Years Later: An Evaluation of Volunteer Training. 074Training Imperatives for Volunteers Caring for High Risk, Vulnerable Populations. 060Training of Paraprofessionals as Behavior Modifiers: A Review. 196Training of Telephone Crisis Intervention Volunteers. 061Training Outreach Workers to Serve American Indian Elders With Visual Impairment and Diabetes. 108Training Volunteers as Alcoholism Treatment Counselors. 062Understanding Volunteer Peer Health Educators' Motivations: Applying Social Learning Theory. 063Universal Home Visiting: A Recommendation From the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse andNeglect. 177Urban Church and Cancer Control: A Source of Social Influence in Minority Communities. 093Use of Aides in Preventing an Outbreak of Diphtheria in a Housing Project. 048Use of Bilingual, Bicultural Paraprofessionals in Mental Health Services:Issues for Hiring, Training,and Supervision. 197Use of Paraprofessionals in Crisis Intervention: Evaluation of an Innovative Program. 198Use of Volunteers in a Community Mental Health Center Emergency and Reception Services: AComparative Study of Professional and Lay Telephone Counseling. 064Using Health Education Aides in Counseling Pregnant Women. 178Using Lay Health Workers: Case Study of a Community Based Prenatal Intervention. 179Using Paraprofessionals in the Arkansas Health Education Programs. 080Utilization of Peers in a College Crisis Intervention Program. 144148Title IndexVISTA Means Vision: Three Winning Strategies for Training Diverse Outreach Workers. 049Volunteer Stress and Burnout:Issues for Administrators. 065Volunteers as Relationship Therapists for Institutionalized Geriatric Patients. 199Weight Management Practices of Black Paraprofessional Women. 112What's New in Elder Abuse Programming? Four Bright Ideas. 188Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module II:Cancer. 094Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module III:Heart Disease and Stroke. 106Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module IV:Diabetes. 109Women's Health Perspective in Primary Health Care: A Nursing and Community Health WorkerDemonstration Project in Urban America. 081Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module I:Introduction to Health and Wellness. 050Women's Wellness Sourcebook. Module V:Health Lifestyles. 051Working With Community Health Advisors as Part of the Community Health Team. 180149Author IndexThe numbers in this index refer to item numbers, not to page numbers.Adams, S.T. 031Alema Mensah, E. 085Allen, J.P. 139Allen, J.P. 141Allen, D. 198Alsup, P.A. 098Alsup, P.A. 096Altpeter, M. 087Andersen, R. 049Anderson, H. 143Anon. 195Ansell, D. 086Arfken, C. 082Arno,PS. 185Ashenfelter, W. 044Avery, A.W. 131Back, K. 158Baird, T. 153Baker, E.A. 031Balch, P. 196Ballweg, R. 040Banner, R.O. 083Barbarin, O.A. 118Barnes, M.D. 009Barnett, W.S. 069Bashshur, R. 047Bayer, I.S. 151Becker, D.M. 113Becker, A.B. 030Becker, D.M. 103Bedwell, D. 134Behrman, R.E. 161Bengen, B. 096Bengen, B. 098Berdit, L. 199Berenson Howard, J. 073Berkley Patton, J. 132Betts, N.M. 136Bird, J.A. 092Black, M.M. 073Bless, C. 038Bless, C. 018Bloom, F.B. 155Blumenthal, D.S. 085Boepple, P. 101Bone, L.R. 103Bone, L.R. 004Bone, L. 100Bone, L.R. 097Booker, V.K. 013Borbon, A. 036Bouldin,N. 031Bowen, M. 129Bowering, J.1 11Branch, G.B. 048Brasfield, T.L. 183Braun, H.J. 110Brown, S.A. 107Brown, C.P. 093Brown, R.H. 098Brownell, K.D. 105Brownstein, J.N. 036Brust, J. 098Bruun, B. 096Bruun, B. 098Bryan, S. 146Bryant, J.H. 021Burnett, M.F. 112Burns, J. 061Burt, A. 146Bustamante, A. 093Butler, P. 146Butz, A.M. 004Buxton, M. 201Caldera, D.L. 019Caldera, D. 044Caldwell, J. 054Callan, L.B. 003151Author IndexCalley, S. 109Calley, S. 051Calley, S. 106Calley, S. 050Calley, S. 094Calvert, G. 143Cameron, L. 028Camp, B.W. 041Campbell, R. 121Campo, M.C. 089Carkhuff, R.R. 192Carrillo, D.F. 197Carter Center, Interfaith Health Program. 046Cauffman, J.G. 066Cecil, C.E. 071Chai, K.T. 045Chalela, P. 084Challenor, B.D. 096Chambre, S.M. 123Chappel, J.N. 201Chappel, J.N. 202Chen, E. 086Cheng, X. 093Chenoweth, B. 121Child, R.C. 043Cleaver, V.L. 095Coates, R.J. 085Cohen, R.Y. 105Conn, R.H. 178Cooke, C.J. 104Cooper, P.W. 126Cortte, R. 040Cox, S. 156Cox, C. 102Crawford, J. 118Creighton, M. 101Cruz, L.N. 031Daniels, S. 044Danish, S.J. 024Davidhizar, R. 129Davis, D.T. 093Dawson, P. 152de la Torre, J. 084de Zapien, J.G. 179DeCambra, H. 083Deere, R.E. 080Dell, J. 086DeNardo, B.A. 039Diaz,Y.E. 183DiGilio, D.A. 075Dirtadian, A. 156Dixon, M.C. 061Donoso, G. 006Dorosin, D. 135Dorset, V.E. 098Drolet, J.C. 063Dubowitz, H. 073DuRant, R.H. 184Durham, M. 031D' Andrea, V. 135D'Augelli,A.R.024Earp, J. 087Efird, C. 162Eichelberger, C.I. 110Eichler, M. 199Elliott, D.J. 193Eng, E. 088Eng, E. 091Eng, E. 087Eng, E. 008Engelman, A. 118Enos, R. 083Ephross, PH. 072Fairbanks, J. 009Faulkner, A.O. 117Fawcett, S.B. 132Fehir, J. 150Felix, M. 105Ferketich, S. 015Finocchio, L. 001Fischer, V. 142Fischer, L.R. 126Fischer, V. 143Fisher, E.B. 082Fisher, M. 018152Author IndexFlahault, D. 010Flater,L. 190Flax, V. 087Fox, E.L. 080Friedman, D.B. 070Friedman, D.B. 066Friesen, B.J. 193Fujita, B.N. 198Furedy, R.L. 055Gabel, H. 077Gallion, K.J. 084Gantes, M. 018Gardner, K. 022Garza, I.R. 084Gatz, M. 118Gemple, N. 116George, K. 064Georgetown University Law Center, HarrisonInstitute for Public Law and CodmanSquare Health Center, Civic HealthInstitute. 020Getz, W.L. 198Giblin, P.T. 151Gillum, R.F. 101Goldstein, A.D. 041Gomby, D.S. 161Gonzalez, M. 031Goodman, C.C. 124Gotay, C. 083Gottlieb, A. 200Gotts, G.H. 027Grant, C.H. 144Green, L.W. 072Greenland, P. 102Grisso, J.A. 187Grubbs, J. 070Guernsey de Zapien, J. 036Gugenheim, A.M. 033Gunderson, P. 142Gunderson, P. 143Gurley, H. 097Gwinner, V. 157Ha, N. 092Halpern, R. 032Hamilton, L.W. 068Hammond, O.W. 083Hanes, B. 066Hanis, C.L. 107Harlan, C. 171Harlan, C. 008Harris, R.M. 182Harrison, D. 082Harsh, L. 130Hattie, J.A. 067Hauth,A.C. 183Hayes, A. 157Heagerty, P.J. 113Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition,Immunization Education and ActionCommittee. 168Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition,Immunization Education and ActionCommittee. 170Heasley, D.K. 068Hedlund, N. 083Helm, C.J. 144Henning, M. 094Henning, M. 050Henning, M. 109Henning, M. 051Henning, M. 106Herre,K. 139Hetherington, S.E. 182Hickey, J.C. 127Hildreth, N.G. 102Hill, M.N. 004Hobgood, J. 043Hodge, J.M. 140Hoggson, N. 141Hogue, J.1 16Hollis, R.M. 030Holmes, J.H. 187Horacek, T.M. 136Howland, L. 093Hubble, K.O. 144Hummel, J. 040153Author IndexHunter, K.I. 128Hutcheson, J. 073Hutchinson, K. 167Hutchison, R.R. 007Hutchison, R.R. 060Hutten, D. 156Hutten, D. 157Ingram, M. 036Irvin,Y.018Israel, B.A. 030Issell, B.F. 083Jacks, R. 135Jackson, T. ed. 051Jackson, K. 167Jackson, T. ed. 106Jackson, T. ed. 050Jackson, T. ed. 109Jackson, T. ed. 094Jackson, E.J. 042Jay, M.S. 184Jay, M.S. 200Jessee, P.O. 071Jodaitis, N. 031Joffe, M.S. 158Johns, L. 132Johnson, S. 036Johnson, D. 146Johnston, G. 133Jones, M.E. 173Kahn,A.J. 159Kalichman, S.C. 183Kamerman, S.B. 159Kaplan, R.M. 089Kavanagh, K.H. 182Kay, B.J. 013Kelly, N.J. 027Kelly, J.A. 183Kempe, C.H. 186Ketzer, J.M. 140Kilcoyne, M. 098Kilcoyne, M.M. 096Kim, S. 133Kirschner, C. 055Kitzman, H. 174Kitzman, H. 147Klein, N.A. 063Knittel, R.E. 043Koch, E. 036Komro, K.A. 137Koob,J.J. 183Koren, RE. 193Koroloff, N.M. 193Kotula, K. 146Kranz, P. 101Krugman, R.D. 177Kuperminc, G. 139Lacey, L. 086Lammers, J.W. 080Lappe, K. 143Lappe, K. 142Larner, M. 032Larson, C.S. 161Larson, K. 171Larson, E. 040Lasco, M.L. ed. 050Lasco, M.L. ed. 051Lasco, M.L. ed. 106Lasco, M.L. ed. 109Lasco, M.L. ed. 094Legion, V. 022Lenoski, E.F. 070Leslie, J. 001Levine, D.M. 113Levine, D.M. 100Levine, D.M. 103Levine, D.M. 097Lewit, E.M. 161Liff, J.M. 085Lightsey, D. 156Lightsey, D. 157Linder, C.W. 184Linn, M.W. 128Linton, K. 051Linton, K. 050154Author IndexLinton, K. 109Linton, K. 106Linton, K. 094Lipscomb, W.R. 037Litt,I.F. 184Loosli, M. 106Loosli, M. 051Loosli, M. 050Loosli, M. 094Loosli, M. 109Lott, L. 122Love, M.B. 022Lowell, M.E. 031Lowenberg, R.L. IllMaiman, L.A. 102Mamon, J. 097Manohar, V. 062Maslanka, H. 181Matsunaga, D.S. 083May, K.M. 015Mayne, L. 087McAlister, A. 084McCann, T. 157McCann, T. 156McCoy Thompson, M. 155McCoy Thompson, M. 156McCoy Thompson, M. 154McCuan, L.R. 199McElmurry, B.J. 033McElmurry, BJ. 018McElmurry, B.J. 081McElmurry, B.J. 014McFarlane, J. 150McFarlane, J. 149McLennan, J.R 027McLeod, J.H. 133McNicholas, L. 089McPhee, S.J. 092Meister, J.S. 179Meister, J.S. 002Meister, J. 036Mendelson, C. 015Meyers, A. 104Miles, C. 187Miller, C.A. 162Miller, B.G. 191Miller, B. 065Misner, S. 033Mitchell, R.E. 118Mondy, L.W. 173Montgomery, A. 018Moran, J.A. 118Morgan, M.G. 183Morlang, B. 146Morris, F.J. 076Morrison, M.A. IllMorrow, G. 049Morrow Howell, N. 122Mueller, D.P. 126Mulligan, M.A. 114Munro, J. 082Murphy, M.J. 068Murphy, M.A. 029Murphy, D. 038Murphy, D. 018Musser Granski, J. 197Nagelberg, D.B. 140Najera,L.G. 013Nanda, J. 097Navarro, A.M. 089Naylor, H. 194Neville, J. 146Nicoletti, J. 190Noji, E.K. 097Norr, K. 018Norr, K. 014Ogren, E.H. 025Ohio Department of Health, Commission onMinority Health. 148Ohio Department of Health, Ohio InfantMortality Reduction Initiatives Program.176Olds, D.L. 174Olds, D.L. 147Olds, D.L. 160155Author IndexOrr, A.L. 108Osborne, O. OilOtero Sabogal, R. 092Ovrebo, B. 167Ozawa, M. 122O'Donnell, J.M. 064O'Neil, E.H. 001Paine Andrews, A. 132Paradis, L.F. 065Parker, S.L. IllParker, E. 008Parks, C.P. 042Patrick, P. 056Patterson, S.L. 125Pearse, D.T. 074Peoples Sheps, M.D. 162Perino, S.S. 172Perry, C.L. 137Pettinelli, V.D. 052Philliber, S. 141Philliber, S. 139Phillips, C.W. 086Pillemer, K. 188Pinciaro, P. 134Pohlman, C. 153Poland, M.L. 151Poslusny, S. 033Powell, D.R. 169Pryor, J.B. 130Pylypa, J. 191Quam, J.K. 115Quartaro, E.G. 060Quartaro, E.G. 007Quick, R. 047Rader, D. 133Rael, R. 036Ramey, S.L. 163Ramey, C.T. 163Ramirez, A.G. 084Ramirez, V. 084Ratcliff, R. 095Reames, B. 112Reding, D.J. 142Reding, D.J. 143Reeder, G.D. 130Reim, G. 011Richter, R.W. 098Richter, R.W. 096Rickert, V.I. 200Rinehart, M.E. 090Rivett, S. 050Rivett, S. 094Rivett, S. 109Rivett, S. 106Rivett, S. 051Roberts, R.N. 164Robinson, J.L. 152Robinson, J.G. 013Rogers, B. 095Rogers, H.J. 067Roppe, B. 089Rosenthal, E.L. 036Ross, M.J. 057Rudner, N. 180Ruiz, P. 189Runnion, V.M. 065Rutar, J. 136Ryan, M. 167Sainer, J. 120Sainer, E.A. 189San Diego County Department of HealthServices, Division of Public HealthEducation. 023Savage, E.W. 093Sawyer, R.G. 134Schaller, J.G. 039Schulz, A.J. 030Schwarz,D.F. 187Scott, J.P. 054Scott, D.E. 182Seifer, S.D. 001Senn, K.L. 089Shafer, S.Q. 098Sharpley, C.F. 067156Author IndexSheaffer, L. 153Sherer, J.L. 079Sherer, J.L. 012Shoffitt,T. 184Slaughter Defoe, D.T. 165Sloan, J.L. 037Smiciklas Wright, H. 068Smith, J. 088Smith, R.T. 005Smith, D. 026Smith, D.E. 201Solomon, H.S. 101Solomon, R. 196Sondag, K.A. 063South Carolina Department of Health andEnvironmental Control. 099St. Lawrence, J.S. 183Stamm, K. 084Starr, R.H. 073Stebulis, J.A. 039Stevenson, L.Y. 183Stewart, G. 013Stillman, F.A. 113Strunk, R.C. 082Sues, A.M. 053Sung, J. 085Sussman, L.K. 082Sutton, R.L. 187Swank, R.T. 113Swider, S.M. 018Swider, S.M. 014Swider, S.M. 081Sykes, R.K. 082Sylvia, S. 082Tamasabi, S. 050Tamasabi, S. 051Tamasabi, S. 106Tamasabi, S. 094Tamasabi, S. 109Tate, M. 146Teevan, K.G. 077Thompson, A.M. 059Tirado, N. IllTorres, I. 031Torres, M. 031Torrey, E.F. 026Tripp, M. 049Trocchio, J. 058Tsark, J.A. 083Tucker, L.B. 039Turner, J.R. 138Tyler, F.B. 118Tyska, C. 033University of Southern Mississippi, Center forCommunity Health. 016University of Southern Mississippi, Center forCommunity Health. 017US Department of Health and Human Services,Health Resources and ServicesAdministration, Bureau of Primary HealthCare. 035US Department of Health and Human Services,Health Resources and ServicesAdministration, Bureau of Primary Care.034Van Doorninck, W.J. 152Vanneman, J. 155Veblen Mortenson, S. 137Viadro, C.I. 087Vincus, A.A. 087Vinson, N. 038Virginia Department of Health, Division ofPublic Health Nutrition, Virginia WIC PeerCounselor Program. 145Voorhees, C.C. 113Walker, P.W 057Waller, J.B. 151Walrath, J.M. 097Wang, V.L. 072Warburton, E.A. 066Ward, E. 097Warrick, L.H. 179Wasik,B.H. 164Wasik, B.H. 175157Author IndexWasik, B.H. 153Watkins, E.L. 171Weiss, H.B. 166White, M.1 10White, K. 146Whitman, S. 086Wiggins, N. 036Wilder, J.F. 189Williams, J.E. 085Williams, M.P. 078Williams, L. 119Williams, C.L. 137Wilson, P.A. 053Wingert, W.A. 066Wingert, W.A. 070Wirzbicki, P.J. 118Wise, H. 026Witmer,A. 001Wolde Tsadik, G. 093Wolf, R.S. 188Wood, A.H. 179Wright, B. 157Young, B.W 157Young, B.W 156Young, S. 171Zander, M. 120158Subject IndexSelected subject terms are from the Health Promotion and Education Thesaurus.The numbers in this index refer to item numbers, not to page numbers.ACCIDENT PREVENTION.187ACCREDITATION.11ACCREDITATION. 45ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCYSYNDROME.18, 34, 51,181 183, 185, 200ADHERENCE (BEHAVIOR).100, 102ADMINISTRATION.52 53, 58, 175ADOLESCENT PARENTS.146, 172ADOLESCENT PREGNANCY.18,139,141, 173ADOLESCENTS.23, 76, 105, 132 133, 136 137, 139, 141, 145, 173, 184, 200ADULT EDUCATION. 57ADULTS. 57,75 76ADVOCACY.8 9, 14, 18, 22, 26, 30 31, 36,38 39, 50, 73 79, 87, 193 194AGE FACTORS.83, 88, 91, 129, 139, 141,181ALABAMA. 71ALASKA.12, 19, 40, 44, 47, 57ALASKA NATIVES. 19, 44ALCOHOL EDUCATION.137ALCOHOL EDUCATION PROGRAMS.137ALCOHOL USE.137ALCOHOLICS. 62ALCOHOLISM.62, 103ALLIED HEALTH PERSONNEL.3, 5, 12,19, 29, 37, 40, 44, 56, 61 62, 67, 70, 72, 79, 95,110, 117, 120, 131, 151, 178, 192, 196, 198,201 202AMBULATORY CARE.70, 101AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY.90, 142AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION.110ANTHROPOLOGY.191APPOINTMENT KEEPING BEHAVIOR.97, 101, 173, 193ARIZONA.13, 15, 110, 179ASIAN AMERICANS.92, 148ASTHMA. 82ATTITUDE CHANGE.72, 92ATTITUDE DETERMINATION. 13, 27, 130,133, 162ATTITUDES.27, 30, 43, 92 130, 192, 201ATTITUDINAL BARRIERS.197159Subject IndexAUDIOMETRIC TESTING. 76AUDIOTAPES.64, 131AUSTRALIA. 27BARRIERS. 1 2, 12, 22, 40, 53, 79, 84, 87 89,91, 145 146, 168, 195,201 202BARRIERS TO SEEKING TREATMENT.151, 193BEHAVIOR CHANGE.3, 51, 72, 85, 87, 92,100, 112 113, 134, 150, 183, 187BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION. 51,196BEHAVIORAL RISK FACTOR SURVEYS.83,95BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES.100BILINGUAL EDUCATION. 197BIRTH WEIGHT.147BLACKS.18, 26, 28, 38, 42, 54, 66, 71, 78,81 82, 85 88, 91, 93, 98 99, 100, 103, 112 113,117 119, 122, 165, 167, 180, 182, 184, 187BLINDNESS.108BLOOD GLUCOSE.107, 109BLOOD PRESSURE.76, 100 101, 105BODY SIZE.73, 112BOOKLETS AND PAMPHLETS.28, 76,89,91, 142, 168, 170BREAST CANCER.18, 76, 83 92, 94, 145 146BREAST SELF EXAMINATION.76, 83, 85BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYPARTICIPATION. 34CALIFORNIA.22 23, 48, 66, 89, 92 93, 116,167, 185, 188CAMPS. 82CANCER. 89,94CANCER DETECTION.76, 83, 86 88, 91,93CANCER EDUCATION.86, 88 89, 91, 93,142 143CANCER EDUCATION PROGRAMS. 92CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES ANDDISORDERS.76, 96CARDIOVASCULAR RISK FACTORS.15,95, 105 106CAREGrVERS.12, 53, 56, 65, 79, 115, 122 126, 129, 181CENSUS DATA. 59CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROLANDPREVENTION.8CEREBROVASCULAR DISEASES ANDDISORDERS. 96CERVICAL CANCER.83 86, 89, 92 93CESAREAN SECTION.145CHILD ABUSE.147,153,186CHILD CARE.19, 172160Subject IndexCHILD DEVELOPMENT.73, 147, 153,163 164, 172, 186, 194CHILD HEALTH SERVICES.32, 66, 69,145, 147, 152, 154, 146 157, 159 161, 163 166,169, 174 175, 177, 186CHILDBIRTH.145CHILDREN.6, 39, 48 49, 66, 69, 73, 153,161, 163, 165 166, 168 169, 171, 174 177, 193CHOLESTEROL.102, 106CHOLESTEROL SCREENING. 76CHRONIC DISEASES AND DISORDERS.78CHURCH PARTICIPATION. 46, 91, 93, 99,113CLASSROOM ACTIVITIES.137CLIENT CENTERED COUNSELING.51,94, 106, 109CLINICAL BREAST EXAMINATION.83,85 86CLINICS.19, 26, 44, 57, 62, 101, 151 152COALITION BUILDING. 1, 9, 34, 16, 46,82, 88, 154 156, 197COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT.73, 161COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICES.140COLLEGE STUDENTS.63 64, 77, 130 131,134 136, 138, 140, 144, 196COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.7,33103, 130 131, 144 135, 138, 140, 144COLORADO. 190COLORECTAL DISEASE. 94COMMUNICABLE DISEASES.17, 48, 200COMMUNICATION CHANNELS.11,52,92, 98, 102, 119, 135, 138, 194 195, 199COMMUNICATION SKILLS.25, 50COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES.70, 91,131COMMUNICATION STRATEGIES.91COMMUNITY ACTION.9, 17,99COMMUNITY COORDINATION.36, 137COMMUNITY HEALTH DIAGNOSIS.12,15, 70, 79, 97COMMUNITY HEALTH EDUCATION.1,2, 6, 7, 9 10, 14 18, 20 21, 23 24, 28, 32 33,34, 38 39, 41, 43, 46 48, 70, 73, 76, 79, 81 8285 86, 90 92, 99, 103, 107 108, 113, 118, 148 149, 153, 160, 167 168, 170 171, 176, 180,184 185, 181 188, 193, 195COMMUNITY HEALTH EDUCATIONPROGRAMS.1, 14 18, 20, 28, 33 34, 38, 42,73, 76, 78 80, 82, 84, 87, 88 89, 92, 98, 100,104, 119, 137, 149, 153 154, 155 157, 179, 191COMMUNITY HEALTH PLANNING.2, 4,6, 9 10, 12 13, 17, 19,21, 103, 110, 115, 118 119, 121, 124,150, 152, 158, 160, 161, 163 166, 169, 171, 174 175, 179, 184 186, 188 189,194 195COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES.2, 4,6 8, 21 22, 29 32, 35, 40 42, 44, 47, 55, 66, 69,70, 79, 80, 86, 90, 96 97161Subject IndexCOMMUNITY LEADERS.9, 88COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS.46,104, 122 123, 135 126, 129, 154, 181, 185, 188COMMUNITY ORGANIZING. 2,9,15 17,155 156COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION.2, 6 8,10, 13, 15, 17, 21, 29, 30, 31, 42, 46, 53, 58, 66,75, 82 83, 88, 98, 104, 115, 122 126, 129, 150,154 156, 181, 188, 190COMMUNITY RESOURCES.6 8, 10, 12 13, 21, 30 31, 35 36, 41 42, 55, 70, 79, 88, 90,101, 118, 155 157, 185, 194 195COMMUNITY STUDIES. 22COMMUNITY WORKERS.3,5 8,10 13,19, 21 22, 26, 30 31, 39 44, 47 48, 53, 55 56,59 60, 64 65, 67 68, 70 72, 79,80 81, 83, 90 91,97 98, 100 102, 110, 115 118, 122 126,129, 144, 148 150, 157, 167, 171, 178, 180 185, 188 189, 194 195, 199, 201 202COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS.1 1 , 4 1 , 54, 64,67,71,89,93,105, 112 113, 118,128,131,135, 138 139, 141 142, 193CONDOMS. 130, 182CONFLICT RESOLUTION. 38CONNECTICUT. 39CONSUMER PARTICIPATION.154CONTINUING EDUCATION. 201CONTINUING EDUCATION. 46CONTRACEPTION. 176COOKING TECHNIQUES. 68COOPERATIVE EXTENSION SERVICE.80COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS.53, 69, 75COST CONTAINMENT. 20COST EFFECTIVENESS.69, 72, 104,1 16,158COSTS OF SCREENING. 86, 91COUNSELING. 27,29,61,64,67,77,91,102, 145 146, 172, 178, 184 185, 192, 197,199COUNSELORS. 62,67, 145 146, 191, 199COURSE DEVELOPMENT.25CRIME.18CRISIS INTERVENTION.114, 144, 198CRISIS INTERVENTION. 29,61,64,77CULTURAL INFLUENCES.107CULTURAL INFLUENCES.2, 7, 23, 31 36,44, 50, 60, 70, 83 85, 87, 89, 92, 148, 165, 182,189, 191, 195, 197CURRICULA.6, 9, 17, 105, 110, 141, 172CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT.108,121DATAANALYSIS.113, 118, 128, 141 142,173DATA COLLECTION. 37,48, 126, 138, 141 142, 198162Subject IndexDATABASES. 14, 20DAY CARE CENTERS. 168DEATH. 54, 56, 65DEMOGRAPHIC STUDIES.54, 59, 84, 89,125, 128, 139, 141DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.14, 34,81,91, 107, 127154 155, 188DENMARK. 159DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 68DEPRESSION. 128, 198DEVELOPING NATIONS. 6, 10, 21, 81DIABETES EDUCATION. 107, 109DIABETES MELLITUS.15, 76, 103, 108 109DIARRHEA. 6DIET.6, 68, 72, 105, 109, 112, 171DIETARY ASSESSMENT. 68DIETARY GUIDELINES. 68DIETITIANS.110DIRECTORDZS.35, 170DISEASE PREVENTION.32, 84, 89, 102 103, 147, 150, 160, 200DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 178DOMESTIC VIOLENCE. 18, 38DRUG ABUSE. 176, 201DRUG ADDICTION. 201 202DRUG USE. 182EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION. 163EATING BEHAVIOR.51, 105ECOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE. 165ECOLOGICAL PERSPECTIVE. 30 31EDUCATIONAL AIDES.68, 111EDUCATIONAL FACTORS. 139, 189EDUCATIONAL METHODS.24 25, 32, 46,77, 89, 100, 150, 160, 187, 201ELDER ABUSE. 188ELDERLY PERSONS.54, 48, 73, 75, 78, 91,108, 114 121, 188, 199ELEMENTARY SCHOOL STUDENTS.105, 142 143ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.105EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.1 9,44, 59, 97, 100, 198EMPLOYEES. 52EMPLOYERS. 22EMPLOYMENT.1, 5, 13, 15 18, 22, 31, 38,46, 167, 193EMPOWERMENT .9ENGLAND. 159163Subject IndexEPIDEMIOLOGY.21, 103ETHICAL ISSUES. 7ETHNIC GROUPS.12, 15, 18 20, 22 23, 26,31, 38, 40, 44, 47, 54, 66, 79, 82, 84, 89, 92 93,107, 110, 113, 122, 149, 150, 171, 180, 191,195, 197EUROPE. 159EVALUATION.3, 13, 17, 30, 31, 42 43, 45,64,67, 112 144, 151, 167EVALUATION METHODS. 68EXERCISE.75, 105, 107, 112EXPECTANT PARENT EDUCATIONPROGRAMS. 173EYE DISEASES AND DISORDERS.108FACILITATORS.9, 137FAMILIES.6, 25 26, 32, 56, 58, 65, 68 69,73, 152 153, 159 161, 163 166, 169, 174 175,186, 191FAMILY PARTICIPATION INTREATMENT. 39, 115, 124, 191FAMILY PLANNING. 6,79, 173, 184FAMILY SUPPORT. 69 70, 115, 124, 153,159, 161, 163, 165 167, 169, 174 175, 177, 191FARMERS. 13, 34, 143FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.19,177FEMALES. 49 51, 71 72, 81, 83 89, 91 94,106, 109, 112,149 152, 160, 162, 167, 173,176, 178 179, 182, 184, 190FIELDWORK. 72FIRST AID. 18,76FLORIDA. 12, 13, 128FOCUS GROUPS. 30, 63, 78, 89, 91FOLK MEDICINE. 148FOLLOW UP OF SCREENING. 91,100,102FOOD. 68FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS. 116FOODSERVICE. 116FOOD SERVICE PERSONNEL. 116FUNDING.1, 19 20, 28, 4, 75, 156 157, 185GAMES AND SIMULATIONS. 137GEORGIA.46, 78, 184GERONTOLOGY. 121GRADUATE STUDENTS. 198GREAT BRITAIN. 159GRIEF. 145GROUP COUNSELING. 107GROUP DISCUSSION.25, 33,105, 116, 130,141GROUP DYNAMICS. 25,74, 120GUIDELINES.16, 99, 120, 142164Subject IndexHAITIAN AMERICANS. 171HARD TO REACH PUBLIC.3, 13, 30, 34,36, 42, 68, 147, 179HAWAII. 83, 188HAZARDS. 187HEALTH BEHAVIOR.32, 184, 89, 102 103,106, 112, 147, 151, 160, 162, 186, 187,200HEALTH BELIEFS. 103, 148HEALTH OCCUPATIONS.5, 12, 40, 56, 65,67,70,79, 101, 110HEALTH OFFICERS. 96HEALTH PERSONNEL.8, 42, 56, 65, 151,165, 175, 200HEALTH PLANNING. 3, 91HEALTH PROFESSIONALS.4, 11, 41, 64,67, 189, 194 195, 199,201,202HEALTH CARE DELIVERY.1, 4, 8, 12 13,18, 20, 22, 24, 30 31, 34, 42, 69, 79, 82, 103,157 159, 161, 163, 165 166, 169, 174 175, 177,191, 197HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.54, 97 98119HEALTH CARE MARKETING. 158HEALTH CARE SERVICES.5, 12, 22, 35,79,81,121,159HEALTH PROMOTION.3, 17, 22, 24, 31 21, 75, 79, 81, 99, 103, 147, 150, 160, 162, 164,v79, 186 187HEALTH RISK APPRAISAL.15,140HEALTH SERVICE ACCESSABILITY.1,2, 5 6, 10, 14, 18 22, 33 35, 44, 47, 49, 82, 87,97, 118, 148 151, 153, 171, 193, 197HEALTH SERVICE UTILIZATION. 1 2,21,87, 148, 150 151, 186HEALTH EDUCATION NEEDS. 7,21,39,47,67,90,96, 110, 184,200HEALTH EDUCATION OBJECTIVES. 9596HEALTH EDUCATORS.3, 26, 44, 48 49,63,91,96, 173, 178HEALTH FAIRS. 15, 23HEALTH MAINTENANCEORGANIZATIONS. 158HEALTH MESSAGES. 183HEALTH SYSTEMS AGENCIES. 7HEALTH VALUES. 96HEALTH VISITORS.8, 26, 42, 71, 157HEALTHY EDUCATION NEEDS. 6HEART DISEASES AND DISORDERS. 15,95, 106HIGH RISK BEHAVIOR182 183,197HIGH RISK GROUPS.1, 7, 60, 100, 132,162, 176, 179HEALTH MESSAGES. 68HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS. 132 133, 141 143165Subject IndexHIGH SCHOOLS. 132 133, 139HISPANIC AMERICANS.15, 18, 20, 26, 31,38, 54, 66, 79, 81, 84, 89, 92 93, 107, 149 150,171, 179, 195HOLISTIC APPROACH. 31HOME CARE.68, 153HOME CARE SERVICES.69, 71 72, 157,159, 161, 163, 165 ^166, 169, 174 75, 177HOME VISITS. 32,69,71 73, 114, 117, 147,150 153, 159 166, 169, 174 177, 186HOMELESS PERSONS. 34,60,167HOMOSEXUALS. 181, 183HOSPICES. 54,56,65, 185HOSPITAL PERSONNEL. 56,65,101HOSPITALS.19, 34, 53, 56,65, 70, 79, 97,101, 103, 111, 127 128, 198HOTLINES.27, 61, 77, 138, 144HOUSEHOLD INJURIES. 187HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS.34,51,60, 181 183HUMAN MOTIVATION.63, 135, 181HYPERTENSION.18,96 98, 100 101, 103 104, 106HYSTERECTOMY. 86ILLINOIS.14, 18, 33, 38, 43, 86, 130, 154,202IMMIGRANTS. 197IMMUNIZATION.6, 15, 168, 170 171, 176IMMUNIZATION PROGRAMS. 15,48INCENTIVES. 173, 190INCOME. 41,54, 119INDEPENDENT LIVING. 108INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE. 20INDIANA. 154INDIGENOUS HEALTH PRACTICES.83,110, 148INDIGENOUS HEALTH SERVICES.3 4,26, 28, 41, 110, 150, 161, 163, 165 166, 169,174 175, 177, 189, 195 196INDIGENOUS HEALTH SERVICES. 5, 66,69, 78, 96INDTVIDUALAUTONOMY. 139INDIVIDUALIZED INSTRUCTION. 68INFANT MORTALITY. 154 156, 176INFANT NUTRITION. 145 146INFANTS. 6, 111, 69, 145 146, 163, 165 166,168 169, 174 175, 177INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.30, 84,118, 197INJURY PREVENTION. 153INNER CITY.43, 85, 93, 96, 100, 150 151,187166Subject IndexINSERVICE TRAINING.96, 196,202INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS.15, 23,91, 145 146, 148, 153INSULIN. 109INTENTION. 130INTERAGENCY COOPERATION.7, 16,154 158, 188INTERNATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAMS.6INTERPERSONAL SKILLS. 50INTERVENTION STRATEGIES.4, 8, 14,18, 20, 24, 31 33, 38, 42, 49, 56, 73, 82, 85, 86,88 89,91, 100 102, 107, 113, 132 133, 137,139, 141, 143, 147, 149 150, 152 153, 160,162, 164, 179, 183, 186 187, 193, 200INTERVIEWS.30, 37, 47 48, 53, 57, 59, 63,65, 72, 78, 85, 125, 128, 151, 188, 198JOB SATISFACTION. 41,54 55JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS.137, 141JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS. 139KENTUCKY. 76KNOWLEDGE MEASUREMENTS. 112,118, 130, 142, 146,200LANGUAGE BARRIERS. 197LAY HEALTH ADVISORS. 1 55, 58 62, 64,66 70, 71 74, 76 80, 82, 85, 87 92, 94, 96, 98 101, 105 106, 108 110, 114 138, 143 146, 148 149, 152 157, 159 161, 163, 165 167, 169, 171,174 178, 180 186, 188 199,201 202LAY HEALTH INITIATIVES. 15, 37, 62, 81,189LECTURES. 130LEGAL ISSUES.7, 12LIFESTYLE. 78, 94 95LIKERT SCALE. 37, 64LISTENING SKILLS. 50LITERATURE REVIEWS. 42,61,69,78,147, 174, 196LONG TERM CARE.58, 129LOUISIANA. 154, 18LOW INCOME GROUPS.5, 18, 20, 22, 25,29, 32, 38, 43, 47 48, 66, 68, 72, 76, 81 82, 85 86, 89, 91, 96, 117 120, 145 149, 151 152, 160,162, 173, 184, 187, 193LUNG CANCER. 94MALES. 100, 183MAMMOGRAPHY. 15, 83 88, 91, 93MANAGED CARE.20, 34, 36, 158MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT. 5MANPOWER RESOURCES. 5MARYLAND.72, 97, 100, 103, 113, 154,182, 199MASS MEDIA. 84167Subject IndexMASS SCREENING. 102MASSACHUSETTS. 31,39,62,101MASTECTOMY. 90MATERNAL AND INFANT HEALTH. 6, 17,32, 34, 49, 71, 146 158, 160, 162, 168, 170 172, 178, 178, 186MEDICAID. 158MEDICAL COSTS. 1,20MEDICAL INSURANCE. 151MEDICAL RECORDS. 39, 98MEDICAL SCHOOLS. 62MEDICALLY INDIGENT. 15, 162MENTAL HEALTH.17 18, 24, 61, 67, 77,121, 144, 190MENTAL HEALTH EDUCATIONPROGRAMS. 189MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.64, 77,115, 121, 189, 191, 193 194, 196 198MENTAL ILLNESS. 115, 194META ANALYSIS. 67MEXICO. 2MICHIGAN.30, 121, 148, 151MIDWIVES. 6MIGRANT WORKERS. 13, 171, 179MILITARY PERSONNEL. 57MINNESOTA. 115, 126, 137MINORITY GROUPS 12, 18 20, 22, 26, 29,31,38, 40 42, 47, 54, 66, 71, 79, 82 85, 87 89,91 93, 95, 98, 100, 103, 107,1 10,1 12 1 13,117 119, 122, 148 159, 167, 179 180, 182, 184,187, 191, 195, 197MISSISSIPPI. 119, 183MISSOURI. 82MOBILE HEALTH UNITS. 170MODELS.3, 5, 7, 46, 60, 89, 91, 100, 103,116, 148, 168, 183, 188MORBIDITY. 103MORTALITY. 103MORTALITY. 91MOTHER CHILD RELATIONS. 73MOTHERS. Ill, 145 146, 150, 167, 172NATIONAL HEALTH PLANNING. 177NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY. 177NATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAMS. 166,177NATIONAL POLICY. 177NATIVE AMERICANS.19, 40, 44, 47, 95,108, 110, 191, 195NEBRASKA.144NEEDS ASSESSMENT.16, 18, 46, 53, 78,96, 116,151168Subject IndexNEW JERSEY.13, 26, 59, 96, 98,11 1,1 14,120, 160, 181, 188 189NEWSLETTERS. 16NONINSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETESMELLITUS.107 108NORTH CAROLINA. 87 88,91, 133, 171NURSE RESPONSIBILITY. 162NURSES.14 15, 26, 29, 45, 56 57, 60, 71, 86,101, 149, 167 168, 180, 184, 196NURSING EDUCATION. 38NURSING HOMES. 58NUTRITION.18, 51, 107, 112, 116, 119, 136NUTRITION EDUCATION.6, 17, 32, 68,72, 76, 84, 105, 110, 116, 145 146, 171 172NUTRITION EDUCATION PROGRAMS.68,72, 110 111, 136NUTRITIONISTS. 110OBESITY. 103OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH. 142OHIO. 140, 148, 176OKLAHOMA. 95OPINION LEADERS. 183ORAL CONTRACEPTION. 184ORAL HEALTH. 34, 76OREGON. 193OUTREACH. 1 2, 8, 10, 13 15, 18, 20 21, 23,29, 30 34, 38, 42, 47, 73, 76, 79 80, 82, 86 87,90,93,96,98, 100, 110, 116, 118 119, 139,141, 147 150, 152, 157, 160, 167, 171 172,176, 178, 186, 188OVARIAN CANCER. 94PAPANICOLAOU SMEAR TESTS.83 86,93PARASITIC INFECTIONS. 76PARENT CHILD RELATIONS. 105, 153,186PARENT EDUCATION. 38,73, 153PARENT EDUCATION PROGRAMS.32,39, 152, 153, 160, 172PARENT PARTICIPATION.39, 186, 193PARENTS.18, 39, 105, 153, 164PATIENT COMPLIANCE.66, 83, 101 102,189PATIENT EDUCATION.53, 103, 107PATIENT EDUCATION 53PATIENT EDUCATION MATERIALS. 15PATIENT RESPONSIBILITY. 101PATIENT SATISFACTION. 122, 198PATIENTS.56, 65, 100, 192, 196PEDIATRICS. 70PEER COUNSELING.77, 87, 131, 133, 135,140, 144 146, 182,201 202169Subject IndexPEER COUNSELORS.8, 22, 30 31, 42, 88,121, 132, 138, 144 146, 167,200PEER EDUCATION.23, 46, 76, 87, 91 92,100, 105, 130 131, 134, 136PEER EDUCATORS.8, 22 23, 30 31, 39, 42,46, 63, 76, 83 84, 88, 91 92, 105, 130 131, 134,137, 142 143, 167, 179 180, 182, 184PEER GROUPS. 137PEER PRESSURE. 137PEER RELATIONSHIPS. 130PENNSYLVANIA.68, 187PERINATAL CARE. 147, 186PERSONALITY ASSESSMENT. 54,98,135, 138, 199PHENCYCLIDINE. 201PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.75, 106PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS. 86PHYSICAL FITNESS. 51, 75PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS. 40PHYSICIAN PATIENT RELATIONS.8,148PHYSICIANS.19, 26, 29, 44, 168POLICY MAKING. 20, 58POLITICAL ACTION. 177POSTERS. 89POVERTY.81, 119, 167PREGNANCY. 145 146, 149, 153, 167, 176PREGNANT WOMEN.6, 32, 71, 147, 149,150, 152 153, 160, 162, 167, 176, 178 179, 186PREMATURE INFANTS. 167PRENATAL CARE.6, 19, 32, 147, 149 152,160, 162, 167, 170 171, 173, 176, 178 179, 186PRESCHOOL CHILDREN. 164PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES.12,28, 32, 49, 79, 110, 150, 160, 164, 170, 179,186PRIMARY HEALTH CARE.6, 10, 12, 14,18 19, 21, 24, 26, 33, 40, 44, 47, 70, 81, 150,171PROBLEM SOLVING. 9,71PROFESSIONAL COOPERATION. 18, 34,202PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION. 5,16 17,23 25, 33, 40, 45 46, 96, 110, 140, 145, 164,178, 188, 192, 197, 201 202PROGRAM COORDINATION. 155, 157 158PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT.2 3, 6 7, 10,16, 20, 21, 28, 35, 39, 46, 52 53, 57 58, 60, 75,78, 81 82, 87, 89, 93, 99, 103, 116 118, 120 121, 132, 136, 151, 154 157, 165, 168, 170 171, 175, 177, 188, 190170Subject IndexPROGRAM EVALUATION.3 4, 7, 18, 20,24, 26, 28, 34, 37, 39, 41, 46, 49, 57 58, 60 61,68 69, 72, 74 75, 78, 82, 87, 89,1 1 1 1 12,1 14,116 117, 120 121, 130 136, 144, 146, 145 157161, 136 164, 166 170, 173 174, 179, 190, 192,196, 198,202PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT.20, 161, 169,174PROGRAM PLANNING.15 16, 32, 35, 52,58, 99, 103, 160, 165, 168, 175, 177PROGRAM REPLICATION. 16, 34 35PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS. 30,141PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH. 63PSYCHOSOCIAL FACTORS.90, 128, 141,147, 184PUBLIC EDUCATION.84, 88 89, 91, 185PUBLIC HEALTH. 11, 36, 147, 151, 162, 178PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENTS.86,96, 168, 176, 178, 187PUBLIC HEALTH NURSES. 38, 66, 70PUBLIC POLICY. 177PUBLIC SUPPORT. 156QUALITATIVE METHODS. 182QUALITY ASSURANCE. 24QUALITY OF LIFE. 20,128QUANTITATIVE METHODS.1 82QUESTIONNAIRES.13, 27, 48, 53, 57, 59,64,71,74, 105, 114,130,133 134, 139,141,143, 164, 170, 182, 190RADIO. 84RECOMMENDATIONS.1, 38, 55, 177, 194RECRUITMENT OF PARTICIPANTS.8,16, 23, 53, 59, 92, 122 123, 126, 129, 181REFERRAL SERVICES. 10, 21, 90, 100,101, 176, 193, 197 198REFUGEES. 197REHABILITATION. 108RELAXATION METHODS. 50RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.28, 34,46,60,78,87,93,99, 113RESEARCH.4, 11, 13, 22, 25, 30 31, 37, 40 42, 47, 54 56, 59, 61, 63 65, 67 68, 70 72, 74,77, 83 85, 87, 89, 91 93, 197 98, 00 101, 105,107, 112 115, 118 120, 122, 124 1126, 128,130 139, 141, 143 144, 147, 151 152, 160, 162,164, 170, 173, 179, 181 184, 187, 190, 192 196, 198 200RESEARCH PROGRAMS. 4RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT. 58,115RESOURCE ALLOCATION.6, 10, 21, 118RESOURCE MATERIALS.8, 19, 20, 23, 31,46,91, 148, 153RESPIRATORY DISEASES ANDDISORDERS. 66171Subject IndexRETENTION OF PARTICIPANTS.59, 92,181RETIREMENT.53, 122 123, 125 126RHEUMATIC DISEASES. 39RHODE ISLAND. 39RISK FACTOR INTERVENTION.1, 18, 13,21 22, 72, 81, 98 99, 102 103, 105, 119, 137,147, 149 150, 152, 160, 162, 164, 182, 186 187,200RISK REDUCTION.1 12RISK REDUCTION PROGRAMS.95, 99,140, 154 156, 183ROLE DEFINITION.1, 17, 20, 38ROLE MODELS.84, 92, 105, 180ROLE PLAYING. 37,190RURAL ENVIRONMENT ANDPOPULATION.13, 15, 19, 34, 44, 47, 59, 71 72,76,91, 119, 125, 143 143SAFETY EDUCATION. 187SANITATION. 43, 68SCHIZOPHRENIA. 115SCHOOL COMMUNITY COOPERATION.103SCHOOL COMMUNITY COOPERATION.132, 142SCHOOL DROPOUTS. 141SCHOOL HEALTH EDUCATION. 105, 130,132, 134, 139, 141, 143SCHOOLS. 139SCOTLAND. 159SCREENING.15, 18, 52, 76, 83 89, 91, 93 95,98 101, 104, 142SCREENING BEHAVIOR. 83 88,91,93,102SELF BLOOD GLUCOSE MONITORING.107, 109SELF CARE.56, 78, 107SELF CONCEPT.26, 133 134, 150SELF EFFICACY.13, 30, 100, 130SELF HELP. 113SELF REPORTING.27, 139, 141SEX BEHAVIOR. 130, 134, 182SEX EDUCATION. 130, 134SEX EDUCATION PROGRAMS. 130, 134SEX FACTORS.54, 125, 135, 138SEX ROLES. 44SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES.51, 176SICKLE CELL ANEMIA. 76SKILLS DEVELOPMENT.17, 25, 33, 139,172172Subject IndexSKILLS DEVELOPMENT 33, 73SKIN CANCER. 142 43SMOKING. 103, 105 106SMOKING CESSATION. 51SMOKING CESSATION PROGRAMS. 113SMOKING EDUCATION. 105SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT. 114SOCIAL FACTORS. 25, 30, 55, 84, 87SOCIAL INFLUENCES. 167, 183SOCIAL ISOLATION.1 14SOCIAL LEARNING THEORY. 63SOCIAL MARKETING. 84SOCIAL PARTICIPATION. 53,56,65,83,100, 107,114 116, 121 126, 129, 137, 139, 147,152, 159 161, 163 165, 169, 174 175, 181, 186,191, 196, 191SOCIAL SUPPORT.4, 8, 32, 44, 53, 56, 65,71,90 91SOCIAL WORK.53, 116SOCIAL WORKERS.53, 56, 60, 117, 180SOCIOCULTURAL PATTERNS. 148SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS.59, 72, 103,119 120SOUTH CAROLINA.99,154STAFF DEVELOPMENT. 81,175STANDARDS AND CRITERIA. 45STATE HEALTH PROGRAMS.34, 158,171STATE POLICY. 20STRESS FACTORS. 44, 56, 65, 167, 181STRESS MANAGEMENT. 50STROKE.96, 98 99, 106STUDENT PARTICIPATION. 132 133, 135SUBSTANCE ABUSE. 17 18, 34SUBURBAN ENVIRONMENTANDPOPULATION. 118SUICIDE.61, 198SUN EXPOSURE. 142 143SUNSCREENING AGENTS. 142SUPPORT GROUPS. 14, 18, 38, 83, 91, 167SURVEILLANCE. 44SURVEYS. 22,40,47,78, 118, 136, 142, 170,183TARGET GROUPS.20, 23, 91, 142, 157TEACHERS. 105,1TEACHING GUIDES. 50 51,94, 106, 109TEACHING MODULES 33,50 51, 94, 106,109TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. 21173Subject IndexTELEPHONE SERVICES.27, 61, 64, 144TELEPHONE SURVEYS.83, 105, 126TELEVISION. 84TENNESSEE. 77TERMINAL ILLNESS. 56, 65TESTS AND MEASUREMENTS. 27, 68TEXAS.49, 54, 84, 107, 149 150, 173THEORIES.25, 123TRACKING SYSTEMS. 149TRAINING MANUALS.17,148,153TRAINING PROGRAMS.1, 3, 5 6, 11, 16 17, 19 20, 23 27, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45 56, 49, 52,55, 57, 60 62, 64, 66, 74, 76 77, 88, 91, 93, 98,108, 117, 121, 131, 137, 144 146, 153, 171 172, 175, 178, 182 183, 189 190, 192, 194 197,199TRANSPORTATION. 87TREATMENT PROGRAMS. 37,62,115,124, 201 202UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES.1, 9, 15,20,31,34 36,38,89,93, 167UNITED STATES.2, 36, 108, 159, 168, 170URBAN ENVIRONMENT ANDPOPULATION.14, 18, 25, 29 30, 33, 38, 43,48, 73, 81 82, 85 86, 93, 97, 1101, 112, 114,116 117, 120, 149, 178, 185VALUE SYSTEMS. 130, 133VIDEOTAPES.37, 85, 91, 107, 190VIOLENCE. 14VIRGINIA. 145 146VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS. 7,21,53, 56, 65, 90, 122 123, 125 126, 129, 181,185, 188VOLUNTEERS.7, 10, 16, 23, 27 28, 45 46,48, 52 65, 74 76, 79, 84, 90 91, 93, 104,1 14 117, 119 120, 122 129, 133, 135, 137 139, 141,149 150, 173, 176, 181, 185, 188, 190, 192,194, 198 199, 202WASHINGTON.74, 191WEIGHT CONTROL. 76WEIGHT CONTROL PROGRAMS. 112WELL BABY CLINICS. 173WELLNESS. 75, 89WHITES. 54, 122WISCONSIN. 142 143, 188WOMEN'S HEALTH.50 51, 83, 85, 87 89,93 94, 106, 109, 145 146WOMEN'S HEALTH PROGRAMS. 145,146WORKSHOPS.17, 112, 130, 168WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION. 14174SECTION IICommunity Health Advisors/Workers: Volume IIISelected Annotations and ProgramsJune 1998Section IIContentsI.Cancer179II.Cardiovascular Disease197m.Diabetes213IV.Health Promotion and Disease Prevention219V.Maternal and Child Health265VI.Nutrition287VH.Quality of Life291VIH.Sexual Behavior295EX.Substance Abuse305X.Tobacco Control309XI.Training Programs313INDEXESProgram Title Index325Program Coordinator Index329Subject Index331177Community Health Advisors: Programs in the United StatesHealth Promotion and Disease PreventionProgram DescriptionsCancer203Program•Best Chance Network.Contact•Nickerson, Brenda.Agency•South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control,Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, Box 101106, Columbia,SC 29211. (803)737 3934.Program Dates•1991 continuing.Delivery Sites•Private physicians' offices, primary health care centers, hospitaloutpatient clinics, mammography facilities.Funding Source(s)•Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Primary Purpose•To reduce breast and cervical cancer by providing comprehensiveprevention and control services to women in South Carolina.Services Offered•Outreach workers contact women (one on one and in small groups) toeducate them about breast and cervical cancer; they also providefollow up to women diagnosed with abnormalities.Materials Used•Educational instruction and materials for the community, patients, andprofessionals.Health Topic(s) Addressed•Breast and cervical cancer.Geographic Area/Unit•State.Target Population•Uninsured and underinsured women who are income eligible (up to250 percent of the poverty level), particularly minority women andwomen aged 50 years and older.CHA Title•Outreach workers.CHID Accession Number•CP94P0449.179CancerProgramContactAgencyProgram DatesDelivery SitesFunding Source(s)Primary PurposeServices OfferedMaterials UsedHealth Topic(s) AddressedGeographic Area/UnitProgram SettingTarget PopulationCHA TitleCHA RolesCHA TrainingCHA CompensationNumber ofCHA'sNumber of ClientsServed in 12 Months204Breast and Cervical Cancer Education.Carcar, Noemi.Mercy Mobile Health Care, 60 11th Street, Atlanta, GA 30309.(404)249 8104.March1 995 continuing.Homes, community sites, hospital/medical clinic.Fannie Mae Foundation, Avon Foundation.To educate low income Hispanic and Asian American women aboutearly detection of breast and cervical cancer to make referrals forclinical examinations.Patient outreach and education, cancer detection tests.Shower cards, handouts/brochures, breast model, cervix model.Breast and cervical cancer.Multicounty.Community based agency, religious institution, hospital.Low income Hispanic and Asian American women living in a five county area in Georgia.Outreach worker, resource specialist.Outreach, health promotion/education, follow up.40 hours of initial training and 1 hour per month of inservice training.$8.50 per hour plus health insurance, tuition reimbursement, andmileage reimbursement.3.1,053.180CancerEvaluation Plan•Yes.Methods Used to•Networking with community based organizations, internal posting ofRecruit CHA'sjob opportunities, word of mouth.Methods Used to•Educational opportunities, health benefits.Retain CHA'sMethods Used to•Outreach/education, clinical services.Recruit ClientsMethods Used to•Case management follow up, employee dedication and persistence.Retain ClientsCHID Accession Number•CP96P0481.181Cancer205Program•Chicago Ethnic Communities Breast Cancer Education andScreening Outreach.Contact•Rodin, Miriam B.Agency•Northwestern University, McGaw Medical Center, Buehler Center onAging, Suite 601, 750 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL 60611 2611.(312)503 2560.Program Dates•July 1996 continuing.Delivery Sites•Community.Funding Source(s)•U.S. Army Materiel Command, Illinois Department of Public Health.Primary Purpose•To increase awareness of and adherence to breast cancer screeningguidelines among immigrant, refugee, and selected underservedethnic women.Services Offered•Native language training in women's health, breast cancer facts,breast and cervical cancer screening guidelines, on breast self examination, techniques for health behavior change.Materials Used•Flash cards on breast cancer and how to perform breast self examination.Health Topic(s) Addressed•Breast and cervical cancer, women's health, health behavior change.Geographic Area/Unit•City.Program Setting•Medical school.Target Population•Low income uninsured and underinsured women aged 25 years andolder.CHA Title•Peer educator.CHA Roles•Transmit knowledge, skills, and